ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u1	(...). We will have a topical debate on Iran. The second topical debate concerns the Foreign Terrorist Fighters. I fear that we will not get any further today either. We shall await the end of the first debate. After all, the Minister should leave at 5 p.m. Normally, in a topical debate, a two-minute speaking time per question applies. However, there are also Members who have tabled various questions. Of course, they get more room. However, given the current situation, we shall consider whether everyone can keep to that speaking time. However, try to make the debate interesting, not by spreading for too long, but by speaking to the point, as a lot of questions have been put. The first questioner is Mr Ben Accour. He has two questions. I propose that these two questions be grouped together. Mr Ben Accour, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u2	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish you a good and happy year 2020. It opens up to a dangerous acceleration of history. You will therefore understand, minister, that my remarks are overflowing with the text originally tabled several weeks ago. The situation in the Middle East is particularly complex. Before I get to the heart of the matter, I would like to make some preliminary comments. First, it seems to me essential, in order to understand the events well, not to lose sight of the genealogy of the sequence that culminates today in violence. As we go up the thread of this sequence, we must keep in mind that it began with the unilateral exit of the United States from the Vienna Agreement. Indeed, it is important to retain it, because the situation began to degenerate from that moment on. Secondly, I would like to recall that the action of the United States against an official of a sovereign country has been a first since the Second World War. The only precedent was an act aimed at a Japanese dignitary. From this point of view, we can all be interlocked by the methods used by President Trump and denounce his belligerent attitude. Thirdly, it is obvious to us that General Soleimani was at the head of a network of militias whose action proved to be extremely harmful in the region, particularly in Syria. He had on his conscience the death of thousands of civilians, especially during the siege of Aleppo, which showed itself to be unnamed brutal and cruel. More recently, there was repression – extremely fierce, too – against his own fellow citizens in Iran. His action was therefore characterized by a mixture of defensive paranoia – in line with Iran's encirclement syndrome – and an imperialist dynamic of the same country. That had to be said. That being said, what is the current situation? The situation is particularly confusing and unpredictable. That's why I wouldn't risk scaffolding counter prognosis. On the other hand, it is certain that Donald Trump's decisions are likely to lead to undesirable or paradoxal effects. I'll mention a few of them. The first is the risk of weakening the fight against Daesh, increasing and reborn American sentiment. On Sunday afternoon, the Iraqi Parliament adopted a resolution calling for the departure of foreign troops. This, of course, would considerably weaken the fight against the Islamic State, even if – let us remain lucid – it is unlikely that the departure of these troops will take place in the short term. Second unwanted effect: it is possible that Iran will gain from this sequence by strengthening its position in Iraq where the anti-Iranian voices that had spoken out during the autumn and early winter are also weakened. Thirdly, even if Iran does not give the impression that it has accelerated its rate of disengagement every sixty days, Iran announced a further step towards the exit of its commitments under the Vienna Agreement. However, I do not have the impression that the rate of exit has accelerated, careful observers will have noted that Iran has not crossed the 20 per cent uranium enrichment course and has continued to ensure that its sites are accessible to International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) agents. Climbing remains measured and does not break the pace since the summer. Another undesirable and paradoxical effect is the weakening of popular opposition, both in Iraq and Iran, as well as the weakening of all those who, in Iran for years, have wagered the bet of diplomacy and international law. Today, the voices of the moderates of the regime who, for years, have stood up to the hard of the regime by making this bet, are no longer audible. They're the ones who took their hands. Finally, with regard to Iraq, the return of confessionalism has not escaped anyone. On Sunday afternoon, the Iraqi MPs who voted in favour of the resolution calling for the departure of foreign troops were Shiite MPs. Only two Sunni MPs ensured a quorum, but the other Sunnis and Kurds did not participate in the vote. On the other hand, the Iranian response of that night seems to me to be relatively measured, despite the speeches of Iranian officials. We have the impression that Iran has sent the message upstream to avoid maximum damage. Indeed, Iraqi officials have been warned of the imminent attacks and the material and, in any case, human damage is quite limited. That's for the Iranian response. Regarding the Iraqi response, some militia leaders said that it was still to come. I turn to the threats of war crimes made by Donald Trump, who are completely incomprehensible. Nor will I dwell on the confusion, which occurred on Sunday evening, of the letter sent by an American general to his Iraqi counterparts, which has been denied. All these elements are part of the confusion. In this context, Minister, we have heard your call for de-escalation and the return of diplomacy, and we obviously join in this call. However, the real question in my view – beyond this objective – is that of the method. What are the means we want to use to achieve this goal – especially with a view to sustainable de-escalation. The aim is not simply to get out of this complicated sequence in order to return to the previous situation, but to control the causes that led us to this situation, and the heart of the solution lies in the rescue of the Vienna agreement. At least the principles and objectives of this agreement must be safeguarded. The Vienna agreement was negotiated for more than twelve years by the international community, it was concluded in 2015 and then, in May 2018, Donald Trump decides to leave. As I said in advance, this has been the starting point for all the problems we are experiencing and are debating today. It is therefore necessary to save this agreement by being aware that the Iranian interlocutor is in a particular situation. The Vienna Agreement was a balance between costs and benefits. Iran allowed its nuclear programme to be controlled in exchange for the lifting of economic sanctions, which would allow it to breathe economically and join the concert of nations. When Donald Trump came out of the Vienna agreement, he broke that balance. Iran finds itself in a situation where the international community continues to tell it to honour its commitments, but not only the benefits of these commitments have disappeared, but they must also be subjected to extreme and radical sanctions, which are reflected in the United States' policy of maximum pressure. I believe that Europe has a major role to play. I repeat what I said in the interesting debate we had here about INSTEX in September: Europe must be able to embody a real alternative, that is to say, to propose to Iran ways to guarantee the benefits that were associated with the fulfilment of its commitments. In my view, it is in vain to tell Iran not to step out of its commitments if it is not offered to maintain the benefits associated with this agreement in return. Europe must once again be the guarantor of this balance. This, in my opinion, requires a great deal of hindrance to Donald Trump's own policy, which is dangerous and very adventurous. The question of the extraterritoriality of US sanctions will also have to be asked. It does not seem normal to me that when the United States decides to impose sanctions on a third country, the entire international community should be obliged to do so. We must find a way to circumvent this extraterritoriality of sanctions and free ourselves from Donald Trump's adventurous and destabilizing policy. The crisis here gives Europe an opportunity to assert itself, to have another voice. But once again, simply saying "de-escalation, return to diplomacy" will not be enough. We must give content to this speech. Giving content is tantamount to giving Iran economic prospects. Otherwise, we will cause the effects contrary to our original objectives. Yesterday I came back to an Iranian member of parliament close to President Rohani, who was said to be moderate, saying: "It's no use anymore. Iran must now get out of the non-proliferation treaty." A dangerous dynamic is really being put in place. Again, to ease the situation, our diplomacy needs content. Iran must be given opportunities comparable to those of the Treaty of Vienna.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u3	Madam Chair, Minister, this is the first time I have spoken to you as a minister. Let me first warmly congratulate you on your appointment. In addition, this is the first time a Huy-Waremman has been appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence. So receive my congratulations! Let me also present to you, as well as to your entire administration and the FPS Foreign Affairs, my best wishes for this year 2020, which will be decisive at the international level, particularly for our action in the Security Council. Minister, on January 3, US President Donald Trump launched a murderous raid, a drone assassination, against Iranian General Qassem Soleimani. Soleimani was obviously a monster. There is no doubt at this level. But he was also one of the highest ranks of the Iranian army. The next day, as we know, Trump, with his usual Twitter communication, again threatened 52 targets, including UNESCO-listed cultural sites in Iran. The United States has also recently refused the visa of the Iranian Foreign Minister, which is necessary for him to attend the Security Council meeting tomorrow in New York. My colleague Mr. Ben Achour was right when he said he was interlocked by the situation. I want to go even further, and to be very frank and firm in international law. For it was indeed a pure and simple violation, the jus ad bellum, the right to wage war. Trump's aggression violated Article 2, § 4 of the Charter of the United Nations, which is, however, very clear. There were no grounds for self-defence, referred to in Article 51 of the same Charter, and there was no authorization from the Iraqi government to target this high-ranking Iranian army officer. I come to threats on Iranian cultural sites. Like Mr. As Ben Achour said, it must be said that these crimes would constitute war crimes, in accordance with the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property, signed in The Hague in 1954, but also in accordance with American law. The War Crimes Act 1996 prohibits the targeting of these cultural sites. The Security Council has also recently recalled this, notably in Resolution No. 2347 of March 2017. There is no doubt: Trump's unilateral operation has violated all the rules of international law. It may seem a little tedious and pompous to remind you, but I think it's important to do so. I have read the common statement of our allies – France, Great Britain and Germany – and have been saddened not to find a single line about the role of the United States and the unilateral action completely illegal at the international level, but also at the American domestic level of President Trump. The least thing between allies, particularly within NATO, is to respect one another and to speak frankly. Recently, when Turkey invaded north-east Syria, also in a unilateral operation, defying all the international rules of humanitarian law, your predecessor, Minister Reynders, summoned the Turkish ambassador to tell him that this operation was illegal and unacceptable to us, also politically. Did you summon the American ambassador? If you don't, I hope you do it to tell him that this kind of action is burning up the powders. Legally, but also geopolitically, Trump's act was pure madness. Retaliation was not delayed, as we saw last night with the firing of 22 missiles on American bases. Some Belgian soldiers are still in Iraq. In a resolution, the Iraqi Parliament called for the withdrawal of all foreign forces from the territory, including the Belgians. More serious for our security, Iran is questioning the applicability of the Vienna Agreement on Iranian nuclear power. We are well aware of the disastrous consequences for international security and for the European Union. Minister, I would like to ask you five questions that I think are crucial. What contacts have you undertaken in the region? Did you meet with your Iraqi counterpart to remind him of Belgium's commitment to the security and sovereignty of Iraq? I know that the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs has announced that he has invited the Iranian Foreign Minister to Brussels. I wonder what position this High Representative will take. I also wonder if there is still a small window of opportunity to accentuate, at all costs, diplomacy with Iran and, in particular, to be able to enforce the Vienna agreement on Iran's nuclear programme – the famous Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPoA). I am thinking in particular of the European INSTEX programme which we approved in this House a few weeks ago. I hope that such a system can also prove to the Iranians the economic interest of maintaining this agreement. I also wonder what is Belgium's political but also legal position on the murder – and I am weighing my words – of Qassem Soleimani. A Foreign Affairs Council is taking place this Friday. I very much hope that Belgium will be firmer than France, the United Kingdom and Germany who have already spoken. My fourth question concerns the threat to the foundations of the international coalition in Iraq. What impact could the escalation of tensions with Iran have on our military involvement on the ground in Iraq? There is also an important point to mention in terms of regional stability. We need to reflect on the impact of these tensions on other conflicts in the region. I am thinking of Yemen but also, and above all, Syria. This Friday, 10 January, will mark the end of the Security Council resolution authorizing cross-border humanitarian assistance in north-eastern Syria. What will be the action of the United Nations Security Council of which Belgium is a member? I hope, of course, that this cross-border humanitarian aid can be maintained in the future. Finally, we had a little hope a few weeks ago of a de-escalation of tensions between Iran and Saudi Arabia, these two large Gulf blocs. Belgium played a role and our Belgian diplomats visited the region. Could Belgium not reactivate its peace dialogue efforts as soon as possible in order to really work towards the de-escalation of tensions in the region, for example by organising a Gulf Peace Conference between Saudi Arabia and Iran?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u4	Minister, my initial question of 3 December last year concerned the situation in Iran, where there was a lot of turmoil - even among the population - and a lot of responses and authoritarian actions on the part of the regime in place. But given the evolution of recent weeks, I will also be able to bounce back on the news. The least we can say, and I agree with the brilliant history of my colleagues, is that this attack on General Soleimani has helped to strengthen the unity of the Iranian people and their resentment towards the United States. Since then, it is true, the information fumes and sometimes contradicts each other. It is not obvious to filter and analyze them to allow a correct and useful analysis of events. My speech will deal in particular with the Vienna Agreement. Belgium and, more broadly, the European Union had made a broad commitment to the Vienna agreement so that the international community would accept its achievements, despite the fact that the United States had already withdrawn from it, I would like to recall. The EU has always weighed its weight in this direction, if it is possible to call it a little bit of a report - a remark that, as a parliamentarian, I can afford to do so. Minister, my first question relates to our country's desire to de-escalate the conflict through our diplomacy. It seems to me that our influence would be much more important if we could speak with one strong voice at European level in order to have a real influence in this desired process of de-escalation. What could be our means of restraint and argumentation? So far, what is the state of our diplomatic relations with the United States and the Islamic Republic of Iran? Has this topic been and will it be discussed in the Council of European Ministers with a view to determining a common position? Then, how do we qualify last night's attack? Mr. Ben Achour spoke of the possibility of a proportional offensive. According to some, because of its predictability, it would rather be a kind of media hit. According to CNN, the United States does not report any casualties in Erbil, while Iran reports 88 deaths. We must therefore be able to filter out useful information. And then, another priority, Minister, we need to be concerned about the safety of our military and our citizens. This is the advantage of having the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence in one person, as more proposals can be submitted to him. If the Iraqi Parliament were to call for the withdrawal of American forces, have we measured the consequences for our 25 remaining soldiers in Baghdad? What are the solutions? Are we going to repatriate our soldiers? I am also very concerned about the situation in Syria. At the beginning of next week, we may be witnessing a suspension of operations against Daesh. Minister, what are the timetable and nature of the actions planned? What is the danger of loosening the knot around the snake's neck, which I believe is the Islamic State? Are we going to put an end to anti-Daesh military operations? Will this decision be followed by political measures to win back the minds and hearts of the predominantly Sunni population, as in Iraq? That is a question I would like to ask in order to obtain some clarification. I would also like to know whether we have had any requests for contributions to the operation to secure navigation in the Strait of Ormuz. As we know, the French minister spent her New Year's Eve at European headquarters to avoid alignment with US policy, and was in contact with French, Dutch and Danish boats. Are we also going to participate in these operations? We are also talking about an Iranian presence in Africa. This immediately evokes the dangers that other Western countries also fear. Do we have more information about this? Would we be able to know the potential hazards upstream, if this de-escalation did not take place? We have 150 citizens in Iran. Of course, we are also concerned about them, if we are not able to hinder the escalation process. They could become new targets for the Islamic Republic of Iran. Do you, on a more practical level, through your Foreign Affairs Administration, have any advice to give to Belgians who would like to visit the regions concerned? In the coming weeks and months, further conferences were planned at the international level, particularly with regard to the stabilization of the region, as Mr Cogolati had mentioned. Several initiatives had been undertaken. Will we be able to continue our efforts to achieve our most dearest wish, namely the stabilization of Syria and Iraq? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u5	Minister, I will not repeat everything that has been mentioned by my colleagues, but it is clear that the conflict has arisen through the termination of the nuclear deal by President Trump. Today's style has also led to an escalation of the conflict. We can say there are hawks on both sides. For them it is more important how they handle things, and so they say rather than what they say and deal with it. The mutual discord is expressed in aggressive tweets, a new style that we must now take into account in international conflicts. Mutual harassment is met by bombing. This style of course also leads to a dangerous escalation. This has to do with the fact that national interests are involved in both countries, both in the US and in Iran. Trump stands for impeachment and election. There have been demonstrations and instability in Iran over the last few months, with 200,000 people arguing against rising fuel prices and defending their rights. Iran wants to use this conflict to strengthen nationalist interests and feelings. This context has already been sufficiently outlined by my colleague at regional level. The use of this style in national interests also leads to a dangerous cocktail, strengthening the instability of the region. There is a clear flare-up of the ethnic conflict, including in Iraq. The coalition against IS also appears to be falling apart. It is said that the EU is relatively weak in the region, but it also has advantages in not acting like an elephant in a porcelain shop. It has the advantage of being able to take on an international role as mediators. Everyone advocates dialogue and diplomacy. I believe that the European Union, by not leaving the nuclear deal, can be credible for Iran and for America by the fact that INSTEX was organised, because we are an ally in NATO. I think it is important that we play this role. From Belgium, too, we must call for this to take place instead of one side in this conflict. This can only lead to further instability in the region and the flare-up of the ethnic conflict in Iraq and to further terrorism, where IS can find a breeding ground, while the coalition has fought against it in this way. Those are all things that are very frightening. No one knows the outcome. Who will make it on the Iranian side, on the Iraqi side, on the American side? Will the moderates or the hawks make it? I think we should argue for moderation. A conflict so close to Europe's borders is not a good thing for us. The refugees will also come our way if this continues to escalate. We must also think about the people on the ground. I know you have a special Foreign Affairs Council on Friday. What position shall we defend there? Are we going for the mediation position? I think it is a good thing that we have not yet taken a position, but have clearly advocated diplomacy and negotiation. I believe that we should continue to do this and also take on a stronger mediation role on the international stage and the Middle East. How do you estimate the impact on stability in Iraq? There are tensions that used to exist but which are escalating as a result of the conflict in Iraq with the Sunnis, the Kurds, the Shiites. Who's gonna make it there? What is the attitude of the Iraqi Government today to the fact that the resolution was voted on in Parliament? I suspect that the current government in Iraq, which includes moderates, will regret this, as it has always kept the balance between the Iraqis and the Kurds, and between the Sunnis and the Shiites. My question now is: what will this create? How does the Iraqi Government view the resolution to withdraw US troops from Iraq? What is the impact in the region on the coalition against IS, which we absolutely must safeguard? It has created a clear stability because both Iran and Iraq were part of it, together with a number of Western countries. How do you estimate the impact on this coalition? Finally, I have a question concerning the JCPoA. The United States has quit. Of course, the Iranians are also getting off, but they still allow the International Atomic Energy Agency. Do you have any idea what this means in concrete terms on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u6	President: Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u7	Minister, I wish you all the best and I wish you every success. We need a state that functions properly in its sovereign matters. You did well to postpone your trip to the Congo because it would not have been understood that you were there in a situation that you yourself described as dangerous in terms of international security. Many questions have already been asked and I would like to review some of them. With regard to this American raid, the Trump administration advocates self-defence through Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, but it seems difficult to imagine that this article can be invoked in this case. We have not had an analysis on your part of the legality of this intervention under international law, nor on the part of any European government. How should this be interpreted? Is that a question you don't want to address today? What is your attitude in this regard? It is important that there is a clarification on the part of the Europeans. In the United States, the debate is taking place publicly, as the Democrats question this act. I believe that this debate can also take place at European level. It is also quite obvious that Soleimani himself is a troublemaker of war, unrest and criminal acts under international law. I do not automatically link with the origin of the climb, because this escalation has been known for many months, many years, with the Vienna agreement. In fact, we know that Iran supports, finances, develops a whole series of proxies, Shiite groups that wage proxy wars in the region with a desire to expel the Americans, NATO, and to strengthen its place in the region. It was Soleimani himself who made the trip to Moscow in 2015, before the Americans denounced the Vienna agreement, to bring the Russian armed forces to the aid of Bashar al-Assad. He himself has contributed very widely to the escalation that we see there today. But it is clear that today the situation is particularly dangerous. Beyond the question of legality, my second question concerns the situation on the ground. I wish you could tell us what you know about what happened in the last few days. Have you been informed by any of the new developments? If so, how have you been informed of these developments? Have you demanded that, as a result of the events, you be able to be informed, whether through NATO or through bilateral relations, of the initiatives that the Americans could take in the region? That seems important to me. Let me turn to my third question. What are the consequences for Belgians in the region? My information is not that there were 25 Belgians in Baghdad. My information is that there were only two. I would like to know what is the situation of our military there, whether in Baghdad or in northern Iraq. How do we coordinate with Europeans and NATO on the future presence of military personnel on the ground? I hear that the Germans are making a partial withdrawal of their forces, while the Italians and the French are not. Can we hope that at some point there will be European coordination, and perhaps even NATO, in relation to the current situation? What is your appreciation of the security issues and risks facing our staff? What about the civilians still on the ground? More fundamentally, we can have all the analyses we want about the actions of the Americans and Iranians, what is obvious, flagrant and shocking is the absence of Europe! We behave irresponsibly, and I weigh my words. We've been on the balcony for a very long time. We look and let it happen. We do not intervene and leave there a gap at the door of Europe in relation to a crisis – the war in Syria and the war in Iraq – which has affected us heavily for years and has fundamentally weakened the European project. And we are still deeply absent from this land today. This is a truly guilty position for Europe. It is time for us to be able to intervene, whether in the security, diplomacy or reconstruction of those States that have been heavily affected by the war. I have already had the opportunity to say this: when we have contributed, as we have done, to the partial defeat of the Islamic State, when we see the situation of big cities like Rakka or Mosul to the reconstruction that we have been and are still unable to participate in, we have an extremely important responsibility. It has long been known that regional powers such as Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Iran, or international powers such as the United States and Russia, have interests and agendas that do not match ours. Europe could, given its stature and'reputation', play an important role there. When you call for de-escalation, today, in the chancelleries of the Middle East, the Middle East and elsewhere, at best it makes you smile, at worst, it scandalizes. This is in no way a response to a genuine political capacity to deploy alternative means to what is happening on the ground. We have to get out of these positions that are useless, that do not help in any way. Concrete actions and actions must be taken. As I had already asked, what will be done, what can be done and what would Europe want to do about security? What will it do when the Americans, if they do, withdraw from that area? What will our diplomacy do to ensure that there is a sense in these populations that Europe is ready to play a role in stabilizing the region? Iraq has called for Europe to be rescued since the fall of the Islamic State, since the fall of Mosul in 2017. We have done absolutely nothing, except a few actions across the United Nations system. No effective strategy has been deployed on behalf of Europe in this country, either in terms of stability or reconstruction. That is what needs to be done today. We can complain about Donald Trump's completely erratic positions, we're not going to change the deal. It is not the debate here that will change Donald Trump's behavior. The important thing is to know what our country, as a member of the United Nations Security Council and a member of NATO at the heart of Europe, is going to do to change the situation in these countries. This is the real question, and it is the question of the interlocutors and diplomats who work in these countries. Today, in reality, they no longer expect anything from Europe, and that disappoints them. We got out of the game and we need to know how we're going to get back in the game to make sure that Iraq's implosion is avoided. Iraq is an extremely fragile country, coming out of four decades of war. He had finally won elections and a government. The Prime Minister is resigning, the President threatens to resign. Only Shia MPs have come to Parliament and there has not even been a vote on the departure of the Americans. All this indicates how imploding this country is. Our responsibility is to ensure that it does not implode definitively. With regard to the Vienna agreement, if the Iranians were to decide to get out of it, has a common European position already been reached? We know that this agreement is already partly violated, according to IAEA reports. If we were to come out of this agreement officially and there were to be no more IAEA inspections, what would be the position of the Europeans? Finally, how do you assess the nature of the threat on targets in Belgium? We know that Iranians have already carried out attacks in Europe. There was an attempt in 2018 in Paris but the authors had been arrested in the territory of my commune. I saw there were more soldiers in front of the U.S. Embassy. Is there an additional deployment of military personnel in Belgium? Is there a change in the threat in Belgium? Is there an impact on our FTFs detained in Iraq and Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u8	I too wish all those present the best for the new year. I hope it will be a healthy and safe year for everyone. Minister, the accumulation of incidents has had a number of consequences in recent times. The highlight was, of course, the recent American assassination of Iranian general Soleimani, who was in Iraq at the time. This has escalated. There was a threat of retaliation. As a blow to the flame, Iran conducted rocket attacks on two air bases in Iraq, Ain al-Assad and Erbil, where American soldiers also reside. Those attacks were claimed by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. They also warned against further attacks. Minister, I am addressing you as Minister of Defence. Mr Jadin has already said that this is a mess. It is now being asked that the American troops be withdrawn immediately. The Iranian Foreign Minister may say that he does not want a war and only defends himself against aggression, of course, in practice that is usually the same. The US, in turn, is considering a response to yesterday's attacks. This whole accumulation of incidents, of course, means that the conflict between the US and Iran and in the Middle East in general is at risk of further derailment. That's what the moods are all about. I come to a number of questions. Minister, what analysis have you made on the basis of the data currently available? Secondly, as an ally of the US, as a member of NATO and as a member of the UN Security Council, our country is willingly involved. In this context, I would like to know what consultations have taken place since the escalation at the end of last week. What position will Belgium take on this issue, not least in the NATO talks and in the consultations within the Security Council? I know that you were already present this morning in the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions. Can you also give an up-to-date overview of the Belgian armed forces present in Iraq in this committee? What about the further presence of our military in Iraq and in the region? Is the current scenario of sending Belgian F-16s to the Middle East under threat? Is this still being held back in these circumstances or is it being modified? If the American military were to be withdrawn from Iraq, what impact will that have on the ongoing military operations in which our country is also participating? How will we ensure the security of our citizens and our embassies in Iran and in the region? My last question actually covers everything that is currently going on. What will you, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also as Minister of Defence, take concrete action in the near future in this whole affair?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u9	Minister, I would like to welcome you to your first appearance here. I also offer my best wishes to all my colleagues. This morning I have already done so in another committee and I do not know when to stop doing so. Today, however, it will still be possible. Just like my predecessor, I won't be giving press reports of the past few days. However, I would just like to point out that President Trump's muscular intervention, which rightly raises questions from all sides, must protect us from lightly declaring Qassem Soleimani sacred and even closing a certain heroic status, because there are also media reports on this subject, for which I refer everyone to the truly specialized press. Maybe I can add that the name Al-Quds actually means Jerusalem, which in itself is significant about that man's real intention. Having said that, I now confine myself to questions. My first question concerns the concern for our compatriots in Iraq and Iran. I understand that scheduled trips to Iran have now been reduced, so there is still a security problem. What contacts are there on this subject, Minister? What attitude do you adopt in this respect? You've met the American ambassador. What did you discuss with the ambassador and what did you learn from that conversation? The Belgian officers on the ground are not allowed to leave their camp. What's their condition? What happened yesterday and what effect does that have on their situation? Can they still carry out their tasks and do they still have to carry out their tasks? How is their safety guaranteed? Has there been any talk within the coalition about the significance of the Iraqi Parliament's decision? Germany is planning evacuation to surrounding countries. What position do you take on that? My next question is about the missions against ISIS. Both Stoltenberg and the United Kingdom and Germany strongly support the continuation of this mission. How do you see the future of that? Iranian revenge has not been delayed for long; we are witnesses to that. What is the possibility of applying Article 5 to NATO? In what way can we get involved in an escalation by this means, without us having any control over it? I also agree with the question of the meeting of the European Foreign Ministers next Friday. Shall we condemn Iranian operations? How do you estimate the impact on the JCPoA? There is talk here of a nuclear deal, but the word deal implies more than one group, otherwise there is not much left of a deal. I have the impression that Europe is starting to have a deal with itself. The United States has formally exited and Iran has gradually reduced its commitments. What are the consequences for INSTEX? You will remember the debate that we have had here and which has now taken on a new dimension. Maybe just a little bit more on the Strait of Hormuz, which is still a lifeblood for the world economy. What is our attitude towards the protection of our ships or our participation in the European or American mission? Finally, it has been said here that we should not take a stand. I think we should be very careful. It's not about black and white situations. Should it not be a serious matter, we could find humorous that if Iranian bombs do not target or explode, this proves everyone's right. According to some, this proves that Iran is not able to take serious military action. According to others, this means that Iran is de-escalating and that they deliberately threw around a little toy in the neighborhood. Any news can be explained as one wishes. However, I think that caution is desirable, but it goes without saying that in the broad picture, despite the concrete actions and political policy of Trump, we still belong a little more in the western camp and that this gives us more influence on the policies of the United States. But then we in Europe will also have to take responsibility, because simply referring to our diplomatic skills may reassure us, but it probably will not be enough. It has just been pointed out that it is interesting that you are both Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence, because in this regard I believe that the military arm will be a component without which Europe's diplomatic power may exist in our heads rather than have a concrete impact on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u10	Minister, on Friday, January 3, the American army trampled on international law by assassinating one of the highest-ranking officials of the Iranian government. This attack was carried out without any consultation with the allies of the United States, either within NATO or within the coalition fighting against the Islamic State. We learned through the Iraqi Prime Minister that General Soleimani was in Iraq in particular to respond to the negotiations with Saudi Arabia, which the United States was seeking. Minister, what is our position on this American aggression? I would like to recall that the United States is primarily responsible for the explosive situation in the region, following decades of wars and aggression in the Middle East. Today, they turn on a wick that will probably blow us in the face if it continues in that direction. Minister, you called for de-escalation and diplomacy. But diplomacy is conducted in a context of mutual respect and also with respect for international law. There is a clear violation of international law and you have not taken a clear position. You didn't condemn this assault. Do you condemn this violation of international law or not? I would also like to ask you about the value of our participation in NATO, whose policy is currently inconsistent. We saw it with Turkey a few months ago, today it is the United States. What is our role in this coalition? Are we heard? Do we have a say or are we content to make such a figurative statement that we do not dare to condemn a violation of international law by the United States? With regard to the decision of the Iraqi Parliament to withdraw the US army as well as other foreign armies, what influence will this decision have on the Belgian government's willingness to continue its participation in the international coalition against Daesh after July 2020? Are we going to continue with this logic or are we going to comply with the Iraqi Parliament's decision? I would like to know your position on this issue. Twenty-two Belgian soldiers or two were also mentioned. I had a number of four. The presence of our soldiers on Iraqi territory is therefore very blurred. Do you have any clear answers on this? Could you give us correct information and not figures that go in all directions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u11	Minister, Iran no longer feels bound by the nuclear deal that was concluded at international level. The agreement imposes a limit on uranium enrichment and the number of centrifuges. The deal must prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. In return, sanctions against the country would be reduced. Iran has been breaking the obligations of the agreement for some time now. Uranium has been enriched to more than 3.67 % since November 2019. The Tehran regime now declares that it has entered the fifth and final phase of the reduction of nuclear obligations. Iran threatened to leave the nuclear deal earlier, unless Europe was able to receive economic benefits. In this context, the INSTEX vehicle was set up. Now that Iran clearly states that it will throw overboard the conditions of the nuclear agreement, Europe and Belgium are exposed in the buttocks dossier. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you the following. What impact does the new Iranian attitude have on Belgian participation in INSTEX? What impact does the new Iranian attitude have on bilateral relations between Belgium and Iran? Does the new Iranian attitude mean that there will be a tightening of the embargo against Iran?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u12	Madam President, Minister, I too wish everyone the best. I wish everyone could have a lot of love, but I also wish everyone could give. The latter is certainly equally important. I wish us all a great deal of efficiency. That being said, the context of what is happening in the region has now been sufficiently clearly outlined by previous speakers. It is clear that the region has entered a very dangerous rapidity. There has been not only warlike language spoken on both sides. Unfortunately, more and more actions have been taken. The fuse was stabbed in the powder keg. I agree with what Mr De Roover said. In the conflict there are no choirboys and certainly no saints. There are two predators there. Mr Minister, that is also my first question. We are, to our regret, the ally of the United States. Our country is an ally. We're in a military alliance through NATO. That is what my first question is about. What role will we play? What position will we take? How clear and clear do we dare to be about this? I understand you've already met the American ambassador, for example. What was the message from that meeting? To what extent can we agree with that? We are members of the Security Council. Now is the time to make our voices heard. What voice will that be? My second question concerns the concern and concern that everyone here shares. Let us also not forget the situation on the ground for the local population, nor the threats to international installations on the ground. How do we ensure the security of Belgian citizens and embassy staff on the ground, not only in Iran, but also in the surrounding countries? After all, that threat goes a lot wider than Iran alone. Apparently, there is a lack of clarity as to how many soldiers there are. Do we have plans for evacuation? My third question concerns the INSTEX agreement that we approved here last year. Iran has already stated that it will ignore the provisions of the Vienna Agreement. Does that have any consequences for the INSTEX? Is that temporarily shut down? Shall we take sanctions there? I do know that the INSTEX is mainly intended for the population. Don't forget they're the victims of those aggressors on the scene. What are our plans for the INSTEX?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I too wish you strength and courage for this year. It is not always the case that the Minister of Defence is also the Minister of Foreign Affairs. You got that double wallet at a special time. I have questions at three important levels, with the hope that this government will shed some light on them. A first level concerns the Belgian military in Iraq and in the region. The second level relates to the possible positions of the Belgian Government in international fora. A few have already been mentioned here, but clear positions of Belgium at the various international meetings are important. The third level has to do with the nuclear threat, a situation that can escalate. Firstly, even without you having given an answer, the questions show that it is useful for Parliament to have an overview of the deployment of Belgian troops in Iraq and in the region. Different numbers are mentioned here. It's supposed to be 4 F-16's going there again, which could cause an increase to 95 people. This is not just about Iraq, but also about the regions where Belgian soldiers are currently deployed. Can you give an overview, together with the obvious question as to whether we should send additional people to protect the Belgians and the military present? For example, there has already been a case in the Netherlands and there it has been decided to send some thirty extra people from Defence as a security framework. Is that what we are considering for the coming period? Should we reconsider the renewed commitment of F-16s or not in the current situation? That is a first element: the situation of first and foremost the Belgian military, but also the Belgians in general in Iraq and in that region, because of the situation. Secondly, what views can, or dares, the Belgian Government take in the various international fora? There's a Foreign Affairs Council on Friday. The question is what Belgium will ask there. There is a Joined Comprehensive Plan of Action. However, there are already several announcements, such as that Iran no longer feels bound by the limitations of the nuclear enrichment agreement. What position will we take there? The possible escalation, with many different things being said at the moment about how quickly or how intensive Iran could develop a nuclear threat, calls for clear positions from the Member States. What will Belgium say about non-proliferation? Quid the INSTEX story? How clear does Belgium want to be at the moment? However contradictory it may sound, now that the possibility of conflicts is re-emerging, there is all the more need for clear positions on non-proliferation and disarmament of weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons. So what position will Belgium take in international fora, both on Friday at the Foreign Affairs Council, and on the international meetings to be held in the near future on disarmament of nuclear weapons? The last point concerns the nuclear threat. It is often argued that the presence of nuclear weapons is necessary to preserve peace. At the moment we are in a situation where intervention in a particular area, such as Soleimani, says that part of the withdrawal from agreements, not entirely. What could then be compromised is the planned disarmament or the planned cessation and dismantling of centrifuges for uranium enrichment, or the controls. How will Belgium make it clear at international level that the pressure to disarm must be increased? This conflict shows how quickly it could escalate. After North Korea and India versus Pakistan, this is yet another scene in the world that shows that nuclear weapons can become a threat very quickly. What will Belgium's attitude be to the question of whether or not we want to accelerate internationally in the field of disarmament of nuclear weapons? Minister, I would have liked to have been clear on these three issues. Given our presence there and the possible renewal of the F-16s, will we consider bringing an additional security framework? Where else in the region are there soldiers on mission? What will Belgium's attitude be to international fora in relation to this conflict, but certainly also to the disarmament of nuclear weapons? Those are my most important questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u14	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, most of the introduction has already been made, so I will confine myself to a number of questions and arguments which I would like to put to you. The decision to kill Soleimani came unexpectedly, was very harsh and caused a chain reaction to events, which actually means that we no longer have control over the Middle East. So it's vintage Donald Trump. However, we must now move forward and have an escalation. It is extremely important to prevent further weapons violence in the Middle East. The European Union can play an important role in this, so I look forward to Belgium's attitude, especially on that point. We are already seeing a number of consequences of the action of the United States. Those consequences don't look particularly happy right now. The Iraqi Parliament has asked the American troops to leave the country. That would mean that we have less contact with Iraq and we have less control. The operation against IS may also be less coordinated. It therefore threatens security interests, including in the European Union and Belgium. Iran has also announced that it will ignore the limitations of the nuclear agreement with the United States and Europe, while we have a common interest in controlling the nuclear industry in Iran. Last night, some 20 missiles were fired from Iran on bases in Iraq. All in all, that was in fact a controlled reaction, but the big question is, of course, whether or not it stays there. In any case, if both sides are now calling for a de-escalation, it is up to both sides to sit around the table and choose dialogue. Then Europe and our country will be at stake. After all, our country is an important player. It's military presence in Iraq, by the way. We also see that the radical wing in Iran has already been strengthened by the American action, to the detriment of the moderates. If we compare the situation with two years ago, the situation in Iran and the Middle East already looks completely different. After all, there was a fairly good dialogue with Iran. There was also an internal conflict in the country that did not always benefit the radicals and the clerics. There was quite good control and rather positive reports on the nuclear file. The threat that Iran would enrich uranium for nuclear weapons was more or less under control, but now the situation is completely different. There may be colleagues who doubt the opportunity of Donald Trump's action and say that it is all not so bad, but that is all due to the disastrous Trump policy in Iran. Two years ago, it looked much better than today. Much, of course, has to do with the unilateral withdrawal of the nuclear deal by the United States. I have five questions for you. Firstly, de-escalation is now particularly important. What is Belgium's position? What will we say and do, including at the European level, to reach agreement and get the various parties to table? Some say that Europe does not really mean much. I strongly disagree with that. The European Union is an economic power. Both Iran and the United States have an interest in maintaining good relations with the European Union. We can offer a great deal to a country like Iran. We have a more moderate position than the United States. We can therefore play a significant role. If the European Commission thinks it is developing a strong geopolitical Europe, then now is the time to do so. We must avoid war. We must avoid further weapons violence. Europe can play a role in this. We must believe in ourselves and turn our economic power into diplomatic weight. Secondly, as far as the nuclear aspect is concerned, we are particularly interested in the question of whether or not inspections can be maintained. Iran has already said that it will abandon the limits of the nuclear deal and will no longer feel restrained, but for the time being it is unclear whether this also means that international observers or inspectors, who control Iran's nuclear installations, should stop their work. Hopefully that is not the case. Europe can use its economic weight to ensure that nuclear weapons are certainly not produced in Iran. Thirdly, what are the consequences for our military presence in Iraq? There's gonna be voices to keep the American military out of the country. What are the consequences, including for the operations against ISIS? Fourthly, how do you feel about the legality of killing senior state officials? In the end, Donald Trump's decision is not indisputable. Finally, on 10 January, the UN resolution on crossborder aid in Northern Syria expires. We all know the humanitarian situation in Syria. For the time being, no extension of that arrangement has been agreed in the Security Council. Does the Iran-US crisis have an impact on that file? Can our country play a role in this, possibly through the consultations that are shortly to be held at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u15	In view of the importance of this debate, are there any further questions from other colleagues? Mr Flahaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u16	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your flexibility. Mr. Ben Achour summed up the situation very well and where we come from. I will allow myself to speak very briefly. The current period has many similarities with previous situations, particularly in 2003, during the war in Iraq, under the presidency of George Bush. We are faced with an unforeseeable American president who is primarily concerned about his internal electorate as he is in the election campaign. We are faced with unilateral, brutal and uncoordinated decisions, not even with its congress. I do not think we would have dared to do so in our country. In these decisions, we do not perceive the position of the American military except perhaps through the letter that was lost at some point. Was it sent or not? In general, military personnel do not make such mistakes. This was perhaps a form of warning about the existence of dissension between them and the presidency that had acted alone. Decisions are made and justified by facts presented as truths and certainties but not with concrete evidence. Indeed, we are asked to take for cash acts that the general, whose activity I do not support, would have committed or was going to commit, all without proof. We can make the parallel with the statement made at the time of the Iraq war that the proof that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq was because we had not found one! This is the same reasoning as that held by Mr. Colin Powell and which had to return to a form of truth. These decisions are also taken in total violation of international rules and in disregard of the United Nations, which is not respected and which is not allowed to work because it is denied visas. If we parallel it, we could deny visas to US diplomats or military personnel who would come to NATO meetings. That is not how we conceive the exercise of multilateralism. What to do? Mr Minister, I think you will have an opportunity to act at European level and you will also have an opportunity to act when you preside over the United Nations Security Council on 1 February. You will be able to hold this debate with determination, but also during the European meeting. Then, and as you said, I think we need to work on the return to reason and dialogue. It is also necessary to work towards European coherence, which is the most difficult to find. I think it is very important that we warn today that Belgium will not respond to any bilateral or NATO request to participate in operations or actions that engage our military without an agreement from the United Nations and without a prior vote by Parliament of an argumented resolution. Our meeting is an important part of this. Within NATO, we must also respect our sovereignty. NATO is a set of states, not a military government. It's a political association. There is a problem between the United States and Iran, but there may be one between Turkey and NATO in the near future. Indeed, Turkey's unilateral NATO-allied decision to intervene in Libya may lead to reactions from neighbouring countries or reactions on Libyan territory, which will harm one of NATO's allies and lead to Article 5, which would force us to participate in operations. We must really warn NATO and the United Nations that we will not engage without guarantees and without discussion in such adventures as we would like to propose. Madam, thank you again for your flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u17	Madam President, I wish all colleagues the best for the new year. I have listened very carefully to everything that my fellow Members have said. However, I would like to add a few things that may not be so clear as the coverage is quite one-sided because our media depends on Iranian media. Often it's not about the right data. Because I was born and raised in Iran, I can shed some light. As Europeans, we must think about our own interests. There are colleagues who believe that this is only about economic interests, but for me the security of our region as a neighbour is also very important. I believe that we need a clear response to the chaos and insecurity in the region caused by the Iranian regime in recent years. There are a number of allies in Europe, notably Germany, Great Britain and France. NATO has condemned Iran's latest missile attacks and has also demanded that Iran stop interfering in the region, which is making the whole region unsafe. What is Belgium's position on this issue, Minister? We know that General Soleimani was not a hero, as many say. He was at No. 15 of the European terrorist list. We believe that European interests should be at the heart of all of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u18	After this battery of questions, I am happy to give the floor to the Minister. You have the time for a detailed answer, because the questions were indeed very extensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your good wishes. In my turn, I wish you the best of luck at the beginning of this year, which is particularly shaky. As I did last week, I would first of all like to call for the de-escalation and the avoidance of new actions which could escalate an already very tense situation. I have also called for respect for the international legal order and for the diplomatic search for a solution to the conflicts in the region. A stable long-term solution can only be a political solution. The situation in Iran and Iraq was, of course, also high on the agenda of my meeting with the American Ambassador yesterday. At the EU Special Council on Foreign Affairs next Friday, I will also discuss the situation in Iran and Iraq and in the wider region with my European colleagues in detail. A visit by Iranian minister Zarif to Brussels was finally postponed to a later date. The members of the anti-IS coalition, which is part of Iraq, discussed the situation after General Soleimani's death. In addition, the events were listed. The coalition bureau and the US government continued their efforts to convince the Iraqi authorities of the importance of the coalition's presence in the fight against IS. We are not aware of any public statements of contacts between Iraq and the EU. Our country has not initiated bilateral contact with the Iraqi authorities in recent days. With regard to the legal framework for the United States attack, the United States had not invoked Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations and had not informed the Security Council of its action. According to the U.S. Department of Defense, the strike against General Soleimani was aimed at deterring him from carrying out his future plans of attack that he was actively preparing against U.S. interests in the area. It was therefore as a preemptive measure that the United States told me that it had resorted to force. In addition, I note that, since the end of October, about 10 rocket attacks have already targeted bases where American soldiers or diplomats are stationed. I have therefore asked the United States to share the necessary information through the appropriate channels in order to better understand the motivations of their intervention. As I said, as part of my meeting with the Ambassador of the United States, this question was once again asked to understand the reasons behind this operation. The JCPoA nuclear agreement with Iran has already been under severe pressure and has been called into question even more by recent events. The Iranian Foreign Minister Zarif stated that Iran no longer wants to comply with the restrictions imposed by the JCPoA. However, Iran has not withdrawn from the JCPoA and indicates that it is prepared to regain its obligations if the United States suspends its sanctions. It also wants to continue to cooperate with the IAEA and stresses that every step it takes can also be undone. At the moment, there are no signs that Iran would want to leave the NPT. Whether or not Iran wants to continue to cooperate with the IAEA, particularly in the field of inspections, is a good measure of Iranian intentions. The Foreign Affairs Council, together with our European partners, offers an opportunity to focus on efforts to stop the current escalation, resume dialogue and diplomacy and restore the international legal order. It remains important to safeguard the JCPoA and call on Iran to return to its full implementation. Belgium has become a shareholder of INSTEX. INSTEX implements the economic aspect of the JCPoA. Since the JCPoA is still formally in force, there is no direct impact on INSTEX and its Belgian shareholdership at this stage. At present, there is no evidence that other countries in the Middle East are developing a nuclear programme. Together with the international community, Belgium will make every effort to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon and the spread of nuclear technology in the region. For Belgium, the Non-Proliferation Treaty remains the keystone of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. A legally binding instrument such as an additional protocol to the NPT or separate multilateral agreements on negative security guarantees could further strengthen the NPT. In addition, Belgium continues its efforts to ensure that all States ratify the Convention in Annex 2 of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty so that it can enter into force. Belgium also continues to support the creation of a Fissile Material Cut-Off Treaty. In June of this year Belgium will chair the nuclear (...) group and our country will organise the plenary session of that organisation. It proves that it takes its role in nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament seriously. As for the situation in Iraq and the notice given to travellers, eighty-eight Belgians are currently registered in the register of the Belgian Embassy in Amman, competent for Iraq, as you know. There are 25 Belgian civilians in Baghdad. Of the eighty-eight registered, seventy-eight have dual Belgian-Iraqian nationality, one has dual belgo-philippin nationality and nine have only Belgian nationality. The position is closely following the situation. As far as travellers are concerned, the travel notice does not recommend, except for the Kurdistan Autonomous Region, all trips, in view of the high security risks. Following the death of General Soleimani, the Embassy sent a message to Belgian compatriots in Iraq reminding them of the need for extreme caution, to avoid unnecessary travel, not to participate in demonstrations, not to approach the military and official buildings and to monitor the situation closely. Thus, Belgium acted like most countries. To this message sent to the registered Belgians, less than a dozen responded by saying that they were well, without asking for further assistance. The notice to travellers for Iran already does not recommend all non-essential trips in the country. As a result of the events of the last few days, the opinion has been strengthened. Travellers are advised to exercise the utmost caution with regard to travel and gatherings, and to stay away from official or military buildings. The situation in Iraq was raised at the Foreign Affairs Council in November 2019. Belgium fully supports the statement of the High Representative on behalf of the European Union of 7 November on the ongoing demonstrations in Iraq, in which the European Union deplores the excessive use of force against demonstrators and expects that the perpetrators of all the violations committed will be held accountable. The European Union also declares its support for Iraq's unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity and stresses that an inclusive dialogue is the way forward. The European Union also stands ready to support the Iraqi government in its efforts to respond to citizens' demands such as ending corruption, improving governance and creating jobs. The situation in Iraq after General Soleimani's death will be discussed again at the Foreign Affairs Council on 10 January. We will talk about the consequences of the attack on the internal situation of the country, on our relations with Iran and on the functioning of the anti-Daesh coalition. I have noted your concerns with regard to this particularly important meeting and the generally expressed wish that Europe's voice should be stronger and that it should be able, hopefully, to have weight because there is a broad consensus. Following the demonstrations, the situation on the ground is unstable. People are calling for an end to corruption, more employment and better provision of water and electricity services. The population is also dissatisfied with the political system. In the face of this discontent, Prime Minister Al-Mahdi resigned on 29 November. Another prime minister candidate was not announced within 15 days, as had been previously foreseen, and as provided for in the Constitution. It goes without saying that we are discussing the situation with the Iraqi authorities. The ambassador was received. We have sent him messages that are consistent with our attitude within the European Union. The death of General Soleimani shocked the Iraqi population, especially the part of the population with sympathy for Iran. The Iraqi Parliament has hardly gathered a quorum to do so and has adopted a resolution calling for the departure of foreign troops, but, as we know, it is the government that must legally ask for this departure. Since this government is in day-to-day business, it is difficult to know whether it can do so if it is. In the United Nations Security Council, on the occasion of the December 3 debate on humanitarian activities and the situation in Iraq in general, Belgium defended the right to demonstrate without resort to violence, regretted the use of excessive violence by law enforcement, deplored the victims and pointed to the risk of instability. It also spoke against the armed groups that created instability and called for reforms. Following the death of General Soleimani, Belgium stresses the need for de-escalation, caution and the need to seek solutions through diplomatic means. A specific question was asked to me by Mr. Dallemagne concerning the Security Council and Syria. The worrying situation is that our teams are stepping up their efforts, particularly with Moscow, to ensure that this resolution can be adopted. It is therefore a priority for us. In reply to Mrs Jadin and others concerning the fight against Daesh, the operations were suspended, but no mention was made of abolition. I was just talking about the resolution that was voted by the Iraqi Parliament. It is only a "resolution" and obviously has no binding force. As far as the Strait of Ormuz is concerned, our participation has yet to be discussed in the Defence Committee to see how to support the European maritime surveillance operation. With regard to the military situation in Belgium in Iraq, this morning we had a Military Operations Monitoring Committee with the situation in Mali on the agenda, but at the end of the meeting questions were asked about our military situation in Iraq. It was agreed that at this stage, the information would remain confidential to ensure the protection of our military. I can just tell you that the two soldiers who were in Baghdad are in Kuwait. But I stand at the disposal of Parliament to convene a new Military Operations Monitoring Committee to be able to say more in the context of strict and important respect for the confidentiality of the statements made there. I therefore do not wish to say any more. I have heard many of you speak about the need to have a strong voice in Europe. I share that view. On Friday, I will attend my first Foreign Affairs Council. I will, of course, convey the concerns expressed here and the need to try to speak with one voice so that it can be heard more and stronger at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm going to add some elements to my line. We must note that we are increasingly evolving in a world in which the basic rules of multilateralism and international law are being flouted, a world that more and more enshrines the law of the strongest. It must be a matter of great concern. Of course, Mr Dallemagne, the hostility between the United States and Iran is old; it is almost 40 years old, day by day. However, I reiterate that the heart of the problem we are experiencing today is directly linked to the breakdown of the balance of the Vienna Agreement by the United States and that, therefore, the heart of the solution lies in how to find a solution, an alternative under the impetus of the other signatories, including the Europeans. Mr Minister, you speak of a strong European voice that can bear. Let us agree on what a strong European voice means: it is a European voice that brings solutions, not just incantations and calls for reason or de-escalation. It is a voice that must bring solutions. Nothing can be expected of Iran if it continues to be asked to respect commitments and an agreement while depriving it of those worse benefits by imposing additional sanctions. We won't be able to expect anything from Iran if we continue on that path. It is therefore important to be able to propose solutions. This will never be achieved without solving the problem of the extraterritoriality of American sanctions. We need a meaningful response to this issue that goes beyond the Iranian issue. There is a problem of extraterritoriality of American law in general, which has even become an economic weapon today. I will certainly come back to this Parliament on another occasion. However, we will have to find a solution to this problem. We are tied feet and fists in our power of initiative from the moment when, if we do not align ourselves with the sanctions that the United States decides to impose on one country or another, we risk being punished ourselves. The heart of the stakes is here. As for the situation in Europe and its voice, I will reply to my colleague from the N-VA that Europe's primary interest is stability and security in the Middle East. I recall in this regard that when the United States withdrew from the Vienna Agreement in May 2018, it took a year for Iran to begin to react. For twelve months, Iranians have simply scrupulously respected their share of the deal. I will end with an anecdote that struck me very strongly. I visited the Doha Forum in mid-December. As you know, this is a great colloquium where all decision-makers in the world are discussing the future of this. Indeed, there were very high-level personalities from all over the world: Japan, South America, the United States, and many from the Middle East. There was no European. The only way in which Europe was mentioned in the debates was as a destination market, as a consumer market. It was the largest market in the world. Europe is important for this. But it seemed obvious to me at that time that Europe is far too much an economic giant and a political dwarf today. To weigh much more, politically, and to transform our economic strength into diplomatic and political capacity, we must be able to free ourselves from certain alliances, even if this formula is exaggerated. I want to talk about developing our own vision of the world and our own discourse, without being feet and fists tied to our partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u21	Mr Minister, I must confess that I expected a clearer condemnation of the unilateral operation on your part and on the part of the Belgian Government. I repeat that Donald Trump's operation of a murderous raid on Soleimani is illegal. She literally set fire to the powders in the area. Today we see the consequences. I understand that you met with the American ambassador yesterday and that you tried to understand the reasons behind this murderous act, the assassination of a senior Iranian army officer. You tell us that the main reason for this act is its preventive nature against an imminent attack. The United States would therefore take refuge behind the well-known Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, which allows self-defence to be invoked to allow the use of force and other threats. In this case, it seems to me important to point out that the United States has not proven the threat of an imminent attack. Even if they had done so, the international community agreed that article 51 on self-defence did not apply at all to acts of an imminent nature. That's absolutely not true. The same applies to criminal law: you cannot invoke it in relation to an attack that has not been committed. The principle of self-defence must apply not only to Iran, but also to Iraq, the territory on which the attack took place without any authorization from the Iraqi government. Also, it is necessary to stop turning around the pot and speaking frankly to our American ally, telling Donald Trump that he crossed the red line. This is even more true since the publication on Saturday of his incendiary tweets that threaten to target cultural sites protected by several international conventions. I also regret - if I understand correctly - that the planned meeting between the High Representative of the European Union and the Iranian Foreign Minister will be postponed to a later date. In this case, the European Union must play a very important role. We know that the partial origin of the current tensions is the withdrawal of the United States from the Iranian nuclear agreement. We must maintain Iran in this treaty at all costs in order to preserve international security. We must put our weight in the balance for peace - not only in Iraq and Iran, but also in Yemen and, of course, Syria. On the other hand, I am pleased that Belgium is defending a proactive position to maintain cross-border humanitarian aid in Syria. As far as the European Union is concerned, I can hear you well. It's nice to hope she can speak with one voice. Now, to be heard, it is necessary to speak loudly and clearly by taking leadership. I have mentioned a lead that has already been discussed by our diplomats in recent weeks: it would be wise to hold a major Gulf peace conference with these two major regional actors, Iran and Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the elements you have provided us with regard to the current situation. Do you have to leave at 5:00 p.m. because President Trump is going to give an address? I'm joining Mr. Dallemagne in his analysis. We can get mad as much as we want about President Trump's tweets, his voraciousness, his lack of diplomacy or his lack of predictability, Belgian diplomacy must continue to have the most opportune relations for our country, for our citizens, for the security of our country. It is a fact that we must say things frankly, while considering those who are our allies at the level of many international organizations. Mr Minister, I would like to clarify the importance - you will soon have the opportunity to do so as Minister for Foreign Affairs at the level of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the European Union - of the opportunity to advocate what many Member States of the European Union are calling for. If we want to speak with one voice, to weigh on the international scale, if we want to be taken seriously in relation to the values we defend, to our priorities, we must continue to unite our efforts with regard to our defence construction. It is also important that we be taken seriously at NATO level with regard to our investment obligations. The alliance of these two elements will enable the European Union to weigh more heavily on the global scale, including for conflicts as important as these, for which the European Union has remained on the balcony for too long, either because it wanted to do so or because it did not have the means to act. In all cases, we will have to take responsibility, stop suffering and assume the situations that we have helped to put in place in certain parts of the world. We can do this because Europe has more people than the United States. Europe is a major economic force. If we can strengthen ourselves at the international level by speaking with one voice, many things can be resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In fact, we should not make criminal convictions. Since the conflict is so escalated, we would behave like an elephant in a porcelain shop. This would fuel terrorism and ethnic conflicts, as well as the conflicts in the Middle East that are now dormant. We must not be an elephant in a porcelain shop, but we must not be a lion without teeth. That is how the European Union has behaved. On the sidelines a little roaring doesn't pay much. The current Commission had not yet taken office when Turkey invaded Syria. At that time, it was not made clear that there should be more ambition, both in the military and in the diplomatic sphere. Now is the time, there is a new Commission, to show more ambition in that region. You have already said that there must be more diplomacy and dialogue and that the international legal order must be protected. We must not say that we condemn any action, but we must make it clear that multilateral rules must be respected. The European Union and the United Nations assume that. I can only direct you to demonstrate that ambition. Now is the time, with this conflict, to escalate, to demonstrate that ambition and to act on it from within the European Union. I hope that you will deliver this message to the Council of Foreign Ministers on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u24	Minister, I understand your difficulty in developing a strategy in a few days. You've just taken up your duties. However, it will be necessary to try to find a space for Europe to play a role as a force for stability there. Let us take the example of the American withdrawal. We do not know today whether it will take place. Clearly, the United States appeared to be ready as a letter had gone and then it had been withdrawn. It would be paradoxical if, post mortem, Qassem Soleimani obtained the result he sought, namely to be the only speakers in the region with the possible support of Russia. The withdrawal of any international force would be catastrophic. The Sunni and Kurdish populations are absolutely not ready and would not tolerate it. Iraq would implode if there was a hasty withdrawal of an international force, let us be aware! Last Sunday, Members of Parliament did not even move to Parliament. The Shiite MPs accused them of treason and threatened prosecution because they had not presented themselves there. We can see that the tension is extremely high in Iraq between the different factions. It seems to me that Europe could propose a force for stability, with the agreement of the Security Council. This is the kind of proposal that Europe could make in an articulated and coherent way to stabilize the situation and to prevent a camp from winning or losing in violence and pain through a new war. You confirmed an information you gave this morning: the two Belgian soldiers in Baghdad left. I understand that they have moved away, but this should not be interpreted as a departure of the Belgian forces from Iraq, hastily and without consultation with NATO or the European Union. Today, it is a question of ensuring that Europe remains present where it is useful, that it plays its role as a factor of stability. It must not close its eyes if it is not to see what is happening at its doorstep and then be surprised at the dramatic consequences that its absence in the region could have in the medium or long term. Let us not forget that if the European project is now so fragile, it is because we have allowed one of the worst wars since the Second World War to continue at our doors since 2011. This war has destroyed a country and is in the process of destroying a region. It has had a significant impact on our security and our political project. We have a considerable responsibility in this political development simply because we have never really wanted to play an important role in it and we have left it to others. Politics hates emptiness and others have taken the place that we did not want to take, with agendas that are contrary to our interests, our values, peace and security. I think that Europe today has the opportunity to grow. Ursula von der Leyen had proposed that the committee be geopolitical and it is indeed time to demonstrate that we have this ambition, particularly in this part of the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answers and explanations. I haven't heard a clear statement. There is therefore still a great deal to be done. However, you have indicated that you want to focus on de-escalation, respect for international law and a strong voice of Europe. As far as the latter is concerned, I wonder what it will bring in practice, but for the time being we will give you the benefit of the doubt. There is no doubt that security and well-being must always be at the forefront, in which I am concerned about the citizens in that region, but also our citizens on the ground, including in the embassies, and our military efforts on the ground. There is no doubt that a global approach is paramount. Military, diplomatic and political work must be carried out at a global level. Our actions must be global, coherent and always in consultation with our international allies and interlocutors. We will continue to monitor the course of this action, both in this committee and in the Committee on Defence. Thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Mr Cogolati of the Ecolo-Green Group noted that you were somewhat reluctant and might have been sharper in condemning what happened on behalf of President Trump. I would have missed it, but in the speeches in this committee on our Minister for Foreign Affairs at the time Mr Reynders and Minister for Defence, I missed the questions about the condemnation of Soleimani's murders. I suspect that Ecolo is legally covered by the concept and that for that reason they have not raised any questions. So there's some kind of hypocrisy I'm finding here anyway. This does not mean that we are uncritical of an ally, but I will continue to point out that it is an ally. We must cherish this alliance in such a way that we have some impact. Moreover, we must be aware that we in Europe are called 'political dwarf' - a military worm. This means that Europe's diplomatic and political weight is probably more likely to have the effect of a dwarf or even a worm. This means that our responsibility in building a strong and reliable military base for our diplomatic and economic operations is essential. I hope that this will be taken into account in the future, for example when it comes to our military expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. I was also hoping to hear a condemnation from you, because we are talking about a violation of international law. I have heard in some speeches that the United States is our allies, and that condemnation is not very diplomatic. But I wonder: is our respect for international law relative? Is it with varying geometry depending on who respects it and who does not respect it, whether they are allies or not? No. We have a position of principle. If I am not mistaken: a position of respect for international law. Once there is a violation, we must condemn it. At that level, I didn't hear anything from you. That's too bad. I would like to know whether you have deep respect for international law as a matter of principle, or is it a function of our alliances? It's a first thing. Second, instead of condemning, you used American language elements to justify this attack. You said the attack was defensive, preventive, because an attack was prepared. It's a song we know. She has already been heard during the war in Iraq with weapons of mass destruction, with Colin Powell, who publicly lied to the United Nations General Assembly. It later turned out that these statements were false. I do not know whether it is naivety or just a repetition of the elements of language which, in substance, do not represent a political argument. Minister, I repeat my request: I would like our country, which is committed to respect for international law, to take a clear political position and not to be subjected to the American lie that we have been used to for years. We've seen that every attack in the United States was based on a war lie. Thirdly, the fact that the United States is an ally. As some colleagues have said, we aspire to stability in the region. This stability also requires condemnation of American policy in the region. I recall that American foreign policy in the region is the primary cause of the destabilization of this region. It was the United States that led the Gulf War in the 1990s. They were the ones who launched the second Gulf War in 2003. We have to call him back. The disastrous situation is the result of this aggressive policy of the United States in the Middle East. Today, we tend to forget it and point Soleimani as the problem. No one says that Soleimani is an angel, but the explosive situation in the region is the consequence of American policy. The United States is the Middle East problem; it is not the solution. Minister, our political position must be clear. Was the violation of international law condemned or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u28	Mr Boukili, I would just like to give a clarification and to use the exact terms of my reply concerning the information given to me, particularly during the meeting with the Ambassador of the United States. What you said is not my point! We need to be precise on this point. I said that it was as a preemptive measure that the United States told me that it had used force. [[In your remarks earlier, it's like I made this statement myself.]] It's a great shade.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u29	No, I don't!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u30	It's after a contact. It seems important to me to clarify this because you gave us the impression that it was my word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u31	Thank you very much for the clarification, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. A few months ago we were indeed talking about Belgium's accession to the INSTEX mechanism. All the groups then expressed their concern about the human rights situation and the nuclear deal. The Flemish Interest was the only group that voted against Belgium's participation in INSTEX. The other groups still believed that this mechanism could be a possible lever for Iran to comply with the nuclear deal. Once again, however, it has been shown that Iran does not comply with international agreements and that the creation of yet another mechanism cannot force it to comply with the nuclear deal. On the contrary, Iran has missed the opportunity to keep its commitments and to convince the world community and the EU of its good intentions. With Iran's possible termination of a nuclear deal, we also need to consider Belgium's participation in INSTEX, because Belgium cannot trade with Iran as if there were nothing going on in that regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u33	Mr. Secretary, I'll be brief. If we all consider human rights to be so important, if all the international agreements have been made to enforce these human rights, then I wonder to what extent is there still any point in establishing multilateral rules if we do not say vigorously that it is not possible to break the rules? To what extent do we show that we attach great importance to this? To what extent do we show that we condemn this? I agree with what you said, Mrs Van Hoof. We should nevertheless show a little more ambition, including in Europe, to make our voice heard. We don't just have to let it get over us. After all, who wants to be an international worm?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. With all the understanding of the security situation and the failure to give details of the presence, my question about the deployment of military personnel was mainly about the future. There are two elements. Firstly, reinstalling F-16s in the region means the development of quite a lot of people. Is that coming to Parliament or not? Secondly, what do other countries do? I gave the example of the Netherlands. Will an additional security framework be provided if there is permanent activity and presence of Belgians in the region? Nor is it neutral to refer in Parliament only when Belgian soldiers disappear from the region, to the overall picture of the stabilisation and role that Europe has. I do not agree with those who say that Europe should not play a stabilising role. This means both diplomatic and non-proliferation. It can continue to be said that everyone is small in itself. However, that is not true for Europe as a whole. That is why my question is that the Belgian Government should adopt clear, sufficiently courageous and strong positions at international meetings, especially when it comes to the disarmament of nuclear weapons. I would like to add briefly that it does not matter to me so much who speaks the most truth or the least hypocrite. It has been an unstable region for a long time. She's unstable because of wars and past decisions. One speaker quoted it here and it is also true: these wars, such as the war in Iraq, have sometimes started on the basis of lies. That is acknowledged in America, including by military forces. The point here is that it cannot simply be said whether all of Soleimani's misdeeds are good or bad. It is very difficult to judge that personally and individually. What I do know is this. It was pointed out earlier that Soleimani was on the list of terrorists. However, his successor is also on that list. What does that mean? Does this mean that this successor, because he is also on a list of terrorists, must also be eliminated and that the situation will escalate in that way? Many of the questions that have been asked here by other Members are about how de-escalation and stabilisation can occur. Positions should be taken to this end. Escalation is now easy and perhaps even difficult to avoid. We do not know, nor do we know with certainty the speed at which countries such as Iran can develop nuclear capacity. The truth is that we don't even have any certainty about that. That is why there is a demand for very clear and courageous positions, both in terms of stabilisation, diplomatic engagement and the presence of military forces and inciting non-proliferation or disarming weapons of mass destruction, especially in such a dangerous region. Minister, my questions about the use of people are concrete. These are very specific questions about the future. What about the renewal of the deployment of F-16s and quite a lot of Belgian men, whether or not with an additional security framework? Will you also bring that to Parliament if it is considered? You gave Iraq a qualification as a country in which the population is not very satisfied with the political system and you say that it is difficult for the current government to move forward in current affairs. That is why my question is to what extent, before such decisions are taken, you will come to Parliament and the committee early enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u35	Minister, thank you. Perhaps we could have made a joint Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee on military matters. It'll be for the next time. I do understand the caution expressed, and I appreciate that you are putting things back in place by saying that some of the points are not from you, but from the United States Ambassador you have met. Of course, we need to be careful and balanced if we want to propose engagement formulas, particularly at European level, because to commit ourselves, we need means and consensus to find them, and I have some doubts about this. Secondly, we must be clear about our position, whether at the UN level, at the NATO level, at the European level and clearly in our dialogue and in our speech with our allies. We must be frank about the United States and Turkey in particular, because through frank dialogue we will be respected. Our small size at the NATO level does not prevent us from being an ally in the same way as others. It is an alliance between sovereign countries and, therefore, we can express ourselves in complete sovereignty. This is not always the case when we say it, but in any case, it is a reality that we want to uphold. We also need to be clear about our position right now and about the attitude we want to take if we are asked to engage somewhere, because by warning of our position, I believe that we will avoid bad surprises and that we will avoid being stuck in a decision-making process that would take us to adventures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u36	We hear here that Soleimani is being praised as a hero, but he was an architect of the recent years of war in the Middle East. Those who are concerned about the violation of international law and human rights must know that children and adults have been bombed in Syria for years, simply by the interference of the Islamic regime throughout the region. Who will have to bear all the consequences? The Europeans. All these problems need to be solved by Europeans. All these refugees must be received by Europeans. All these security issues are coming straight to us. Because we are neighbours of that region. And yet here people are worried about Soleimani as a hero. That may be someone's hero, but he was on Europe's terrorist list. Iran, of course, speaks harsh language. What do we want to do now? But don't worry, there will be no more than this. If we really want to stabilise the region, we as a European must take a clear position and say that Iran must stop making the whole region unsafe. 'Cause all these problems are coming straight to us. I'm guessing you want to convict more America than just show that there's a problem with us. Remember that in recent months, 1,500 people have been shot in Iran in a few days and over 8,000 are in prisons, just because they protested against the regime. You can pretend that these people do not exist and simply continue to make the region unsafe, but I say, first, deepen all the information, instead of always condemning Trump. That's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u37	If there is no response, we can conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u38	I would like to make it clear that I believe that Mrs Safai did not understand my point, which was not at all about Mr Soleimani or Iran, nor about whether he was an angel or a war hero. That's not the question here. What is important is whether this attack by the United States is legitimate in the eyes of international law or not. If you want to legitimize any attack on any regime or anyone you judge a monster, there are many in the world, I wish you good courage! There's an international law that rules the world and rules all this. We respect it or we do not respect it, that is the question! That's what I was talking about. This is the second time you've mentioned it, but I don't think anyone in this committee has made Mr Soleimani a hero. No one has spoken that way. I think this is an obsession on your part. The question at issue is this: if international law is violated, is it worth a condemnation or not? Point on the line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a second debate. Such a debate is subject to clear rules. There are 5 questions about the Foreign Terrorist Fighters. If everyone intervenes for two minutes, then the Minister responds and then replicates every other minute, we will have that debate. I hope you can agree to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u40	Minister, OCAM recently announced that several Belgian jihadists had escaped from the Kurdish detention camp in Syria. In this regard, the press published the names of two jihadist women probably in Turkey, although no precise location was then possible (my question was dated 13 November). They were reportedly trained with the aim of returning to Europe to carry out attacks. My questions are as follows. Minister, have you ever contacted the Turkish authorities through our embassy in Ankara? Can we say a little more about the dismissal of these two jihadist women? More generally, how many Belgian jihadists would be affected by the Turkish will to return fighters from the Islamic State to their country of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u41	Minister, my question is also dated November 13. I indicated in my question that two days earlier the Turkish Ministry of the Interior had announced that it had begun the removal of foreign terrorist fighters and that for several days it had been calling on Western countries to return their fellow citizens detained by Ankara. The Turkish authorities had indicated that such expulsions took place once the legal procedures had been finalized. However, the refusal by Greece that evening to accept on its territory the passage of the first jihadist expelled from the United States raised questions. We remember the images of this jihadist stuck between two borders. Your predecessor had told the committee on 12 November that four Belgian nationals were affected by this decision. My questions were as follows. How has Turkey's procedure evolved since 11 November? Did any new nationals of our country add to those mentioned on 12 November in Mr Reynders' reply? In this context, what follow-up is being carried out in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u42	Madam President, my questions are not fundamentally different from those of my colleagues. I therefore join them. I would just like to add that Turkey today presents itself as a partner in transferring FTFs, especially those on its territory, but according to my information, five FTFs are in prison in Turkey for which Belgium has requested extradition for a number of months, if not years. I refer in particular to Yassine Lachiri, who is a terrorist sentenced by default to 20 years in prison. That is to say, the charges against him. However, if my information is good, Turkey does not extradite these Belgian nationals, so we cannot claim as the Turkish leaders do that they send home terrorists who should be taken care of by the countries of origin. What is the number of FTFs of Belgian origin in Turkey? Is it true that these five extradition requests exist? What about the Turkish attitude in this regard? More generally, I would like to add to the questions about the number of people who have been expelled and the fact that further evictions are to be expected in the coming days and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u43	To my plenary question about a possible return of Belgian IS widows at the end of November, the Prime Minister replied that there might have been four Belgian women who would be extradited by Turkey. We also learned that according to the information provided by the OCAD it would be about nine female FTFs. What is the current state of affairs? How many FTFs deployed by Turkey are currently on Belgian territory? Do you know of the number of Belgian IS widows on Turkish territory waiting for expulsion to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u44	Madam President, I will focus more specifically on the situation of Belgian children detained in Syria. In two hearings, we heard from the General Delegate for Children's Rights, Child Focus, the Federal Prosecutor's Office and OCAM. We have read the comments of UNICEF and the United Nations on the rights of the child. All, with a unanimous voice, recall Belgium's obligation, under international law, to repatriate Belgian children detained under Danesque conditions in camps in north-eastern Syria. On Wednesday, December 11th, a judge of the referenda ordered your government to provide the necessary assistance for the repatriation of ten children of Belgian jihadists detained in Syria. The deadline was within six weeks. We're getting closer quickly. The Government had announced its intention to appeal this decision. Has the government realized its intention? Is Belgium preparing for the repatriation of these ten children, if not? If so, what contacts have already been made to enable it? In so far as the Kurds refuse the repatriation of children without their mothers, does not the execution of the decision of the judge for interim measures entail, de facto, the repatriation of the mothers in question? Currently, Belgian mothers and children are in prisons and centres in Turkey. Is Belgium in contact with the Turkish authorities to carry out their repatriation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u45	Madam President, at the end of November 2019, two FTF women were expelled from Turkey, one after being arrested following his escape from Ain Issa camp and his crossing to the Turkish-Syrian border, the other after being intercepted by the Turkish army in Syria. Their expulsion took place in close cooperation with the Turkish authorities, which made it possible to organise their safe transfer and their care as soon as they arrived in Belgium, where they are now incarcerated. Information on the escape of two FTF men following the Turkish offensive proved unfounded. They are still being held in a prison in north-eastern Syria. The Foreign Affairs Department is aware of the detention of six Belgian foreign fighters in Turkey. Three of them have been convicted in Turkey for their membership of the terrorist organisation Islamic State and are serving prison sentences. As far as the other three are concerned, we are awaiting the decision of the Turkish authorities to prosecute them on the spot or to send them to Belgium. Our embassy in Ankara has regular contacts with the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and stresses on every occasion the importance of transparent cooperation in the event of the future dismissal of Belgian FTFs. With regard to the decision of the judge for interim measures of 11 December 2019 ordering the Belgian State to provide assistance to ten Belgian FTF children currently detained in north-east Syria, I can tell you that the Belgian State has not appealed against this decision. My department is currently examining enforcement options, including the necessary international contacts and security aspects. I am not in a position to confirm that a transfer of these children will actually take place or, if so, within what time frame. The order was accompanied by a penalty payment of EUR 5,000 per day and per child without a ceiling. The repatriation of children has already taken place in the past. In November 2018, a young girl, who was kidnapped by her father in the Idlib region in 2016, was repatriated to her mother in Belgium. In June 2019 we were able to repatriate six children from the camps in Northern Syria. It involved four orphans and two unaccompanied victims of parental abduction. The government's current position does not provide for the repatriation of adults from Syria. I repeat here the figures we have today: in Turkey, six women with children are currently detained; in Iraq, two men are in prison; in Syria, fourteen men are in prison and 28 women and about fifty children are in the camps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u46	Thank you very much, Minister, for these elements of the answer. As far as my questions are concerned, that is quite clear. I just want to point out how important our diplomatic relations are. In any case, contacts must be maintained, even if we do not always agree on certain subjects. With Turkey, for example, there are many topics on which we are discussing. Here, it is essential that the collaboration be done perfectly. I hear that this is the case and I welcome it. I hope that, if we still have to deal with this type of case in the coming weeks with the Foreign Terrorism Fighters coming from Syria via Turkey, we can again count on this perfect collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u47	Minister, I'm a little surprised that you told us that the government did not appeal. Yet the Minister of Justice said in plenary that he would.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u48	I said in plenary session that he was nuanced by what he had said to the press in the morning. In plenary, he started a turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u49	In any case, if we do not appeal, I think it is necessary to act. We can't stay in the in-between, because in the meantime, the counter turns and the periodicity is not punctured with worms. This is another reason for moving forward on children's issues quickly and significantly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u50	To answer you, I confirm that there was no call. Moreover, Minister Geens – who had replaced me, since I was on a mission abroad – spoke in plenary to that effect. On that occasion, he had indicated that the government was analysing the judgement. That's for the official expression. Since then, the services have been thinking about how best to execute this judgment. We first looked at what came out of it. Secondly, we tried to see how to interpret it and to determine what was left of the Belgian authorities. It is an obligation of means – no result – to make every effort to bring about the normal conditions of a return of children, with all the filters you know. You know that the Kurds refuse to allow children to be separated from their mother. However, the judgment only provides for the return of the former. Then, of course, we have to get the agreement of the mothers. It can be assumed that their response will be positive since a request has been made to that effect. Finally, we must make the consular route compatible with the security rules. You also know that time is running out, as long as a deadline has been assigned to us through this judgment. We are now engaged in analysing the operational aspects of our action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u51	So, Minister, does this mean that the penalty payment is not applicable?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u52	It will be at the end of the month or the beginning of February, but I do not have the exact date. In any case, it is not yet applicable. That's for my clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u53	On this point, the first statements of the Minister of Justice were surprising. Indeed, the judge was asking for the government's decision to be implemented. It was therefore difficult to appeal. Then I am somewhat surprised by your interpretation of an obligation of means, and no result. The very fact that a deadline has been given clearly shows the existence of such an obligation, as the periodic penalty payment will begin to run from a certain point on. I therefore do not understand very well what the federal government will have room for manoeuvre. On the other hand, I consider it necessary to give up trying to separate women and children, for a whole series of reasons that have already been set out a thousand times here. It's the only way to get them out of there. That doesn't prevent these moms from having to answer in court. It seems clear to me, too. The Kurdish authorities – I have a regular opportunity to talk to Kurds – do not yet accept the idea of separating them. Mothers and children don't want it either. If we want to have a decision that can be implemented, we will have to open that possibility. On the practical route, it is true that the current situation complicates things. But the path was relatively clear, at least until the last few days. That remains to be confirmed. On the issue of FTFs in Turkey, you said there were six of them, three of them convicted. For the rest, you are waiting for the Turkish authorities to respond. We know what kind it will be. These authorities have systematically refused extradition because they believe that on the Belgian side individuals who they consider to have violated Turkish law should be extradited and that we consider that they have not violated our fundamental principles or laws. These people would be at risk of human rights abuses there. There is no ideal cooperation on the part of the Turkish authorities with regard to nationals who are terrorists. I am not aware of any news from Yassine Lachiri. It is still unclear whether he has actually been exchanged for Turkish soldiers detained in Syria or whether he is still in Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u54	Again, in order for my remarks to be well understood, I would like to make a very small clarification on the obligation of means and the obligation of result. There is no obligation to achieve results with regard to the effective repatriation of children, but there is an obligation to achieve results in the implementation of all stages of repatriation. That was the specific purpose of my remarks. This obligation of result consists in making available the documents that allow the return. I referred earlier to the few possible dams or the few steps that will have to be taken to ensure that they are effective. In that context, we must indeed have an obligation to achieve results. Has the Turkish authorities been contacted to allow this? Yes. Have the mothers agreed to let the children go again without them? These are all performance obligations in terms of action. I didn't say we were going to do it eventually. That must be done precisely. The same applies to the Aliens Office, which is to allow return. This obligation of result consists of actions that we must accomplish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u55	What's your status?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u56	We analyze the judgement, the means to be implemented, the operational side and the displacement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u57	I will come back to that later in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. As in my previous statement, I continue to worry about the security risk of our people. I hope, therefore, that these individuals will be followed very closely by the competent authorities. With regard to the return of FTF'ers and Belgian IS widows, it remains clear to the Flemish interest and we continue to insist that there is no room for them in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u59	Thank you, Minister. I was laughing a few moments ago. Your answer started very well. It was understood that, in the end, the federal government did not appeal. For the first time, too, you have lifted the veil on the possibility of an execution of this long-standing promise to repatriate Belgian children detained in Syria. I recall that this is an obligation under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Secondly, with regard to this obligation of result and means, I remain somewhat puzzled about the real will of the government to implement this promise. I'm surprised for three reasons. The judgment seems clear to me. It was delivered on 11 December and he says that within six weeks, if the eleven children are not repatriated, a penalty payment of 5,000 euros per day will be required. It's a huge amount. I hope we don't face huge losses of public money. The second reason, beyond the money at stake and the periodic penalty payments, is the following. I have the impression that the federal government is waking up as a result of this judgment. It should still be recalled that the federal government itself made this promise to repatriate all children below a certain age at the National Security Council in 2017. It was simply a question of ensuring the right to life and safety of these children. And here's the third reason. It is important to recall this: beyond the money at stake, and the legal aspect, there is the life of children, often in very young age, beyond the eleven children of Belgian jihadists involved in this judgment. The latest figures refer to 55 children who now reside in overcrowded camps, under absolutely monstrous conditions, without access to basic care. I'm thinking about them now, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u60	I'm sorry, but I'm going to give a few more details so that my thinking is as clear as possible. It is known that these are extremely sensitive and sensitive issues. The words used must be used with caution, prudence and precision, in order to be sure to avoid interpretations that go beyond our thinking. The judgment we are talking about obliges the Belgian State to allow the return. We are in the process, for the time being, of allowing this return. I believe that it is necessary to be very precise about the expression and the actions taken in order to allow the return. I take an example to understand well, and very schematic. You'll excuse me in advance for perhaps taking something a little "big" to clarify my thinking. We have to allow the return, so do everything that allows the children to return here. Let's imagine that at the last minute, one of the moms changes her mind and says, "No, finally, I don't want to." We cannot blame our state for the responsibility that emanates at that time from the mother. It's the "school case." I weigh my words, I'm careful in the expression. But it's to understand how far our obligation goes. We have to be in a position to allow the return. These are the precise terms of this judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u61	Beyond this somewhat technical discussion of the concrete obligation imposed on us by judgment, what is your true will as a minister? Do you really want to repatriate the children, and again, not only the ten children involved in the trial, but all the Belgian children detained in Syria? Is there a real will to operationalize this promise that was made in 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u62	In relation to this judgment, for which we have not appealed, I can tell you, at the risk of repeating myself, that we have studied the judgment, we have studied the theoretical operational methods and we are now studying the practical operational methods, to actually allow the return of these children. That's very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u63	There, you know the position of the government, which was adopted earlier. She hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic083x.u64	Thank you, the positions are clear. I will close the debate here and thank colleagues and the Minister. On 21 January there will be a new question session and the Minister will be present at the committee on Wednesday afternoon.
