ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u1	Last year I submitted this question following an interview with the young Flemish entrepreneur Davy Kestens from Silicon Valley, who returned to our country and announced that I would work with a new payment app called Cake. The earning model of the app is that the payment data is stored and sold to third parties. This way, people can use the app for cheaper use. That seems like a strange way of working. Mr Minister, first of all, how does the government check whether such apps comply with our and European privacy laws? How does that happen? Secondly, how is such an app checked for safety? That's what I'm talking about. Payment data are important data. One can lure people with such a system, but they have to be aware that they are at risk by working with such an app. Finally, what is your position on such a way of working? Do you find it ethical that such application sells payment data from Belgian citizens to third parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u2	Thank you for the question. I've always been very much in favour of innovation. This is a facet where innovation plays a role and we can only welcome the fact that Belgian entrepreneurs are beginning to engage in innovative applications. The emergence of Cake is very much linked to the PSD2 Directive, the European Directive allowing payment services to be outsourced and account holders to share their banking data with information service providers. That must always be done with permission, which is the case here. In this way, access to bank data can be obtained. On Cake's website we learn that the company uses the PSD2 Directive to develop its applications and services. They also use anonymous statistics, which are then made available to third parties such as companies and retailers, who want to know where their products are sold or how many people consume certain products, which also creates a privacy problem. The advantage is that apparently some of the proceeds flow back to the people themselves. The PSD2 legislation is very strict. Its compliance should be monitored by the National Bank and will verify compliance with the framework provided for by PSD2. For further information on this, I must refer you to the Minister of Finance, who may have more information on this through the National Bank. Everything related to privacy is covered by GDPR, which is fully in force. The Data Protection Authority should verify that everything is effectively in compliance with the privacy regulations and supervise them. To this end, the Data Protection Authority shall also have an inspection service. The Data Protection Authority may fully exhaust the powers at its disposal. Non-compliance with the privacy regulations may be subject to fines. The GDPR also requires the controller, in this case Cake, to take all organisational and also technical measures in accordance with the GDPR. Even in the case of hacking, for example, Cake remains responsible, as it is the controller. Again, there is only anonymized data shared with third parties; in that respect, I do not think there is any problem with the GDPR. It is about very innovative applications based on PSD2 legislation, which, by the way, aims to create such applications, to organise competition with the classic banks and to give people more insight into their payment flows. If everything is in line with the GDPR, I think there can be no problem in terms of privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I understand that there are few problems with the Cakeapp in this respect. You are right in saying that innovation, especially in that market, is particularly important. I have nothing against that in itself. I'm interested in the principle of that app. Users may have indirect financial advantage with the app, but even if the data are anonymized, companies will of course purchase such data with the aim of making more profit. That is why I am wondering whether it will make users better overall. I have some reservations about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u4	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 5502163C) by Mrs Houtmeyers, (Doc. 55002900C) by Mr Matheï and No. 55003100C by Mr Van Hecke are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I am going to make my introduction brief. You may know the cookie legislation better than I do. But sometimes things get out of hand. In autumn 2019, for example, the health insurance funds were in the spotlight. As a result of such cases, I have a number of questions to ask you. Do you have a view on how many websites in our country do not comply with cookie law? Of course, it is not always simple, but are initiatives being taken to point this out or to help companies? What happens when a violation is established? Do you think it's necessary to have more checks? In what way does the government inform companies and individuals about this cookie legislation? Does the GBA have the means to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u6	Madam President, I myself have a lot of questions about cookies, which continues to irritate people. It would therefore be a good thing if there were more uniform and clearer policies on this issue. There is good news, the Court of Justice of the European Union has said in a recent judgment that the placing of cookies requires the active consent of Internet users. This is fully in line with the GDPR, where there must be a free, specific, informed and unambiguous will of the person concerned. So by default ticking or clicking okay is not really enough anymore. This will also have to be applied and enforced in Belgium. The GBA recently put a very clear emphasis on it in the draft multiannual strategic plan and said that it should be a priority. The GBA also launched and published a public consultation. It states that online processing, including the cookie policy, will become one of the GBA's spearheads. That is a good thing. There are currently no figures available on the number of websites that do not comply with the legislation, but initiatives are being taken by the GBA and by myself, in interviews, to point out to companies and individuals exactly what the cookie legislation is and how it should be implemented. In the first place, of course, it is the GBA that has to take its information and awareness mission to heart and to step up its efforts. The GBA is a body that falls within Parliament, so if you push a little in the right direction, it will help us all. A lot of questions are also asked to the GBA about cookie policy, by companies and organisations as well as by individuals. It always states that the Internet user should be aware of all companies using cookies on their websites and that consent is only valid if Internet users are free to choose. The GBA will also pay a lot of attention to this in the communication on its renewed website. Due to the technological evolution and by website builders and data analytics companies, constant attention is needed to see how the interpretation of existing legislation and European guidelines and recommendations can be further developed. That is where the GBA plays a very active role at European level. The European Data Protection Committee is issuing European directives, so that at the same time it is clear what can or cannot be done for the whole market. In any case, the Committee will have to clarify how such authorisation can be given legally. Once again, if an offence is detected, even after the actions of sensitisation, sanctions or fines may be imposed on companies that do not comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u7	Thanks for the answer. The piece you started with, about the active consent, is indeed good news. Today everyone clicks on everything to get the information they want, often without realizing what it is about. That is and will remain a problem. For the rest, I will read your answer again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Matheï's 55002900C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u9	Madam President, Minister, it used to happen at cafés, but today it happens via dating apps. There's nothing more difficult than not loving. It is therefore particularly sad when someone seeks a sweetheart through a dating app and then finds that his or her data has been misused in order to send very personalised advertisements to the person concerned. Apparently, that's what happened. My questions are certainly about it. Does your administration know of any problems with Belgian dating apps that have failed to comply with GDPR legislation? Has the GBA taken any action in this respect? How can we make people who want to use such dating apps more aware of what can happen to their information, which apparently happens at the Match Group?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u10	Madam President, Mr Verduyckt, thank you for the question. The GBA has effectively confirmed that it is also pending a case in the dispute chamber concerning a service established in Belgium offering online dating functions. The case also affects persons in other Member States, who apparently also use those functions or where the app is also active. The case is therefore being dealt with today in the context of the European cooperation mechanism and the one-stop shop or one-stop shop system. In this way, supervisors in other Member States also have a clear view of what is happening and can give their views on the problem. So I cannot provide any more information because the procedure is currently under way. When reforming the privacy committee to the GBA, we and Parliament, as legislators, have clearly chosen to raise public awareness as one of the priorities. The new strategic plan therefore shows that effective budgets have been made available to make people more aware of their privacy, for example, about whether someone should also give up data that is requested in a particular app in order to be able to use the app properly? Maybe a dating app requires different information, but the proper definition of what is needed to get a particular function or service is one of the aspects that we always give to people when it comes to protecting their privacy. Specific websites or information channels shall also be set up for such campaigns. In this way we try to sensitise a maximum number of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u11	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is a good thing that there is control and that work is being done on a company that has gone out of line. We all provide a lot of information on the Internet. It's not so much about dating apps. After all, I'm married, so I don't use them. For many things, however, we sometimes give information on which there is doubt as to whether it is necessary. With such apps, I can imagine that more information will be requested. It is therefore a good thing that people who use these apps for innocent reasons will not be affected afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u12	Minister, as you know, California passed the Body Camera Accountability Act in October 2019, which prohibits police from using biometric control systems for their on-board cameras. It also allows citizens to sue officers who violate new regulations. The text refers to the downloading and storage of data from body cameras equipping law enforcement agencies. This is a ban on any type of biometric surveillance system in connection with an officer's camera or data collected by the officer's camera. This law, which took effect in January 2020 for an initial period of three years, does not, however, prohibit the use of facial recognition by fixed cameras or other applications. At European level, reflections are also ongoing and the Commission distinguishes between authentication applications – the image is compared to an image previously recorded with the user's agreement – which are already widely accepted, such as the unlocking of a smartphone screen or automatic passport control portals at airports and remote biometric identification applications – a camera analyses all faces in a crowd to compare them to criminal databases, for example. The latter are already prohibited by the General Regulation on the Protection of Personal Data (GRDP), except under certain specific conditions, for example for reasons of important public interest. For ecologists, the use of such software poses a clear question and seems to us to be able to lead to a whole series of important drifts in terms of mass surveillance and privacy intrusion. Minister, are there facial-recognition cameras (remote biometric identification) currently used in Belgium, whether by public or private bodies? If so, is there an obligation to register or report them? Would you be in favour of a moratorium on the use of such remote biometric identification cameras in Belgium in order to be able to properly measure the risks and update our legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u13	Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for your question. First of all, from a legal point of view, the "camera law" at the moment only allows the use of smart surveillance cameras coupled with registers or personal files, with a view to the automatic recognition of license plates. The Police Function Act also does not allow the use of facial-recognition cameras. The police information monitoring body has already informed me that it has stopped the use of such cameras by the federal police at Zaventem airport. This draft test was deleted due to a lack of a legal basis. As a result, the use of facial-recognition surveillance cameras is not permitted for individuals, but also for public authorities. That is the current situation and the legal context. You mentioned the possibility of certain exceptions. However, you also know that at European level, we have always pushed for a five-year moratorium. In the last European text I consulted, it is no longer included. This seems necessary to me, because we have to think about the impact of such a technique on society. That is why I am very much in favour of holding a debate in Parliament and/or with bodies such as the COC (Police Information Review Body) and with our fellow citizens, to see if this is necessary and, if so, in what context. I am not opposed to innovation itself, since there are also positive applications of facial recognition, but it is important to remain very vigilant and very careful when introducing such a technique into society. I therefore believe that we should continue this debate here. Perhaps it's better to take your time before introducing this tool into society. I therefore plead for Parliament to take charge of this matter, which has a great deal of power in this period of government business. A meeting with experts, competent authorities and the European Commission will be necessary to see how other countries organise themselves on this subject. In any case, I remain extremely cautious about the introduction of this technique, which could constitute a mass database. I was very much in favour of the moratorium in the original European text. Apparently, he's gone. Therefore, all that is related to facial recognition is a high risk. This means that it is important to regulate it legally, with very precise legal texts, and to remain extremely careful about this technique.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u14	Minister, with regard to the situation in Belgium, there had been an installation project in Zaventem. You confirm that he was arrested. We think this is a good thing at this point. We fully share the need for a deep debate in Parliament on the issues related to this new technology. As we often say, technology itself is not a problem. It is the use that is made of technological tools. Here it is an extremely powerful tool. It is clear how other countries, with different political regimes from ours, use such facial recognition tools. There are very important societal issues. I think it is up to Parliament to deal with this. We are also in favour, as long as there are no legal texts, of a moratorium, and de facto a ban on their use in Belgium. Also at European level, but we are talking about the Belgian level. We will certainly continue to explore this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u15	Madam President, Minister, you have already indicated this to the committee responsible for public institutions, as Minister of Privacy, you are also concerned with the discussion of excessive controls for GRAPA. We now know that the legal basis for these controls is, to say the least, fragile. The Data Protection Authority (PAD) found that various acts under the existing supervisory procedure violated the privacy of GRAPA beneficiaries. The transmission to bpost of the list of first names, surname and addresses of the beneficiaries and the control of identity cards by the factors are covered. In addition, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and in particular Article 28 on data processing, must be able to be applied. Finally, it should be noted that the factors are not sworn in to carry out these controls. These are four clear objections. These objections are aimed at the core of the problem: the right to privacy. How is it that these legal shortcomings are only brought to light today, when they are so obvious? Minister, can you confirm the four objections to ODA? Did you or your predecessor raise problems within the government prior to the introduction of this control? What exactly was the opinion that you or your predecessor then gave to the government? Why didn't you or your predecessor have this order checked beforehand by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u16	Madam Chair, Mr. Boukili, thank you for these questions. For most of them, I have to send you back to the Minister responsible for the Federal Pension Service (FPS). I will just touch on a few privacy issues. bpost received the opinion of the Data Protection Authority and reviewed the file with the SFP. As I indicated to your committee, I think there are some mistakes. Some elements were not well understood. It is in this regard that the various authorities are in the process of coordinating and organizing information meetings to see if any problems remain to be solved. I can give you an example: the role of the bpost agent. Initial findings, with the view of ODA, made it clear that some factual information was not correct. For example, the ODA opinion states: "The bpost agent requires the GRAPA beneficiary to present his identity card in order to verify its validity. This validity check involves checking the authenticity of the card, and checking whether it is lost, stolen or invalid from each instance. The officer shall mention the result of this verification in his report to the SFP." That's not right. This is similar to those recommended for whom the factor is limited to applying for the ID card to ensure that the SFP letter is delivered to the recipient. If the latter is unable or does not want to show his identity card, it is clear that bpost will inform the SFP that the letter has not been delivered. That's it! There are factual errors in the opinion. It is necessary to see what type of information bpost and the Federal Pension Service can provide to the Data Protection Authority to review its recommendation. In its opinion, ODA had indicated that it was the responsibility of the Federal Pension Service and bpost to analyse the processing of personal data carried out within the framework of the monitoring of GRAPA. In the meantime, the various departments have forwarded this analysis to him. These are elements which were not taken into account in the opinion given in advance. I therefore hope that we will be able to put an end to this discussion. On the other hand, it must be noted that most of your questions are the responsibility of the Minister of Pensions. In any event, it is necessary to carry out checks on GRAPA. As the minister responsible for combating social fraud in particular, I believe that it is necessary to be able to check whether the persons concerned can actually benefit from GRAPA and whether the conditions, namely residence in Belgium, are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that ODA lacks either information or transparency at the procedural level. I think I know that his report is not based on assumptions, but on information. I therefore call for maximum transparency on the part of the Ministry of Pensions, with the aim of obtaining correct data. We await the study to determine whether the ODA report is based on correct data or is suffering from a lack of information. Finally, I would point out that our pensioners are already under pressure from these controls. There may be agreement on the need for controls on social fraud, but the latter could be managed in a humane manner. And I would like us to be equally motivated when it comes to carrying out controls to combat tax fraud, because it would bring more money to the state. Let us put the means in this struggle and stop attacking only our elders! In addition to the pressure they are under with GRAPA controls, there is a risk that their personal data and privacy will be violated. It would be important to shed light on this and ensure full transparency on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mr Kir is converted into a written question and Question No 5, by Mr Kir Mr Gilissen's 55001750C lapses, as we have not heard from him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u19	Madam President, on 14 February I tabled a question about phenomena such as cheap fakes and deep fakes. The Minister is here now and so am I, so I don't know what happened to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u20	If you do not let us know and the question has been asked, we will in principle declare the question void. If you call, we can postpone them or convert them into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u21	The question is not even present; so I was wondering if there is a particular reason for that or if it is simply a forgetfulness. I expected to be able to ask that question today, but she is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u22	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u23	That question is a bit in line with the other questions, so I expected to be able to ask them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u24	In principle, all questions will be addressed unless they are referred to another minister, but then you will also be notified, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u25	I've already had to answer questions about privacy in different committees. That depends on the theme. Perhaps the question has been assigned to another committee by now. Then we will be happy to come back there again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u26	If you do not find them, return them, Mr Verduyckt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u27	Minister, the imam training at KU Leuven is, as you yourself have announced, an important measure to ensure that imams can also be trained in Belgium, and not only abroad. At the end of December there was the good news that the first students could start the programme in February 2020. 30 students were targeted and after six years the first imams formed in Belgium could graduate. A while later, the KULeuven reported that there had been no registration for this new training. According to the dean of the Faculty of Theology and Religious Sciences, the reason for this is that there is nothing known about the four-year programme that students have to attend at AFOR after two years at the KULeuven. Minister, what do you think is causing the lack of registration? How do you want to ensure that the imam training at KULeuven is a success? What measures will you take? The dean of the faculty of theology and religious sciences points to the lack of information about the training of AFOR. Is it true that there is no information on that part of the training? If so, how come? When will AFOR's programme be ready? Who will monitor the proper development of the AFOR programme? What role does the government play in the AFOR association?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u28	Minister, I have almost the same questions. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the AFOR association. The part of the imam training organized by the KULeuven accounts for 38 out of 150 credits and the other part is indicated by the AFOR association. I therefore believe that it is very important that we have a clear vision and insight into the functioning of AFOR and how you or we are represented in it. At present there are zero registrations, because, firstly, the training is not compulsory, so it is completely non-binding, and secondly, because there is a great deal of uncertainty. I would also point out that, while we were able to ward off Saudi influence from the Grand Mosque of Brussels, I now have the impression that we are reintegrating foreign interference through a back door. Students can participate in foreign internships, but it is not known at which locations or by whom they are organised. That is my first question about imam training, but it will certainly not be the last. I think there will be a lot of discussion and discussion about it. Mr. Secretary, how do you feel about imam training?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u29	We must, of course, try to frame such training with respect for the separation of Church and State and the freedom of religion. I do not need to repeat that there are other religions in our country, which also provide training for these two values. A framework agreement was concluded on 10 December last between the non-profit organisation AFOR and the KULeuven, concerning the civil training of the ministers of the Islamic worship service for obtaining a certificate of religion and society. The registration period has meanwhile been extended until Friday 13 March. A number of candidates have submitted their applications to the president of the AFOR association and now have the opportunity to register. Together with the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, the non-profit association will do everything in its power to make the training public. The aim is to ensure that students know and convey the principles referred to in the question. The students will, as in any training, be evaluated and examined in relation to that knowledge. As far as theological training is concerned, the curriculum is currently being completed. It sometimes happens that a university is completely organized for the first two years, before it knows exactly what will be given in the sixth year, but that is, of course, exceptional. This does not happen at good universities, and we only have good universities in our country. The Board of theologians of the Executive and the Academic Board of the AFOR non-profit organisation shall monitor the practical impact of the training. Both control bodies are composed of persons representing different visions of Islam in Belgium. The AFOR association is autonomous. It will be subsidised through the executive. In this context, both the accounts of the AFOR vzw and the accounts of the Executive will be audited by the FPS Justice. I assume that the reference to political activities comes from the outdated statutes of the AFOR vzw of 25 April 2019. The statutes were now completely rewritten, deleting the reference to political activities. The new statutes were published in the Belgian Official Journal of 2 August 2019. The statutes limit the activities of the non-profit organisation in and to the Belgian context.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that a number of candidates have shown interest in the meantime. Of course, I am also very curious as to how things will evolve. I agree with you on the principle of separation between Church and State. However, we must also consider the training as an opportunity for anchoring our Belgian values, so that imams who will be active in Belgium receive training which is fully in line with the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, and there is compatibility between what is being preached in the Belgian mosques and how Islam can take place in our society. I therefore hope that the momentum will continue so that training can be a success. After all, I do not take as my starting point the suspicious idea that training would be problematic and that political activities should not be seen. I assume that the training is a new development which Belgium, as a society and the practice of religion in particular, can benefit from. So I look forward to continuing to follow up on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u31	Mr Minister, it is indeed one of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, namely paragraph 160, that imams should be familiar with the fundamental values of our State and the resulting principle of law, which we very much support. Minister, I can also hear you, on the other hand, saying that AFOR can and can work completely autonomously. I have heard their chairman, Mehmet Üstün, declare that the teachers themselves can choose the way in which they complete their training. That's what worries me. There are also foreign internships. I have not been given an answer to the question on the subject, and that is more so, and we are just trying to dwindle the danger. I repeat myself and note that the imams must be familiar to us with our fundamental values of the State and with the principles of law. That is why I believe that the fog around AFOR vzw remains for me and that there is still a lot of work to be done. I hope I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u32	Madam President, Minister, last month, in two judgments, the Council of State fundamentally changed gambling legislation. First, the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 was annulled, in so far as it distinguishes between the stricter rules applicable to advertising for licence holders A+ and B+ on the one hand, and licence holders F1+ on the other. According to the Council of State, it has not been sufficiently demonstrated that the first category is more dangerous than the other. Live bets are very dangerous. The Council of State therefore considered that the restrictions applicable to licence holders A+ and B+, but not to licence holders F1+, should be destroyed. So there is again plenty of advertising for all online games. In a second judgment, the Council of State ruled that online bonuses should be prohibited on the basis of the Gaming Act. If bonuses are prohibited in the real world, that ban should also apply online. What impact do these two judgments of the Council of State have on gambling legislation in concrete terms? Which articles of the Royal Decree were destroyed? What advertising for online gambling is allowed or not allowed today? Can holders of an online license A+ or B+ sponsor sports teams now? Does the judgment of the Council of State affect the rules governing broadcasting during sporting events? Would you like to take steps to restore gambling legislation as a result of these judgments? If so, in what sense and against when? If not, why not? According to the Council of State, online bonuses are prohibited. Will the Gaming Commission be doing extra checks on this? If so, how will that happen? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u33	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, the Council of State field two judgments relating to the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018. In general, I can say that the stricter rules remained or were distorted, for example with regard to bonuses. Only in a specific part of the advertising rules was a stricter regulation destroyed because of the principle of equality. To your question which advertising is allowed for online gambling today, I can answer that, apart from the few destructions that I will explain in a moment, the entire Royal Decree will continue to apply. The first judgment annulled the provisions on bonuses. In particular, the Council of State destroyed the words "except on their own site' in Article 5.1 as well as the entire text of Article 11. These provisions regulated the situations in which bonuses were still admissible in limited circumstances. The Council of State considered that bonuses should be seen as gifts prohibited by the Gaming Act. From now on, the gambling websites are prohibited from offering bonuses to their customers. I am convinced that the ban on bonuses will slow down players to immediately wager high amounts. The Gaming Commission will actively monitor the ban on online bonuses. Such an infringement shall be subject to criminal sanctions. In the second judgment, the Council of State considered that stricter rules for online casinos and slot rooms than for online betting constitute a breach of the principle of equality. The Council of State therefore destroyed the first paragraph of Article 1 and the second and third paragraphs of Article 3 of the Royal Decree. The ratio to introduce such stricter rules for the first two categories, namely online casinos and slot rooms, was its addictive character. However, according to the Council of State, there is insufficient evidence that they appeal to a different clientele. As a result, online casinos and slot rooms are also subject to the same less stringent advertising rules as online betting. In the same judgment, the provisions restricting advertising during the broadcasting of sporting events remain in place, with the exception that advertising for online casinos and slot rooms is now possible during that broadcast, because of the equal treatment of the three categories of games. A possible amendment to the Gaming Act is due to Parliament. I will see for myself what adjustments to the Royal Decree are still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. As far as bonuses are concerned, this decision is a good one. After all, they have an impact on attracting players, with all the consequences. With this pronunciation, the ball is now in the control body's camp. The Gaming Commission has a very important task here because we know that bonuses are still being sent and that they are being advertised. Sometimes that happens in a hidden way and not literally anymore. For example, one can now save things, coins and the like. I will perhaps ask other questions about this next week, because people are getting somewhat creative in circumventing the rules and I believe that the Gaming Commission has an important role to play here. Mr Minister, I think there is only one solution to advertising. We must no longer make a distinction, let us simply ensure that there is no more advertising for all kinds of gambling products. Then we don't have to make a distinction anymore. A major ban on advertising, as is the case with tobacco products, is the only option. Our bill is ready. I know that I will be able to count on your support and that of many colleagues. I therefore hope that we will be able to enter into this debate here in Parliament within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u35	Madam President, Minister, in recent months the Centre for Integrity (CINT) conducted an investigation into possible irregularities in the Gaming Commission. The CINT would have reached astonishing findings and conclusions. Five serious violations of integrity would have been identified according to media coverage, because we have not yet been able to see the report. These include misuse of public funds, intercepting e-mails, abuse of power and accepting the benefits of gaming companies. If this is true, it puts a bomb under the workings of the Gaming Commission. The allegations are particularly serious. As a result of this investigation, you decided on 25 February to turn some of the top players of the Gaming Commission into inactive. It was supposed to be four people. I have the following questions. What are the main findings and conclusions to be drawn from the CINT report? How will the leadership of the Gaming Commission now be assured? Is a temporary top man or woman appointed to ensure continuity? After all, my fear is that in a number of gambling companies the champagne corks will explode if this situation drags on for a long time and the summit of the Gaming Commission remains decapitated for a long time. Are there any other tests? For example, will a forensic audit be carried out? For example, the Federal Audit Service or an external audit company can be used for this purpose. After all, there are suspicions of possible conflicts of interest, corruption and bribery. The President's term of office has long expired. The President-in-Office of the Council is now known. Why has no new President been appointed yet? When will that happen? There are no less than six Cabinets represented on the Board of Directors of the Gaming Commission, including your policy cell. Haven't the representatives of all these cabinets ever called the alarm bell? How did the representatives of your cabinet brief you? How many times did they do that? Have they informed you of any irregularities or problems with the functioning of the committee? The current composition of the Gaming Commission is not sustainable. A completely new interpretation is required. Do you agree that the Gaming Commission should have a completely new composition? I'm sure you'll answer that in the affirmative, but then we'll have to work on it together quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u36	Madam President, Minister, in recent months the Centre for Integrity has been silently investigating possible fraud and corruption in the Gaming Commission. The detectives would have identified five serious integrity violations in the gokwaak dog.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u37	Mr Minister, we are very attentive to the gambling sector and to the operation of the Commission. What we have had to read is not gratifying, and rather worrying: misuse of public funds, abuse of power or acceptance of gifts by gambling companies. This was included in the press at the start of a report that could not be read. These facts are particularly serious and worrying in view of the standards of independence and integrity that we are entitled to expect from this Commission, and from all the officials of our country. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the content of this report, which we have read only excerpts of. It is worrying to see a situation so deteriorated while representatives of several ministerial cabinets – including yours – accompany the gambling commission. Have you ever decided on sanctions or are you planning to do so? If so, which ones? What reform(s) are you considering to prevent such events in the future? The President of the Commission is to be replaced. Should we not review the composition of the Commission and introduce more systematic and non-pointed integrity controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u38	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, Mrs Depraetere, Mr Gilkinet, I have examined the Federal Ombudsman's report in detail and made the necessary consultations. The President of the FPS Justice and I have taken the appropriate measures against the persons whose functioning is questioned in the report. These measures were necessary to preserve the integrity of the service. Fully independent of this, the prosecutor conducts an investigation into possible criminal offences. The conclusions of the report of the Federal Ombudsman's Integrity Centre are confidential. The Minister and the President of the FPS Justice received this report. The persons concerned have received the relevant part of the findings. The leadership of the Gaming Commission is assured. On 2 March, a crisis manager was appointed from the FPS Justice Department to take charge of the secretariat. As far as the chairman of the committee is concerned, I try to address the Council of Ministers as soon as possible in order to ensure the best possible continuity and operation of the Gaming Commission. I would like to point out that the Gaming Commission is not a hierarchical superior of the Secretariat. The Gaming Commission is assisted for its day-to-day operation by a secretariat, consisting of attachés and administrative staff, who are officials of the FPS Justice in support of the Gaming Commission. The Gaming Commission comes together about once a month with a triple task: it gives advice to the government and to Parliament, it decides on the granting of different types of licences and it acts as the supervisory body of the sector. Needless to say, the rules of ethics also apply to staff members of the secretariat of the gambling commission. I will ask the crisis manager to bring this matter to the attention of the staff. With regard to the decisions of the gambling commission, I would like to point out that there are possibilities for redress in the gambling law that offer effective protection to the persons concerned. With respect to control, I believe that all violations of the gambling law must be investigated. In addition, each report shall be sent to the competent prosecutor's office. As I have already said before this Parliament when the legislation was debated in order to restrict advertising for gambling, I have long been in favour of full reform and full new governance. However, each decision is the result of a consensus. In addition to the Minister of Justice, there are five other federal colleagues responsible: Finance, Public Health, Economics, Home Affairs and National Lottery. Nevertheless, important steps have been taken in the past legislature to put player protection first and to improve the functioning of the Gaming Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any case, I am pleased that a crisis manager has been appointed and I hope that the man or woman who has been appointed will be able to take effective control very quickly to ensure continuity of operation. That is absolutely necessary. We know that there is a lot of work on the Gaming Commission. As you said, it must take many decisions and grant licences, but there must also be a lot of checks. If this falls silent... we know how the conversions of the gambling companies increase and how often one searches the grey zone or goes about it. It is really important, as the previous question shows, that this monitoring task is taken very seriously. I am also concerned about continuity, including with regard to the police, a number of police officers or liaison officers who take on very specific police tasks. The question is to what extent this task can be continued, given that there are specific investigations that cannot be taken over by the secretariat. You have not really answered my questions about the signals that may or may not have been sent to your cabinet or to the other Cabinets in all these years. It seems to me that it is also an important task, pending the new structure, to examine with your colleagues how the Cabinets concerned can actually exercise control and be able to identify problems much faster than they are now. Finally, we agree that the Gaming Commission will have to be changed. She must become a real watchdog, who not only cheats or barks, but also dares to bite. That's what we really need, and that's the challenge, for a next government maybe. In any case, wherever this dossier comes from, you will always find a partner in this House to create a strong regulator, a strong watchdog for the gambling world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u40	Minister, it is good that a number of measures were taken so quickly. The most important thing, as you yourself say, is that this reform will come as soon as possible. We agree with you on this. This reform has not been successful in recent years. You have been able to take a lot of measures, but the essence is that the Gaming Commission can really become a watchdog. There are a lot of parties involved, which, of course, makes it difficult, but the facts that are now before us are serious enough to move quickly towards reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u41	Minister, thank you. In the debate on coronavirus, it is pointed out that many ministers at several levels of power are in charge of this issue. I realize that when it comes to gambling, ministers from the same government fail to work together effectively. Anyway, that's what I'm decoded from your answer. There should be agreement that the role of the gambling commission is, first, to protect players and, second, to combat all forms of corruption and financial crime. We know that when there is a lot of money at stake, there is a higher risk of being involved in such crimes. The profits of the National Lottery or the taxes collected must be second in relation to these objectives. That is why it is necessary to fundamentally reform the gambling committee. A crisis manager has been appointed. Let us hope that things will work both well and badly in the expectation of more structural reforms. In any case, this sector, which is highly competitive and develops very aggressive commercial practices, cannot be left without a strong gendarmerie. You're talking about your willingness to reform things. I can tell you that with Stefaan Van Hecke, we share this will and we are ready to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u42	Minister, the prison staff again denounced on 21 February, during a general strike, the conduct of social consultation on the implementation of minimum service plans in prisons in the event of a strike. We have repeatedly raised the non-compliance of minimum service plans with the law of March 23, 2019, which you allow yourself to impose unilaterally. This is the same law behind which you are escaping in order to justify your passage into force. According to Article 16, §2, of the Law of 23 March 2019, no requisition of strike agents is possible in the first 48 hours of strike. However, the minutes of the meeting of January 29, 2020 – of which we have a copy – imply that a requisition is possible from the first day of strike. I quote: "It is the Director who, at the time he receives notice of strike, will draw up the plans day by day taking into account this maximum and minimum limit and the needs of the day. If there are not enough volunteers to provide the minimum service, the Director will appeal to the provincial governor and advise him of the number of positions to be filled. For day-long strikes, directors will never ask for more than the minimum, 25% less than the maximum in large prisons and 20% less than the maximum in small prisons." Moreover, this flexibilisation of operational plans – i.e. a reduction of 25 to 20% – is not provided for by law, let alone by the Royal Decree of 4 August 2019. The applicable rules are likely to differ according to the Director who will have to make this decision in an arbitrary manner. As a result, it is clear that your plans do not respect the will of the legislator. While the government is in day-to-day business, you allow yourself to fundamentally change the policy in complete violation of our constitutional right and the separation of powers. Minister, how is it possible to implement minimum service plans that are contrary to the Act of March 23, 2019? How do you justify this explicit violation? As I said, this strike of 21 February denounced your minimum service plans in prisons, violent attacks on workers' right to strike. Despite this, on February 24, you announced your decision to carry out these same minimum service plans in force and unilaterally. You are tired of repeating that this minimum service is necessary following the report of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture. However, the same report repeatedly denounces the problem of the lack of care in prisons and, in particular, in social defence institutions (ESDs), except in the case of strikes. The lack of medical facilities has an enormous impact on the working conditions of both medical and surveillance personnel and is detrimental to the health of the incarcerated population with, unfortunately, extremely tense situations. At the EDS in Paifve, the nursing framework to fulfill the minimum service plan that you unilaterally impose has not been respected once for more than 70 days. Since December 11, 2019, the lack of psychiatrists has meant that the average medical presence is less than two minutes per intern per day. In the end, Minister, can you elaborate on the minimum service plan of the Paifve Social Defence Institution? Does this plan meet the agreement of management and trade union delegation? Does it take into account the specificity, particularly in terms of psychiatric treatment and follow-up, of ESD? What are the annual medical facilities allocated to the Paifve ESD?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u43	Madam President, Mr Boukili, the law of 23 March 2019 is clear: the operational plan per prison sets out the services to be performed and the measures to be taken by prison staff to provide the essential services provided for in that law. The plans are made uniformly, taking into account the particularities of each prison. They were submitted for consultation within the basic consultation committees. My last and final proposal, dated 29 January, is formulated in a comprehensive manner and must be calculated as prison by prison. It contains a minimum threshold of 20 or 25 per cent less than the number of staff members who must always be present on a daily basis as required. This threshold is 20 per cent lower for prisons with less than 200 inmates and 25 per cent lower for prisons with more than 200 inmates. On the first day of the strike, the director can never ask more than the minimum. This range is a way of indicating that there is always a certain margin and that targeted adaptations are possible in each prison depending on the day of strike and the activities that are planned on that day such as the Sunday shower, for example, the day of court hearings, the day of visits, etc. This allows management to adapt the plan in order to respond to certain situations, circumstances and other specificities. With regard to your question about Paifve's social defence institution, as far as this plan is concerned, no agreement has been reached between the authorities and the trade unions within the Paifve basic consultation committee held on 11 September 2019. The aspect of care has been taken into account. This is why the medical staff was very present during a day of strike. It concerned eight people. There is also a need to distinguish between services that work as an independent person (business contract) and those that are personnel per se. The resources allocated are annexed to this reply. All these groups should be able to work during the guaranteed minimum service because they will have access to patients. As regards the medical facilities allocated annually to Paifve, I also refer you to the annex to my reply. Psychiatric treatment and follow-up are therefore guaranteed because our independent employees can simply continue to work. Activities can be cancelled during strikes with minimum service but not care. For example, drugs are administered. Somatic and psychiatric consultations continue and emergencies are monitored. However, focus groups may be cancelled as well as certain activities, such as cooking classes or creative workshops. For the sake of detail, I will forward to the secretariat of this Commission, as an annex to my reply, a document concerning the operational plan of the Paifve ESD.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. You confirmed what I quoted, but I did not get a clear answer. Do these measures not conflict with the law of 23 March 2019? They do not respect the spirit of the legislator. You know, there's no problem. However, prison staff are still planning a strike on 6 March, in particular because this agreement has not been accepted by trade unions and prison staff. Minister, you are the only one who approves this agreement. And it is for this reason that this movement of prison guards continues. But, I repeat, to hear you, there is no problem. I therefore have no answer to my question about the contradiction between this measure and the spirit of the law of 23 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u45	Minister, during this strike, on February 21, I met with the workers and talked to them. In many of their testimonies, they denounce the increase in the number of young people engaged on the basis of the first job system, otherwise called "Rosetta Plan". They are concerned about the lack of training of these few – insufficient – new recruits engaged to complement the staff cadre. Fabrice explains: "In 2007, the training lasted six months. Minister Geens has increased this training to 50 days and now gives uniforms to young people who have not been able to benefit from any training in conflict management or self-defence." Julie adds: "The minister forgets that behind the prison guards he totally despises, there are also fathers and mothers of families. Every day, we work in an alarming insecurity." It appears that the young person hired on the basis of the "Plan Rosetta" follows only a superficial training of eight days, which has an impact on the safety of the young person, but also of the whole team in which he works. In addition, at the end of the quarter when these young people are 26 years old, the occupation of people under contract Rosetta is finally stopped. This measures aggravates the turnover and in no way addresses the structural problem of understaffing. Currently, how many people are hired under Rosetta contracts for all prisons? What training have these people received under this Rosetta contract? What has been the development of training for prison officers over the past 20 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u46	Mr. Boukili, 154.25 full-time equivalent staff members are currently employed under Rosetta contracts in prisons, of which 124.60 are prison supervision assistants. Sixty former Rosetta contract employees have started their internship since 2018. These people take part in a ten-day training course. The training days also provide for observation days in the field. Subjects such as dynamic security, staff missions, communication, ethics, appeals, movements, search procedures, etc., are taught theoretically and practically. In taking up their duties, mentors provide on-the-ground leadership on their mission. In the past, the training of prison officers has been professionalized at regular intervals. Under the Prison Act, measures have been integrated into the management of training by prison schools. Thus, promotion is linked to the degree of success of the training module – which is a motivating element. Indeed, the law links career to the success of training. Over the last 20 years, training has evolved from 4 weeks of basic training, 120 hours of theory and 20 hours of practice from 1997, to 13 weeks from 2007, to 6 months from November 2010 and to 50 days of theoretical training – 350 hours – from September 2016. Practically, emphasis is placed on practical exercises in support of the theory taught, most often in a simulation wing. For the sake of detail, I will forward to the secretariat of this committee, as an annex to my reply, a document describing the development of training over the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think I don't teach you anything by saying that the job of prison guard is very difficult, requiring a lot of skill and attention. The limitation of training to 50 days – whereas previously it lasted 6 months – may affect its quality. Secondly, the use of the "Rosetta Plan" does not seem to me to meet the needs of the sector in terms of staff engagement. Would it not be more effective to propose normal long-term contracts instead of imposing plans that engage young people or encourage turnover – which is unfavourable to the acquisition of sufficient experience to do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u48	Minister, at hearings in October 2019 in the Justice Committee on the Criminal Code, Mr Bosquet (AVOCATS.BE) said: "What matters is what prison system we want to put in place to reduce the lack of accompaniment and follow-up linked to confinement and which create an inevitable recurrence. This recidivism is, economically speaking, a disaster. In Scandinavian countries, ways have been found to implement measures that have reduced recidivism. This is a political choice. Today, a maximum prison is being built in Haren." Recall that Haren's new prison complex is expected to be established in the spring of 2022. Like master Bosquet, prison staff, residents, civil society, experts, judges, lawyers and academics, we do not agree with the choice that has been made with regard to Haren's prison project for various reasons. In particular, we believe that it is preferable to opt for a diversification of our prison system. If we want more security measures for the detention of dangerous criminals, we also want small jails for young offenders, close to their homes where contacts with their families and guards occupy the central place. We want more small transitional structures for those serving the last year of their sentence, with intensive support for their reintegration into society. In June 2019, you said about Haren's project that "concerning the size of the prison, the prison will be made up of several small entities". Minister, as far as Haren's future prison is concerned, what do you call small entities? How many are there? What are their characteristics in terms of accompaniment and monitoring of confinement? How many of these entities will be closed, semi-open and open respectively? What measures have been envisaged to maintain inmate contacts with their families and to compensate for the location of the site?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u49	Madam President, Mr Boukili, Brussels prisons currently have many inmates. The capacity of Haren prison is therefore justified. In the project, we have therefore tried to work on small entities through differentiation. These entities should be regarded as autonomous living units of various sizes. For example, the capacity of a unit of life within the men's prison is 34 places. It is 28 in the prison, 30 in the women's section, 11 in the open section, outside the perimeter for women, and 7 to 8 in the observation unit. There will also be a mother-child section with a capacity of 5 places. By way of comparison, a wing of Saint-Gilles Prison can currently accommodate 150 prisoners. The exact regime of each entity is not yet determined. The aim will be to operate as much as possible with an open or semi-open regime. Of course, the open section for women will be outside the perimeter. Despite the large capacity of the establishment, its operation can be qualified on a small scale. Maximum attention will be paid to the most autonomous functioning of each unit of life in which daily life (meals, communal relaxation, laundry, ironing of clothes) will follow its course. Some units are cluster units. Thus, for example, in the prison, each group of three living units will form a cluster with two classrooms, a space dedicated to activities, a computer room, a room dedicated to sociocultural activities and a fitness. The above-mentioned concept also focuses on how to organize many trips to the site. Thus, an inmate will regularly have to leave the building housing his unit of life to go to another building, depending on employment, visits, etc. Contact with the outside area and green spaces is a break in style compared to conventional movements in an ordinary prison. Haren Prison will increase opportunities for Brussels inmates to serve their sentences in their area. Finally, the Haren prison will have enough visiting rooms, but also specific for children. The establishment will also have spaces for family visits and intimate visits. The tram and bus lines between Heysel and Brussels airport which stop at Haren Prison will ensure additional accessibility to public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u50	Minister, thank you for this information. These are the details I wanted to get.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u51	Madam President, Minister, we were recently informed that the FPS Justice has launched a call for tenders to entrust to a private operator all the arrangements of the future room in which the trial of the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 will take place, namely the former NATO premises, which are now empty. The private operator must not only carry out the works but also ensure the security of the site, manage the infrastructure during the trial, monitor the premises, provide kitchens and organize the restoration, provide a room equipped with a retransmission screen, arrange an adequate signage in the building, a computer network, an internet connection, etc. In short, this subcontractor will be entrusted with the entire management and organization of the building for the six to nine months that the trial is expected to last. This is a large market with an informal price of around EUR 20 million. Indeed, this historic trial is also announced as the most expensive in Belgian judicial history, since the necessary adjustments have been estimated at more than 19 million euros. In comparison with some European countries that are victims of terrorist attacks, such as France, our judicial expenditure could be three times higher than theirs. This choice confirms that the trend within Belgian public services is outsourcing, and justice does not escape it. However, the arguments in favour of privatization, even partial privatisation, of public services are denied by the facts: the results of privatisations are generally negative or even catastrophic. So how do you justify the choice of a private operator, Minister? Who is this operator? Do you intend to refuse a new collaboration with G4S, known for its involvement in the settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories? Has the terms of reference for the development work already been drawn up? If so, can we get a copy? If not, can you give us an exact breakdown of the criteria used to obtain this estimate? How will this infrastructure be allocated after the trial is closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u52	Madam President, Mr Boukili, the Justice FPS does not have sufficient capacity in terms of staff and technical expertise and is not able to make its capacity permanently available during the trial. For these reasons, it is necessary to use only one successful tenderer, who, together with the SPF (which of course retains the final management), will be responsible for the overall coordination and full management of the following support services: supervision and hospitality, catering, adaptation to buildings and technical installations, room and outbuildings, maintenance of security installations, HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) and other technical installations, maintenance of the ground and cleaning. The market, through a competitive procedure with negotiation, was published at the end of July 2019 at European level. Two consortia have submitted their applications in the first phase of this procedure. The two bidders met the selection criteria and were subsequently selected to participate in the procedure. As the contract is still in progress, the successful tenderer and the final price are not yet known. Of course, the specifications cannot be made available for safety reasons. In view of the progress of the assize trial in France concerning the attacks on Bataclan, the terraces and the Stade de France, the beginning of the assize trial in Belgium concerning the attacks of 22 March 2016 is currently, on the basis of information from the federal prosecutor, planned in September 2021 for a period of six to nine months. The site will be temporarily made available to the FPS Justice by the Department of Defence as of June 1, 2020. It is too early to advance an end date or how the site will be allocated thereafter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u53	Minister, I understand the argument that you justify appealing to an outside firm. That said, the firm in question will not do so out of charity, but for the benefits it can derive from it. This money would have done the CPF Justice funds good if the necessary investments had been made to manage such trials instead of delegating them to the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u54	Madam President, Minister, on March 8, the International Day of Struggle for Women's Rights will be held. Millions of women, in Belgium but also in the rest of the world, will demonstrate for more equality and rights. They will act against violence and sexism. They will strike, because "if women stop, the world stops." One of the specific demands is that violence against women should become a priority for justice. Women find that women-specific cases do not receive the same attention from the judiciary. To mention just a few figures illustrating the extent of this phenomenon: 1 in 4 women is sexually abusive at work according to a study of domestic workers and women in the cultural sector; 1 in 7 women are victims of domestic violence. In the world, 1 in 3 women face violence in their lives. The number of rapes per day is estimated at 100, of which only 8 are reported; 1 rape in 100 is convicted. For a study commissioned by the European Commission, Danièle Zucker, a specialist in criminal behaviour analysis, who treated more than 1,000 rape victims in Belgium, looked at the Belgian courts' handling of 100 rape cases. In the sample studied, half of the authors remained unknown. Of the remaining 50, 4 were tried, 3 were suspended, and one was sentenced to an effective sentence. In particular, it casts light on the number of complaints filed that are rejected or remain unsuccessful. Minister, what have you done to fight this? How is it that, as this analysis shows, the results are obviously not on the table? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u55	Madam President, Mr Boukili, I would like to refer you to my previous detailed replies specifically on the fight against violence against women, which I gave in this committee, in plenary sitting of the House and at hearings of the Committee on Social Emancipation. Together with all the other partners in the chain, justice has made many efforts that have borne fruit. However, it will first take many years of political attention, effort and intense awareness before we can see the results of the new policy. In addition, increased political attention also means an increase in complaints and the willingness to file complaints from victims. Given the dark number, which is believed to be high, the margin of progression is significant. It is important that the many political levels simultaneously deliver the same social signal. In this context, I refer to the action plan against sexual violence against women, which was developed at my initiative and shared with the ICD (Interdepartmental Conference) on Women's Rights, the ICD on the Houses of Justice and with the drafters of the new national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence. There is also a need for greater political focus on this phenomenon in the national integrated police security plan and in the framework note on comprehensive security. Justice is explicitly committed, particularly with regard to research and prosecution policy. Nevertheless, the criminal approach can only be associated with the policy of prevention and the awareness-raising of society in general. I also refer to the hearing on 20 November 2019 in this committee in the presence of the Attorney General of Liège and the main coordinator of the network of expertise on crimes against persons, which has set up a risk assessment tool which will soon be incorporated into a new directive. I refer again to the pilot project on harassment alerts which was deployed and which was explained in the Justice Committee by the Chief of Staff of the Ghent Police Area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do not question your willingness to respond to the problem, but I note that the figures are there and that they are worrying. Instead, awareness-raising work must be considered and a comprehensive plan to combat violence against women is needed to ensure that women are not at risk or risk of being ill-treated. This is one of the greatest injustices in our society and it is time to put in place a comprehensive plan to combat this scourge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u57	Mr Minister, on 9 January 2019, the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels ordered the Belgian State to reduce the number of persons detained in the prisons of Saint-Gilles and Forest to the number of places corresponding to the maximum capacity allowed in these institutions, i.e. a maximum number of 180 prisoners within wings A, B and C of the prison of Forest and a maximum number of 549 prisoners within the prison of Saint-Gilles, on penalty of penalty. The amounts of periodic penalty payments are calculated on the basis of the date of service of the judgement and the number of inmates incarcerated beyond the authorized prison capacity. This corresponds, in the six months of service, to EUR 1 000 per day and per inmate, in the year of service to EUR 2 000 per day and per inmate, and in the following years to EUR 4 000 per day and per inmate. Since the judgment was served on the Belgian State on 7 March 2019, this means that, if no concrete measures are taken to deal with prison overcrowding in these Brussels prisons, the Belgian State will be liable, as of 7 March 2020, i.e. next Saturday, for a penalty payment of EUR 300 000 per day, if it takes the estimate of 850 prisoners currently incarcerated in Saint-Gilles. Therefore, Minister, do you confirm the amount of EUR 300 000 a day in the event of failure by the Federal State to combat overcrowding in these institutions? What measures have been taken to combat prison overcrowding between the date of service of the judgement of March 7, 2019 and March 7, 2020, the date of payment of periodic penalty payments? Otherwise, how do you justify it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u58	Minister, I will not recall what my colleague has just said. It was regrettable, however, that a judicial conviction was necessary to remind the Belgian State of its obligations towards detainees. I have no doubt about your good faith or your good will to see things evolve. On the merits of the case, what have you put in place since the judgment to reduce this overcrowding? What analysis are you doing? Indeed, despite what you have implemented, these figures do not vary. How can we consider the follow-up since, presumably, the choices made are not followed by the expected effects, i.e. a decrease in prison overcrowding? Thank you for the answers you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u59	Minister, the order of lawyers has instituted a number of proceedings against the Belgian State to hold the State liable for overpopulation in prisons. One procedure has already led to a conviction. On 9 January 2019, the French-speaking Chamber of the Court of First Instance of Brussels ruled that the Belgian State is indeed liable for inhuman and degrading treatment and, on the other hand, the overpopulation in the prisons of Prince and Saint Gillis. The periodic penalty payments would normally start from 1 September 2019, but you have entered into dialogue with the orders, giving you more time to look for a solution. This extra time is now running out and we have heard that the order wants to go further. As the honourable Member has already outlined, the total amount involved is no less than EUR 300,000 per day. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What measures have you taken since 9 January 2019 to comply with the judgment? What short-term measures are you planning to take? Will you dispute the recovery of the periodic penalty payments? If so, on what basis? If not, how will we get paid? Are there any procedures pending for other prisons? How do you prepare yourself for that if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the way I prepare for such issues is by building new prisons as soon as possible. I would like to see you do this together with feminine efficiency. Mr Boukili, you know a lot about women and you have heard that. I would be pleased to see that this would involve female efficiency, because I am pleased to say that it is far too slow and I have limited female gifts, but I have them, Madam President. Since my appointment as Minister of Justice, I have waged an ongoing fight against the overcrowding. I have been able to reduce the number of prisoners by more than 1,000 units, including through the outflow of interned persons, the more effective repatriation of convicted persons without the right of residence and the further implementation of electronic surveillance in the context of pre-trial detention. Other measures, such as the proposal to limit the scope of provisional detention and the temporary measure of extended penitentiary leave, have, as you know, come up against opposition. In addition to the construction of new infrastructure, I have ensured that significant investments are made in existing infrastructure: 122 million euros have been invested in prisons by the Régie des Bâtiments over the last four years. You will agree that it is better to invest in infrastructure improvements than in the payment of periodic payments. With regard to court decisions on prison overcrowding in Saint-Gilles – there are none in Forest, although I had to close Forest half because of a mayor's order – I can tell you the following. On 29 July 2019, the Brussels court of first instance ruled on our application concerning periodic penalty payments imposed by the same court by a judgment of 9 January 2019. This is the court of periodic penalty payments, which decided on its own periodic penalty payments. The court decided, with respect to our application, that it was founded because of the temporary physical impossibility of execution and the court therefore delayed the enforceability of the periodic penalty payments by six months from September 7, 2019, that is, until March 7. It's this Saturday, you already knew, but I have to explain it to those who are going to read the answer, Mrs. Khattabi. After the judgement of 29 July, I immediately took steps, together with the prisons and the Régie des Bâtiments, to align the capacity of the cells with the population of the prison of Saint-Gilles, which in recent days has an average of about 840 inmates. After obtaining the approval of the Minister of Budget, a public invitation to tender was launched and work on partitioning sanitary facilities in the cells was awarded. In view of the legal deadlines for the allocation of this type of work and its actual implementation, the work actually started on Monday, the day before yesterday. I don't know if you already know. You don't seem to ignore anything. They started with a realization of ten cells a day. The contractor has 40 working days to renovate 360 cells by the end of April. As a result, the capacity of the cells will be adapted to the current number of inmates. Other work is also planned and / or under way in the prison, including the telephone. Although the prison in Saint-Gilles is meant to be closed in 2020, as you yourself said, Mr Boukili, I am doing everything possible to further improve the infrastructure of Saint-Gilles so that we can meet the expectations of the OBFG and probably also those of the prisoners. I don't know if the OBFG intends to claim the penalty payments in the meantime. Maybe you know that. If this is the case, there is a legal possibility for the Belgian State to apply to the seizure judge in order to prove that every effort has been made to comply with the judgment, both in legal and factual terms. Judicial proceedings relating to the prisons of Lantin and Mons are still under way. I follow them very closely with my administration and I will also take appropriate action after the judgement has been delivered. Help me build as quickly as possible in Verviers, Bassenge, Vresse-sur-Semois, Paifve and other places, because we urgently need new prisons to make overcrowding less intensive and less intolerable because, from time to time, the old prisons leave something to be desired in terms of quality of life, when it comes to putting several people in one cell.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u61	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I hear that measures have been taken, even though I regret that they were taken very late. Indeed, it was necessary to take measures to comply with this judgment of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. However, in the end, this judgment merely repeated what had already been said to you by other convictions and also at European level. Several times, Belgium has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights because of overcrowding in our prisons. We have waited for the state to be threatened with penalties so that, in the end, it can really move. I regret this, although I am particularly pleased that a call for tenders has been launched to bring these cells into line in the prisons of Forest and Saint-Gilles to ensure the dignity of the detainees. However, I wonder why this decision was taken so late. I would also like to point out that, even though the prison population in our prisons has generally decreased, in Saint-Gilles prison the overcrowding has increased. You advanced the figure of 840 today, while in 2016 it was 740. There are circumstances specific to this prison that make us in this situation. Because some wings had to be closed, overcrowding had increased, making the conditions of detention more difficult. It's because, for too long, you've focused on that "solution" Haren's prison. For the reasons we know, this project has taken so long to conclude that, throughout this time, by focusing on this solution, we have not taken matters into our own hands in order to renovate these cells or wings in good time. As you yourself say, there was indeed a possibility of renovation for some prisons. Finally, I regret your speech of saying that the solution is to continue to build new prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u62	You wouldn't want to destroy them, would you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u63	In any event, we must take a consistent approach to our consideration of the reform of the Penal Code and to the rather laudable objectives that you presented to us at the beginning of the previous legislature, including the reduction of prison sentences. We had been quite seduced by your speech, before seeing you take measures such as extending the length of prison sentences in the event of correction. Today, we expect with some fear the effects of these measures on prison overcrowding in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u64	Mr. Minister, you will certainly be informed before me if any periodic penalty payments were to be claimed. I will then ask you the question, if any. Like my colleague Sophie Rohonyi, I regret that we continue to believe that the construction of new infrastructure will remedy the problem of overcrowding in prisons. On this subject, allow me – without feeling personally targeted, minister – to repeat the words of Albert Einstein, who said: "Insanity is always to do the same thing and to expect a different result." Of course, the idea of opening new places is in the air. However, it is well known that the more places there will be, the more likely it will be to send people to prison, which will have no effect on prison overcrowding. I therefore agree with my colleague on what you said last year in the context of the reform of the Criminal Code, and on your willingness to broaden the scope and to change the paradigm, so that the prison sentence is a penalty in the same way as others. As everyone knows, one of the many factors behind prison inflation is the excessive use of pre-trial detention. Unfortunately, the amendments to pre-trial detention contained in the Act of 5 February 2016 amending criminal law and procedure and introducing various provisions in the field of justice have only had the effect of further prolonging pre-trial detention. In this case, the supervision of continued detention is increased from one to two months from the third decision of the Chamber of Council, which further limits the possibility of release and affects the number of preventive detainees in prisons. This is just one example among others. This is an example that shows that you can play on this figure without creating any additional costs, and without requiring a relatively long timing. We see it here with the idea of the construction of the new prisons. I'll finish with Haren. Haren was not meant to offer new places. There, I'll join you completely on quality, if you can say that – it's almost indecent – of the cells made available to the inmates. Haren's mission was also to respond to the unsanitary state of the prisons of Forest and Saint-Gilles. Let's be careful and watch out. Yes, there is work to be done on the stone to improve the conditions of detention and restore their dignity to these detainees. But there are other measures. The OBFG had put on the table 23 proposals which reduce prison overcrowding and which, I believe, are part of the philosophy that you had put forward in the context of the reform of the penal code. I will not fail, minister, to come back with some of these measures to see how and how far they can be implemented to respond quickly to this concern about prison overcrowding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u65	Where should I start? Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad you shared with us the fact that you also have a feminine side. However, that was not the answer I was expecting. I had hoped to hear you say that you would take a number of measures to avoid periodic penalty payments. I am glad that you are trying to do that, too, because let us be honest, it is a lot of money that is better spent in another way. I myself might spend it differently than my colleagues. You know my party's point of view: the prison population should not be adapted to capacity, but capacity to population. I agree with the argument that prison is the ultimate remedy, but sometimes it is really necessary. You have already done a great deal to relieve the prisons, in all kinds of alternative ways, but sometimes a prison sentence is simply necessary. In the Netherlands, it was once decided that any prison sentence, however short, should be carried out. In doing so, however, the capacity has been expanded and many cells have been added. That measure proved to be working. After all, the real problem lies in the execution of the sentence. The ball is not played short, the penalty is not carried out fast enough or only after a number of convictions. That's the biggest problem. In the Netherlands they did, and at some point they could even rent out the prison of Tilburg to us. There are still procedures pending and I have no doubt that you will continue to follow up. If it were to come to a new conviction, I would suggest the following. It is EUR 300,000 per day, or EUR 9 million per month. I don't have to tell you how much the annual rent of the cells in Tilburg has cost, but I think that for the money we lost on periodic penalty payments, we should rent a prison and still have money left. I don't think it's a good alternative to just releasing everyone. If a prison sentence is the ultimate cure, then it should be used as well. I invite my fellow MEPs to talk to the police more often. As mayor, I have arranged to contact my police forces. I know their frustrations. I hear you talking about remand and everyone's getting arrested. It frustrates the police that they are making so much effort to apprehend people and protect society, because that's what it's all about, and then it's about finding that arrested people come out through the revolving door. Sometimes a prison sentence is really necessary, and that requires capacity. Period. If there is not enough capacity, we will have to take care of it, if it is in a creative way. Minister, it is not just the procedures that are currently under way. In any case, detentions must take place in a correct and humane manner, and our prisons must indeed be more modern in this respect. Let us not wait for convictions and periodic penalty payments to build prisons. I see how difficult it is to build new prisons, but I just wanted to point out the alternatives. We can also hire a prison until one day society is so safe that, as some people say, prisons will be totally unnecessary. I hope that day will come someday, but allow me to be sceptical about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u66	Madam President, I want to strike a goal. I heard quite a few ladies here talking about the new Criminal Code. We're working on that. I just wanted to signal that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u67	Madam Chair, Minister, this Thursday, February 27, the hearing of the second chamber of the Walloon Brabant Correctional Court could not be held and, ultimately, all files were postponed. The postponement of the hearing had to be proposed because of the lack of magistrates in the Walloon Brabant Court of First Instance. While the legal framework provides for the presence of 27 judges, the actual framework is well below what is provided for in the law. Indeed, for more than two years, between 18 and 21 magistrates would divide the cases. Furthermore, the President of the Court of First Instance pointed out that some judges in the current framework were in fact no longer present. One of them has also been delegated to the Brussels Court of Appeal for three years. Two magistrates would serve part-time. Finally, another judge left the pension in September 2018 and has not yet been replaced. Minister, do you confirm the information provided by the President of the Court of First Instance of Walloon Brabant regarding the lack of judges under the legal framework? If so, what is your position and, above all, the measures you have taken to remedy this situation, which continues to worsen, but also, more generally, to improve the profession of magistrate? When were the calls for applications issued for this court more specifically? How do you explain the difficulties in recruiting these judges in this and other jurisdictions? Unfortunately, I think that is a general problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u68	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, the legal framework of the Court of First Instance of Walloon Brabant consists of 27 judges. At present, 28 magistrates have been appointed, two of whom are on duty in the sentencing court. That makes a total of 26 judges out of a cadre of 27. In view of the vacancy and already anticipating a future departure, two posts were declared vacant on October 11, 2019. Only one application was received for these two vacations. The decision to appoint this only candidate is currently presented to the Minister and will be signed by the King. Before Easter, the new magistrate may take an oath in court. As a short-term measure, I invited the College of Courts and Courts to prepare a list of priority vacancies for a new recruitment plan, taking into account workload. This plan will be developed in the coming weeks based on the available margin of staff resources. In addition, the president of the court announced that four magistrates were currently absent because of illness and that another had been delegated full-time by decision of the first president of the Brussels Court of Appeal in order to strengthen its court. As a result, the number of available staff is actually lower than suggested by the occupation of the framework. I am fully aware of the impact that prolonged absences due to illness can have on a court, particularly in small jurisdictions such as the Walloon Brabant Court of First Instance. However, a magistrate shall retain all of his remuneration during his period of absence on account of illness. It is not legally possible to replace him by a new appointment, That is why, during the previous legislature, I asked the College of the Judiciary and the Judicial Advisory Council to propose a social status suitable for judges, which would also provide a solution to long-term absences due to illness. I'm still a plaintiff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u69	Minister, thank you. Again, you announce several positive news. However, again, I wonder why these good measures are only now taking place. The social status of magistrates is something extremely commendable, for which we have always argued – just like the magistrates. In addition, we are in the business of day-to-day business, so that the realization of this status will not be immediate. I also thank you for the plan that will be developed with the College of Courts and Courts. It is very important to anticipate needs and departures. I assume that, so far, calls for applications were issued too late, so that the process was slowed down and the framework for making decisions within a reasonable time frame was not fulfilled. On the other hand, you highlight the gap between the legal and the actual frameworks. This situation is not normal, since in this case the law is not respected. You also point out the difference between the actual framework and the one that is ultimately observed in these jurisdictions when judges get sick – especially because of their difficult working conditions – or when they are called upon to sit in other jurisdictions. All this must lead us to take another step that you have not mentioned and which I think is just as essential. It is a question of assessing the workload of our courts and tribunals, rather than sticking to the fact that the law has set the framework for the same, and contenting itself with it. We must listen to the judges who tell us that the workload today is such that, no doubt, the legal framework provided for does not meet this burden and their needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u70	Minister, the FPS Justice recently announced that it had simplified the form to allow an inoperative detainee to obtain compensation. This compensation is governed by the Act of 13 March 1973 on compensation for inoperative pre-trial detention, which provides that inoperative detention tends to apply when pre-trial detention is decided and the accused is subsequently not sentenced. In such cases, the person who has been unjustly imprisoned may claim compensation provided that the detention lasts for more than eight days and that the detention as well as its continuation does not result from the conduct of the person deprived of liberty. In 2019, out of 97 claims filed with the Justice FPS, 37 claims were granted for a total amount of €242,601, 21 claims were rejected and 39 claims are still pending. It should be noted that every day spent under electronic surveillance can be treated as a day spent in prison, so that prisoners under electronic supervision have the same possibility of compensation as other prisoners. Minister, if the principle of indemnifying detainees who have finally been acquitted is fully justified, the amounts referred to raise questions with regard to the state's underfunding of our justice, which is supposed to render quality decisions within a reasonable period of time. Minister, do you confirm the figures reported by the press regarding the number of files filed and the total amount of compensation in 2019? How do you explain them? Can you disaggregate the number of files processed and the amount awarded depending on whether they are imprisonment or electronic surveillance? What structural measures have you adopted or are you going to adopt to improve the quality of court decisions and thus limit to the maximum these inoperative detentions – while knowing that no one is bound to the impossible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u71	Mrs Rohonyi, whatever my answer, I fear that by way of reply, you would tell me that everything I do is very commendable, but why did you wait so long? You have not yet been a member of our Parliament for a long time, but I can assure you that for the past five and a half years I have worked continuously and continuously to achieve the goals to be achieved. But I can tell you that if you ever become Minister of Justice, in ten years' time, there will be more work to be done. We can't do everything at the same time, even if we try. I can confirm the numbers because it was the communications department of my department that communicated them. I cannot disaggregate the number of cases processed or the amount awarded depending on whether it is a detention in a prison or an electronic surveillance. In recent years, approximately 10,000 persons per year have been placed in pretrial detention following an arrest warrant issued by the investigating judge. At the conclusion of the judicial investigation, a very small minority of these suspects were not prosecuted by the investigating courts or, later, by the substantive criminal judge. Suspects able to prove that their pre-trial detention was not due to their own conduct may obtain compensation for inoperative detention by ministerial decree and, in the event of an appeal, by an independent commission. Indeed, they are several dozen each year to be in the case. The amount of moral damage varies between 30 and 100 euros per day of detention or electronic surveillance. This amount depends, among other things, on family status, income and possible criminal history. Proven material damage such as loss of income and legal fees (and other costs) may also be compensated. I would like to point out that all decisions concerning pre-trial detention or its extension, without distinction, are made by the judiciary, to which I am not authorized to give instructions because of the separation of powers. Judges shall take such decisions on the basis of the criteria and conditions clearly defined in the Law on Pre-trial Detention. The most important of these criteria and conditions are: the serious evidence of guilt, the absolute necessity for public safety and if the offences cannot be punished by a penalty of more than 15 years, the risk of recidivism or collusion. Finally, on my initiative, the legislative amendment of 25 December 2016 provides that for an applicant still serving prison sentences for another case, it is appropriate to charge the possible days of inoperative detention on them. The same law also provides that all amounts, if any, authorized are offset by outstanding debts due to criminal fines or tax obligations to the State. In some cases, these provisions limit, or even exclude, the amounts to be paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u72	Minister, I am going to surprise you because I will not blame you for not acting on this matter. In this case, as part of your "pot-pourri IV law", the measure was taken to charge pre-trial detention days as inoperative detention, and we had supported this part of this law under the previous legislature. To return to your answer as such, I do not understand why it is not possible to obtain information by disaggregating the figures you have confirmed to us. You claim that it is not possible to break down these figures according to whether they are inoperative detention in an electronic arrest or surveillance facility. We know the number of people who do this type of sentence and therefore I do not understand why this data cannot be classified by type of sentence. As for the fact that these inoperative detentions are really being reduced, it seems to me that the major step to be taken is to refinance our judicial power. It is perfectly inaudible for the public to see that the State has the capacity, even if it is in debt to do so, to pay these compensations when it does not have the capacity to invest in its third power. As far as the compensation procedure itself is concerned, I did my research and understood that it was not full compensation, but that it was a result of certain criteria. As a result, I wonder whether there should be a broader reflection on what this compensation should cover, as well as on the time frame within which the FPS Justice is required to respond. This period is currently six months. Perhaps it should be shortened, since the number of files to be processed is not so large.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u73	For a number of countries, the 16° Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) has already officially entered into force. This Protocol has made it possible for the highest national courts to ask the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) for advisory opinions on the interpretation and application of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u74	Mr Segers, the dossier is fully and technically ready to start the assent procedure. The next step is to submit the bill to the Council of Ministers. In the ongoing period of current cases, given the importance of the instrument for strengthening the overall functioning of the European Court of Human Rights, it seems important to me to go at least further and to submit the draft opinion to the Council of State. I'll introduce that to the government, too. It is not the only expiry of the ratification process that falls within my competence. Two other important dossiers are a UN convention on organ trafficking and a Benelux convention on police cooperation. The urgency of the convention on organ trafficking seems to me to be justified, in particular, by the fact that only one more ratification is needed to set up the committee of States Parties. The Benelux Treaty, in turn, provides for substantial improvements in operational cooperation, which will have a useful impact on the fight against crime, particularly in border areas. The ratification of these two instruments has already progressed, as it has already been discussed in the Council of Ministers and there is already an opinion from the Council of State. I therefore believe that they will soon be able to be presented to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u75	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u76	Under the current circumstances, it is difficult for the police to find an sworn and reliable interpreter for interrogation. This problem also arises for the appointment of telephone tap interpreters. Interpreters need to be extra reliable here. Sensitive information must not leak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u77	Ms Van Vaerenbergh, the ICT services of Justice and Police have developed a technical solution that since 18 February 2020 provides for the police to carry out a targeted search for the persons entered in the national register in terms of desired language and regional availability. It is true that there is no separate category of tap interpreters in the national register. They are in the category of translators-interpreters, because both elements are covered in tap-interpreting. To date, the administration of the FPS Justice has not received any complaints about abuse or any bias of interpreters in tap files. I would also like to add that translators and interpreters are subject to the deontological code. The quality of translators, interpreters and translators shall be measured by checking whether they possess the necessary professional skills on the basis of the diploma or proof of relevant knowledge of the language or languages for which they have been registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u79	Since 29 December 2019 only those who took the oath in December may take the title of sworn translator or interpreter at the court of appeal. Those who are not listed in the national register cannot work as a sworn translator and/or interpreter. The intention was that the register would also become public, so that everyone could easily know who he could contact. In your words: "A modern justice in which citizens trust requires transparency and the commitment of impartial and high-quality experts, tokens and translators." In the meantime, however, it appears that only the court can consult the lists. The FPS justice department acknowledged that those looking for a sworn translator, interpreter or legal expert cannot now consult a globally reliable source.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u80	Mr Segers, EUR 716 826 has already been spent on the development and maintenance of the register. An additional amount of EUR 450 000 has been budgeted for the further necessary developments. In each individual case, it is for the courts to decide on the consequences of a legal act in which any formal conditions would not have been complied with. Any specific legislation that imposes those formal conditions, of which you give two examples, will have to provide for regulation, where appropriate. As regards procedural acts, they shall be provided for in the Civil Code, inter alia in Article 860 (1). Article 555/15 of the Code of Justice is respected, as far as I am aware. During this transitional phase, in which other bodies are unable to consult the register, it can be argued that Article 555/15 applies, irrespective of whether any other sworn translators are available. In a very limited number of cases legalization was refused, because a translator was not included in the list, and registration was requested to allow legalization. It is therefore useful to ask the translator or interpreter in advance for proof of swearing and registration. In order to make it easier for translators to prove their oath, a certificate stating that the person concerned has been entered in the register, may bear the title of sworn translator-interpreter and may accept assignments in that capacity, pending the issue of a provisional ID card, as from next week. In the past, there was no register. If the regulations require an interpreter or translator to be sworn in, it is, as in the past, for the applicant to verify that the person is sworn in. He could and can do so by asking him to submit proof of his oath. If he or she is a sworn translator or interpreter and if it appears that he or she does not have that capacity, he or she risks being sentenced, in addition to any criminal sanctions, to any damage which would result from his or her actions and the appropriation of a title. If the municipalities want to be helpful in your example by submitting a list of sworn translators-interpreters, it is their responsibility to ensure that their list is correct. They may do so by requesting the list from the Registry of the Court. Just in order to make it transparent for all concerned and also to carry out a quality check on who acts as a translator-interpreter or expert for Justice, both in terms of competence and morality, the register and the whole procedure for being entered in the register was established by law. It is only when a guarantee can be given that everyone entered in the register meets the requirements of the law and the register is also technically realized and tested that it can be opened up to third parties as a service of justice. This will be done by 1 December 2021 at the latest. Meanwhile, a great deal has been done, both in connection with the technical implementation of the register and with the inclusion in the provisional register, which is currently only useful for internal use by the Justice Department and, as I have just said, with the police since 18 February 2020. On an earlier oral question, I already replied that the necessary implementing decisions are in full preparation and that efforts are being made to complete them before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic125x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
