ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u1	Mrs. De Block, I suggest we get started immediately, if that's okay with you? You can stay until 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u2	Mr President, I have shortened and summarized my questions as much as possible so that we certainly do not have to spend two minutes on them. Before starting with the first question, I would first like to make a remark. It is particularly scandalous that our questions remain unanswered for so long. These are questions from January, they are still topical, so I'll ask them later. Madam Minister, Mr President, you have both failed on such an important issue as asylum and migration. It is really not justified that we should wait six months for the answer to questions that really wake the people up. The right of control is, after all, at the heart of Parliament. The Minister will stay until 4.30 p.m. How many questions will we have here? Mr President, you should be more careful to exercise our parliamentary right of control. Several written questions have been added to the agenda, which have been waiting six months for an answer or even a statute of limitations and which I have had translated. If we do not even get an answer to that, that is a mockery of our parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u3	Mrs Van Camp, I can determine the agenda of a committee, that is correct, but I am of course dependent on the agenda of the ministers. I know that Mrs De Block has a very difficult agenda. I always try to get Mrs. De Block to our committee as far as possible. I have also had this mentioned several times in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u4	Mr President, I would like to repeat Mrs Van Camp's comment. I am the only minister who has been present in the Chamber for five days this week. I also defended the design. I also do not like the fact that questions remain with the services. Mrs Van Camp, when you had eight written questions translated into oral questions yesterday, the services looked for them. You have already received four answers which had indeed remained. I don't blame the staff, because they're under enormous pressure to perform. The answers to the other four questions were promised to me during the week, before 21 July. Everyone's doing their best. One can only make mistakes if one works. And they work. Some of these questions were also very numerical and took a long time. That won't apply to all eight. I've already had four answers delivered and the remaining four followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u5	Madam Minister, my first question concerns the Teitiota case, where a man claims to be a climate refugee and on that basis wants to be recognised as a refugee, as provided for in the Geneva Convention. For the record, the man's application was rejected, both by judges in New Zealand and by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. However, in their argument, the judges leave an opening somewhere, since they say that the man's life is not in acute danger, but that this will happen. This in some sense opens the door to the recognition of climate refugees as recognised refugees in accordance with Convention standards. We want to make it very clear that this is more than a bridge for our group. For example, Germany has already given the signal that it will never recognise such applicants as refugees, as the status is reserved for people from war zone or with acute risk of life through, for example, persecution. Madam Secretary, have you taken note of this case? What is your position on the matter? Have applications been received in this country in this form and how do you deal with them? What is your position on this matter in international fora? How will you ensure that climate refugees are not included as official refugees according to the Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u6	Mrs Van Camp, this is indeed a special matter. The island on which the applicant is living is threatened by the rise in sea level, although not yet in the short term, and there is certainly no real risk. Until now, no similar request has been made in Belgium. All questions for international protection are, of course, assessed by the CGVS Council for Foreigners. As far as we are concerned, climate refugees - we have verified this - are not covered by the Geneva Convention. That is an important guideline. The definition of refugee in the Refugee Convention is fully supported by the Geneva Convention, so that door is closed. Climate change is, of course, a well-known phenomenon. A different approach is needed here than simply recognising those involved as refugees. There must first be an ambitious approach at international level that is more focused on the prevention of such phenomena. Europe therefore has an important role to play in climate change, as it causes more forced migration and conflicts in the world for perhaps less serious reasons. However, this was an exceptional case and, as you say, asylum was rejected by all the authorities, and that is also the attitude we adopt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u7	That is very clear, Madam Secretary. You also make it very clear that there is no real risk that no applications have yet been received and that climate refugees are not covered by the Geneva Convention. That is the clear signal I wanted to hear from you, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u8	Madam Minister, at the last committee meeting, we mentioned that your figures on asylum and migration seem to indicate that your policy is failing. The inflow is rising, although you deny it, because we see an increase of 19 percent compared to 2018 and 41 percent compared to 2017. For the record, it's about the numbers before the corona crisis, because then, of course, the influx fell. On the basis of these figures, Mr Van Quickenborne said on Twitter irritated that the degree of recognition was falling, as if that would justify your entire policy. Please correct me if I see it wrong, but for me an increased influx with a reduced degree of recognition is not a success at all. This means that a large proportion of the people who come here are making an unjustified application. During the hearings with the CGVS, it even turned out to be more than half. So they say they need asylum when they don't. With an increased influx, this also means that perhaps more people here live in illegality. Madam Secretary, can you confirm that? When you were responsible for this policy under Di Rupo you always showed off with a high degree of recognition. That seems to me to be justified, but how do you explain that your party colleague Van Quickenborne claims otherwise? The most important question is what are you going to do to improve the outflow. What's your plan? After all, these figures are not meant to be written home. What are you going to do about the illegal criminals? Your predecessor, Theo Francken, has made a priority of this, and you have said that we can take care of that as well. I have already received some of the figures for 2019 and if I go through them all year round, there seems to be a decline in the return of illegal criminals. Can you shed some light on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u9	Mr President, in 2019, 6.719 persons were granted protection status by the Commissioner-General. This is both percentageally and in absolute terms less than in the period 2015-2018. The decline in the level of protection is mainly due to the increase in a number of decisions of inadmissibility, especially for subsequent applications and requests from persons already having protection status in another Member State, i.e. Dublin procedures and M status. Since this latter category of persons uses the asylum procedure merely to obtain a right of residence and possible social assistance in Belgium, I have asked the administration to take measures for those groups, so that this improper use can be stopped quickly and decisively, including by very rapid treatment. The first results show that these measures have an impact on the influx of asylum seekers, both in the asylum procedure and in reception. In the topical debate on 3 March, we discussed this. If we then take into account the following requests and requests made by persons who already have protection status in another Member State, about half of the applicants will need protection. This is more than during my previous term of office from 2012 to 2014. That was 22.5 %, 28.1 % and 37.7 %, respectively. It is less than in the period 2015-2018, with 52.7 % in 2015, 57.7 % in 2016 and 50.7 % in 2017. In 2018, when I took over the helm again in December, the figure was 49.1 %. We will forward this table for the report. It is therefore less than in the period 2015-2018. You must also understand that it is impossible to determine whether the number of people living in illegality has increased or decreased. People who are illegal, the word itself, are not registered anywhere and therefore remain under the radar. It was impossible for my predecessor to count this too, and that remains the same for me. They can also leave independently without using voluntary return programmes. Some try their luck in other Member States. So they're not all gonna leave, either. Some disappear, as it's called, off the radar. Every day we want a return policy as efficient as possible. My services are trying to do the same. We are trying to analyse and solve the problems in the return chain with all the actors involved, police, justice, foreign affairs. Those problems were there in 2011. Some problems we've solved. Others we found in 2014. There have also been new problems. You know that we are also awaiting the report of the Bossuyt Committee, which evaluates the return policy. That would be delivered in the next few months. We have already received a preliminary report, but that was not yet complete. The removal of criminals is and remains one of the priorities. In 2019 a total of 1,469 foreigners were removed from prison. This is a slight decrease compared to 2018. Then it was 1,602. As you know, my predecessor's decisions have led to a huge drop in the number of places in closed centres. That is one of the reasons why this was also slower in the closed centres, i.e. slower but not less.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I take note of the fact that you disagree with your party colleague and that you are aiming for a high degree of recognition. The influx remains a working point. For the outflow, please refer to the Bossuyt report. I also hope that we will receive this soon. Thank you for the annual figures of the illegal criminals for 2019. It is clear that there is a decline under your rule, albeit a slight decline. We would ask you to continue the policy that is now in full swing, with flights that are once again possible, as we have heard in the hearings, and to continue the policy of your predecessor, Theo Francken, by prioritising illegal criminals. You can count on our full support for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u11	Madam Minister, your answer to my written question in October showed that the average length of stay of asylum seekers in a local reception initiative in Wallonia is a lot longer than in Flanders, in particular two months. That's gonna cost a lot of money. You're aware of those numbers, since you delivered them to me. How do you explain that difference in reception time? What will you do about it? After all, this is an unnecessary cost for the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u12	Mrs Van Camp, on the basis of the written question to which you refer, there has indeed been an investigation at Fedasil into the reason for the difference in length of stay between the North and South regions. Therefore, as there was no reason for the difference in content, the data were examined. This showed that there was a problem of accuracy with regard to the data of persons already known to the OCMW prior to the introduction of the new IT system for the management of the reception network. So it was actually a childhood disease from the new database. If these dates are not taken into account, the average duration of stay is much lower and the difference between North and South is significantly smaller. For the North region, the average stay in 2019 was 5,57 months, for the South region 6,13 months and for the Central region 5,68 months. There's a smaller difference, but there's still a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for looking for the reason why these figures are so different and for the information. I hope that the problem with the IT system has been solved so that the data can be properly monitored. I'm gonna get those improved grades sometime. I shall come back to that with another question. I think it is time to work on an exceptional monitoring to see exactly how the LOI funds are being spent, but that is for my next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u14	Madam Minister, I would like to take this question back to your answer to my written question, namely that it is not known exactly what the LOI funds are used for. Maybe there's a reason or maybe you can see the numbers. I thought it was a very strange answer. If you give local authorities funds for the organisation of the care, I assume that you, as the competent minister, will still succeed on what they spend the resources for the care, even if it is only to check whether everyone does so in a good way or to learn from good practice. How, for example, is it possible for funds to be better spent in a particular part of the country or in a particular municipality? Is that right? Do your services indeed not know how much is being paid to the LOIs and how the funds are being spent? You also replied that you have no idea what is happening to those who leave the LOI. So you do not know how many LOIs end up with the right of residence or not. Are you staying or is there an ICT-based solution and are you still getting that data? Finally, we learn from practical examples that the LOI funds are not always well spent. In some cases, staff are recruited for other services. Sometimes cinematic tickets and fitness subscriptions are refunded. I have already referred to that problem, to which you replied that this is not and cannot be done. However, it does happen in practice. How could that be? Do you have a visual on that? Is it not time to map this and, above all, to make it clear to the local authorities that this tax money needs to be handled in an economical manner and that it is not appropriate to pay back things such as cinematic tickets and fitness subscriptions in the context of care?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u15	Mrs Van Camp, I have already answered your written question to which you referred. The OMCWs receive a grant per LOI place from Fedasil which they make available. That is so laid down in the law of reception and was already applicable when I re-entered. The amounts are fixed on a flat-rate basis and determined by royal decree. The content of the material assistance received by an asylum seeker is also laid down in the Reception Act. That is what I want to say again, as my predecessor said, about bed, bath and bread, housing, food and clothing and medical, social and psychological guidance. The LOIs cannot repay other costs for asylum seekers with the grant they receive from Fedasil for reception, just as they cannot finance their own costs, which have nothing to do with asylum seekers. Fedasil is aware that some OCMWs and centers receive tickets for events and distribute them to the target audience by lot. Asylum seekers receive limited allowance and may accumulate material aid with wages from paid labour to a limited extent. With that money, of course, they do what they want. Fedasil has no knowledge of the situations to which you referred, nor has any reason to believe that it would be a common practice and that significant amounts would be involved. Given the limited resources, it is therefore not a priority to monitor all expenditure of the OMCWs with a magnifying glass. I prefer, to prove the contrary, to trust in the management autonomy of the OCMWs. By the way, there is also control over this: every OMCW has to submit its budget and I assume that in most municipalities the opposition is still monitoring it. If you have any evidence to the contrary, I suggest you deliver it to Fedasil so that the files can be examined. If we don't, we're gonna keep talking about it and say this and that one and the other. For the OMCWs, the reception model gives priority to asylum seekers who have a high chance of a positive decision, which is not with us. This is therefore the main target group for the OMCWs. Fedasil doesn't keep figures anymore as soon as the persons leave the reception network. They leave the reception network for two reasons, either because they are recognised or because they were given a negative decision. From that moment on, Fedasil will no longer have any figures, because the service will no longer be competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u16	Madam Secretary, I am concerned about your answer. You say that it is not about significant amounts and that control is not a priority. Given the size of the cost to the taxpayer of receiving care, I think that monitoring is a priority. As you ask, I will certainly give the examples to Fedasil and I hope that the necessary action will be taken. If I were responsible for this, I would indeed follow up on how taxpayers' money is being spent and if I found that more funds were being allocated than necessary to organise the reception, it would be a reason for me to review the system. Perhaps it would be more interesting, for example, to place those concerned only in collective care and to reduce the resources for this on a flat-rate basis. If some municipalities can do it perfectly with less resources, then I do not understand why they should be given more resources. However, we disagree on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u17	Madam Secretary, the Master Plan Closed Centres dates from 2017. I ask this question on the basis of a number of work visits, where we found that the infrastructure in many closed centres is somewhat outdated. That is why I would like to have an update on the roll-out of that master plan. Madam Secretary, what is your vision of the future in the closed centres? What capacity are you pursuing? Do you already have a view on which closed centres will close in the medium or long term? What exactly will happen to the buildings in question? Has a location already been established in West Flanders for the construction of a new closed center as foreseen in the master plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u18	Mrs. Van Camp, you always come back to the master plan. You know that one closed center has now been added, the center in Holsbeek which was opened in May 2019. Since the beginning of the legislature, 180 places have also been created. The capacity available in the closed centres, without taking into account the measures resulting from the corona crisis, now consists of 635 places. In addition, there are 28 places available in the residential units in center 127 bis in Steenokkerzeel. Furthermore, we will do the necessary to further implement the master plan, which also happens in consultation with the Regie der Bouwen, to end up in more than 1,000 places. As you know, we are faced with both technical and budgetary problems. This is more than 50% of the cost, which I have already discussed extensively at a previous committee meeting. The structure is partly outdated. For the closed centre in Bruges, the oldest, other solutions are sought in the long term. The closed centers are not all in the same bad condition. The Regie is doing her best for maintenance. We also always signal the flaws. There are also very modern centers, for example the Caricole, which was opened by myself. Not all centres are therefore in need of replacement, but the oldest centres will have to be replaced and Bruges will be the first on the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u19	Madam Minister, you clearly say in your reply that you are working on it, but there are really no concrete plans yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u20	Mrs. Van Camp, some possible slopes are being investigated by the Foreign Office. There are many conditions before a permit can be obtained to turn any other destination into a closed centre. Therefore, some possible slopes are explored and developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u21	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u22	Mr President, Mr Rigot, Mr Moutquin, as regards the return figures, I invite you to put this question in writing. The planned budget for voluntary returns amounts to around €7 million for 2020. In the same year, 21 million euros are also planned for forced returns. We are always trying to maximize the use of European funds to reduce actual spending. As far as the execution of the master plan is concerned, we are currently examining the budgetary possibilities during the current business period. The 1,540 returnees you refer to have been removed to their country of origin. It is not possible to use Frontex's reservation system for removals within the European Union. Deportations under the Dublin Regulation and bilateral takeovers are therefore excluded from this system. The details you ask about removals are not examined for these 1,540 people but for all those who are forcibly removed. In the centres, vulnerable persons and those in need of additional care are subject to multidisciplinary follow-up, including medical and psychological follow-up, from their admission to the centre to their exit and sometimes even after their exit, for example if they have to take medicines after their return. If necessary, supervision is also provided during the flight and upon arrival.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will not fail to ask for supplements in writing. When I read my question, I think it would have justified a written question. For the rest, of course, let us remain attentive to the consequences of forced or voluntary return to the state, with regard to health measures. I have no doubt that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you. I will do the same to have more precise figures. It's the most interesting one. We know that you and we have different views on the usefulness of detention; but I think that at some point, beyond our political differences, it would be interesting to objectify the cost of each detention policy or the alternatives that exist, with the result in terms of return. As you know, I had already mentioned other return policies, which are used in particular in the Netherlands. I am thinking of what is called BB+, which is an agreement between migrants and municipalities to create a project and then return to the country of origin. I would find it interesting, beyond our differences, that we can objectiveise the different policies of detention or return, their results and their costs. The cost, for the outcome of detention centres, seems to me quite astronomical. There's probably some things to dig.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers is being apologized and I am also asking this question on her behalf. Madam Minister, in January we learned that the city of Leuven would have taken refugees into a local hotel. I assume this is about LOI places being paid by federal funds. What is your opinion on this? Mrs Arena, one of your predecessors, has once started the reception of asylum seekers in hotels, which has created a huge suction effect. Did you record this with the local government in Leuven? Do you think this is appropriate? Does the federal government pay for this shelter at a hotel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u26	Mr President, action has been taken in Leuven to offer an alternative to persons, including recognised refugees living in uninhabitable homes of a cottage milker. Some of these persons would have been temporarily accommodated in a hotel in Leuven. We must distinguish between an asylum seeker and a recognised refugee, insofar as this was not yet clear to the committee members. Asylum seekers have applied for asylum and are awaiting a decision from the Commissioner-General. On the basis of the Reception Act and the European Directive, they are entitled to receive accommodation in a reception structure of Fedasil or its partners, including the OCMWs that offer bed, bath and bread in individual places in the LOIs. Accredited refugees have received a positive decision and must leave the reception structures in which they stayed. They then go looking for a property on the private market. At that time, Fedasil is no longer competent for housing. Like everyone else, they need to find a place to live. They are therefore recognised refugees who unfortunately ended up in Leuven with a cottage milker. Let me make it clear that the housing of these people is not within my competence, nor is it one of my federal colleagues, and therefore no support was given by Fedasil or any other body under my jurisdiction. I do, of course, regret that such things are happening. The reception of recognized refugees in a hotel was an autonomous decision of the city administration of Leuven, when it was discovered that these people were staying in virtually uninhabitable homes. Because I'm not qualified, neither did I, nor my administration. We didn't find out until after.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u27	Madam Secretary, that is quite clear. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u28	Madam Minister, I refer to the answer to a question I had asked you in writing which shows that not only are fewer and fewer municipalities still registering on the Local Reception Initiatives, but also that the municipalities that have Local Reception Initiatives are also starting to phase out. How do you look at those numbers? Do we have to deduce from this that the support of local authorities is falling in relation to the local reception initiatives for asylum seekers? What's your vision on that? We see that the Local Reception Initiatives occur in an accordion movement every time, including as regards the workload for local authorities. Is it not therefore more efficient to make full use of collective care? Have you ever considered the pros and contras and, if so, what is the result of that? In the light of the decreasing number of LOI places on the local boards, what is your plan to offer an alternative? If it is up to us, we are limiting the influx, then there is no need for more shelters, but under your policy, for the time being, especially for the corona crisis, there is an increased influx. Furthermore, following the initiative you mentioned in the previous reply, which you refused, among other things, the reception of Dublin applicants, not many initiatives have been taken to limit the influx. How do you look at that and what is your alternative?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u29	Mrs Van Camp, on the table we have made on the capacity of the LOIs, I see that at my arrival there were about 5,600 seats and now 6,000. Those places haven't been demolished, rather increased. That shatters quietly. In the middle of 2018 there was an imposed phasing-out. Since the beginning of 2019, we have been in a slowly rising trend. Moreover, the vast majority, almost 80%, of the OCMWs have a reception convention with Fedasil. So there is still a local support base for receiving asylum seekers. The number of LOI places has fallen dramatically in mid-2018. That was indeed a decision of your party and my predecessor who was competent to do so. There was an osaturation when I arrived at the end of 2018 and I was luckily able to reverse that phase-out. The reduction in the number of places is therefore not a result of a reduction in the acceptance of the LOIs, but of a conscious choice made by my predecessor. Due to the drastic phasing-out operation, the trust of the OCMWs has collapsed. They make investments when they create LOI sites. If these places are then suddenly phased out and they have to turn in money from their congregation, that is demotivating for those people. I used to have a really good relationship with the OCMWs, but they're disappointed then and that trust isn't just built up again. They know that they have the same problems with one policy decision on another. I have therefore asked Fedasil to investigate how we can achieve a flexible system, where sufficient LOI places are available when needed, with a minimum risk of empty spaces. There are indeed advantages and disadvantages for collective and individual care. For me, they remain complementary in order to maximise the benefits of both systems. The LOIs are included in the shelter law. It has never been an option to completely abandon these initiatives. They have an essential role to play in the Belgian reception model. Within that model, places in individual reception are reserved for vulnerable profiles, for people with a high level of protection and for those with a status. As a result, these people are already employed on local anchoring and transition to a place in society. It is a system that is complementary to the other system. They are entitled to a grant per place fixed by royal decree. For 2019, the rate for an adult person was 40 euros per occupied place and 16 euros for an unoccupied place. The rate for a child is 22 euros for an occupied place and 8 euros for an unoccupied place. Collective care is better suited to first-line care and to the reception of persons with less or less chances of protection and who need to be accompanied to return. The Red Cross Flanders and La Croix-Rouge de Belgique are the largest partners of Fedasil for the organisation of collective places. For this purpose, in 2019 they charged a maximum of 42 euros for an available generic location, both for an adult and for a supervised child. The payment to the collective reception partners is made on the basis of actual costs and not on the basis of a flat-rate amount. Mr President, I will also provide a very characteristic curve for the report, in which you can see that the number of LOIs had fallen enormously and then increased again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u30	Madam Secretary, that surprises me. I'm curious about those numbers. In your answer to my written question, you said that it was 8,851 places in 2017, but maybe there was another IT problem. In the written figures you provided yourself, you mentioned 5,990 in 2018. Now you say there were 5,600. Now it's 6,000. I'll read your table. I hope those figures match. If Members of Parliament ask for figures, we are counting on them to be correct and that, as in my previous question on length of stay, you can recognise and correct an error. On the basis of these figures, there was a decrease of one third in a few years and almost 10% of the municipalities had left the same period. In this sense, we think we can talk about a reduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u31	I didn't start in 2017, but I started in 2019. You speak of the figures of 2017. There has been a huge phasing-out in 2018. I joined in December 2018 when N-VA left the government. I didn't start in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u32	I don't care who started when. Nor is it a reproach whether the figures have fallen or not. The fact that the municipalities are closing down places, I also blame them for their support. I can only base myself on the figures you provide for the entire period, based on the figures that have fallen. The last number you gave me is 6,000. I hear you'll be delivering the numbers. I'll look at them then. I note that you consider the system complementary. I do not agree with that, especially since you cannot provide figures that support your statement. You say that you reserve the LOIs for people with a high degree of recognition, but if you are asked how many percent of the people who are taken up in a LOI structure are ultimately granted a residence permit, you must remain guilty of the answer. I already told you. Personally, I would keep track of such policy figures in order to support and underpin my policy. I do not think it is justified for you to base yourself on this without giving us figures. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u33	Madam Minister, I am referring to an EU report which states that over EUR 2 billion of European support has been given to Greece to monitor the external borders of the Schengen area for the last five years alone. We know the numbers. It is not the case that no efforts are being made, but no one in this committee will claim that they are successful, judging by the number of migrants stranded in camps there. Every year many of them also travel to Europe. Madam Minister, what have you already done, especially in international fora, to address this problem and offer solutions to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u34	As far as the question on the Greek plans on driving elements is concerned, I can only confirm that I have seen similar reports, but I know that no European financial resources were asked for them, nor were there any discussions within the Council. Since 2015, the European Union has paid EUR 11.2 billion from asylum, migration and border management funds to all Member States. Greece's share is between 20% and 25%. This share does not seem unusual for one of the Member States most affected by the problem of asylum and migration, where the majority of irregular entry into the European Union is still taking place today. That money doesn't just serve to guard the border. There is much support for capacity building in the areas of asylum and migration management, the establishment of reception capacity, immediate humanitarian needs and so on. Moreover, the Greek authorities are not the only beneficiaries. Many projects are also managed by recognised international organisations. You know that many initiatives have been taken at European level in recent years to strengthen the external borders. Belgium has always strongly supported these initiatives. I have always pointed out to the Council of the European Union that a thorough reform of the common European asylum system, including the Dublin Regulation, is urgent and necessary, as it is inextricably linked to the proper functioning of our Schengen area without internal borders. We await the new proposals that the von der Leyen Commission will put on the table as part of the promised migration pact. The European Commissioner responsible for Migration, Mrs Johansson, is working on it and is also consulting with our services. She has already had several discussions with me on this. We continue to advocate the effective use of resources within a reformed system of increased responsibility at the external borders and increased solidarity with those Member States which bear the main burden. We ask that everyone, regardless of their location, gets a fair share, and not one everything and the other nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u35	Thank you for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u36	Mr Rigot, in order to have a comprehensive and comprehensive view of the situation on the Greek islands, reference should be made to EASO, the European Asylum Support Office. He is responsible for the coordination and monitoring of support operations in Greece. Currently, there are no Fedasil collaborators deployed in Greece or elsewhere as part of EASO operations. In 2019, eleven Fedasil employees worked in Greece and two in Cyprus. Fedasil regularly renews its pool of internal experts. It is possible that Fedasil will make available to EASO certain collaborators in 2020 for support operations to the Greek authorities. The number of experts and the nature of the tasks assigned to them vary according to the changing context of the profiles sought by EASO and the available staff. Most of the employees deployed in 2019 for long missions (about 3 months) went to Samos. They have worked with EASO staff and Reception and Identification Service staff to improve the safe area and the physical conditions of the MENA. We are ready to continue our support in the area of hospitality as long as it contributes to a sustainable improvement of the system and within the limits of our available resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that the current context does not allow Fedasil's collaborators to go there. Nevertheless, it remains more essential than ever to reach out to the Greek authorities, not by closing the borders but by organising a balanced distribution of applicants for international protection throughout Europe. Europe's relocation and resettlement programmes must certainly be relaunched as soon as possible, depending on the means we can implement in view of the size of our country and our situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u38	Madam Minister, at previous committee meetings, you have always stressed that the number of asylum seekers has not increased. As I noted earlier, this is about the figures before these corona times. When, as you suggest, we consult the figures on the website of your competent department, we find that the number of asylum seekers in these corona times is increasing; I have already mentioned this in my previous question. Madam Secretary, our proposals to limit influx are ready. Are you going to do this or are you going to propose it yourself? To a previous question, you have already replied that you have done your part, including by refusing reception to asylum seekers in Dublin regime, which has partly limited the influx. You mentioned the figures. However, we cannot talk about a firm approach to influx. Are your efforts limited to denying shelter to people under Dublin rules? Is there anything else we can expect? Why do you not work on the proposals that we have tabled?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u39	Mrs Van Camp, the bill you referred to was already discussed in committee. The committee has asked me and the services for our opinion and we have already given them. My group's colleagues are actively involved in this and we are giving input to this. They also contributed to a joint amendment. The added value of asking for it again here today, except perhaps for statistics, is a little lacking in me. Energy should be aimed at seeking a majority for that proposal. The stitching games here are for the gallery. I do not need to remind you that the government is still in business for too long, and that the problems are not new at all. At the committee meeting on 3 March, we had a topical debate on the measures I myself took. You claim that I would have said that the number of asylum applications would not have increased since 2018. I don't understand where you're getting that. In the figures I gave you, there was an increase. We now see that we are on average at the same level as when I took over at the end of 2018. It is true that there was an increase in January, after a lower level in December. In February there was another drop. After that we can say nothing, because in March the corona pandemic raged. It's the longer-term effects that matter. It will therefore be difficult to compare this year and last year, because we have seen fewer applications for a number of months now as a result of the corona measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u40	Madam Secretary, I would particularly like to see whether you can develop such proposals from the government. After all, it is clear that there is no majority in Parliament, which in my view does not really reflect the will of the electorate, for our good proposals to tighten up migration legislation and limit the influx of asylum seekers. It wasn't jousting. It was a genuine attempt to get rid of my frustration at the lack of a parliamentary majority to tighten asylum and migration legislation, and to find a solution through the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u41	As I have said on several occasions, I share your indignation at the lack of a parliamentary majority. As you do not find a majority for your proposal, in which Open Vld has cooperated, I do not get a majority from a minority government either. So we are somewhat in the same situation. In addition, we must also take into account the government's ban on developing new initiatives in current cases. Whatever one wants to do, one must find a majority for it, that is a democratic fact. To your great frustration, you do not find a majority, and I do not find one either. Something will have to come, but apparently the sense of urgency is missing and we are the only ones who get it on the hips.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u42	We agree that there is no majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u43	Madam Minister, this judgment dates back to February and the European Court of Justice is therefore actually a decision of its own from 2012. Then a ruling was made that made it impossible to return to a safe haven of people who tried to reach the Schengen area illegally. However, the new ruling in February 2020 shows that it is possible, which is a very clear signal that we must do something about illegal immigration and cannot continue to accept it. It is also a good policy to send people back to the first safe haven, so that illegal migration to our territory is stopped. You have certainly also taken note of the judgment of the ECHR. Do you agree with me that, in the light of this new ruling, it can be possible to return to a safe haven? How do you see it on the European stage? Any word on that yet? Does the ruling make that possible again and is there a basis for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u44	Mrs Van Camp, we live not only in a democracy, but also in a rule of law, where only judges judge the specific case they are presented with. Each judgment is different and it is therefore not possible to draw general conclusions from judgments of judges too quickly, especially in the case of a certain number of cases. These are two statements on two very different cases. I think it would be a bit tricky to conclude that pushbacks would have been allowed or prohibited by the European Court of Human Rights. The facts and circumstances that led to this recent judgment are not comparable to those of the 2012 judgment to which you refer, namely Hirsi and others v Italy. At that time, in view of the situation in Libya, Somalia and Eritrea, there was a risk of a violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. That was not the case in the recent case. In the first case, the applicants had no legal opportunity to submit their application, but in the second case. They could do so through a visa or asylum application at the border or in an embassy. As regards collective expulsion, an individual examination was possible in the first case, but it was not carried out because of a lack of qualified personnel, lawyers and interpreters on board the military vessel, which prevented the parties concerned from expressing their arguments. In the second case, that was not possible, since the behaviour of those who used violence and the group effect to cross the border represented a danger to public security. The first judgment is therefore not contradicted, it is simply a different judgment based on other facts. The judgment of 13 February 2020 therefore confirms that it is the obligation of the Member States to protect the external borders while respecting the principle of non-refoulement. It goes without saying that the European asylum and migration policy does not send people back to a situation in which their lives or physical integrity are at risk. However, this does not rule out the need to protect our external borders in the best possible way and to ensure that asylum seekers also have to follow the correct procedures. So I have always been an advocate of strong external borders, and I will remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u45	Madam Secretary, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, the ECHR condemned Belgium to a moral compensation of EUR 10,000 for a repatriated Tunisian criminal, on the basis of a supposed negligence that would have violated its rights because it would not have been given a judgment within a reasonable period of time. Do you agree with that interpretation? Why didn't the verdict last so long? That amount paid to the man, too? Has the option been considered to deduct the cost of his stay here, so I don't think there would be much more of that 10,000 left? The ruling confirms that the right of residence must be deprived of in such cases, but I hope that you will do what is necessary with regard to moral compensation so that we can avoid this in the future. It would be best if we did not end up in this situation. If we expel a criminal who has no right of residence and has also committed criminal offences as soon as possible, such cases would not occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I do not go into individual dossiers. In this respect, there is indeed a conviction to pay moral damages. The amount is not immediately payable, but it is our opinion that someday it will come to that. We always respect the case law of the European Court of Justice and always follow Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights when adopting an expulsion measure today. This means that the right to respect for private, family and family life is being examined. You asked why the ruling on the legality of the solution remained out for so long. For the answer to that question, I must refer you to my fellow Minister of Justice, Koen Geens. I agree with you that the removal of criminal illegals must be an absolute priority. I once signed a cooperation agreement on this matter with the former Minister of Justice, Mrs Turtelboom. I already gave the figure: we repatriated 1,469 foreigners in 2019 after they were released from prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u48	Mr President, Minister, that is clear. You also have our full support in this regard. I have already mentioned in my question and I would certainly like to repeat in my reply that it is perhaps an option to consider whether we can be below that amount of EUR 10,000, by subtracting the costs of his stay, which I believe are many times higher.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u49	Madam Minister, on this last point, I would like to recall the background which is still terrible. Greece now decides to disenfranchise the lives of all its citizens and to allow the arrival of tourists. At the same time, it also decided to take specific containment measures with regard to residents of refugee camps. These measures seem in fact justified by a policy of monitoring the closure of these camps, not to say systematic confinement. Minister, have you taken any initiatives towards your Greek colleagues in this area? Do you have any information that justifies these measures? Indeed, if there are specific health measures for migrants in Greece, I would like to understand the reasons for this. Do you think such differences in treatment are justified in law? It is always the same thing that comes back: European solidarity. Can our country provide Greece with assistance that would enable it to set up support (through administrative or health cooperation) and thus put an end to this policy of confinement? What is the status of the implementation of the resettlement of the vulnerable public in Belgium? We were talking about the 18 miners who are still waiting for their arrival. Given the tightening of Greece's policy against residents, would it not be justified to increase our participation? This is a good start, 18 minors, but if you are right to say that we must intervene with regard to the means of our country – and solidarity is each one according to the means possible – the number of 18 really seems to me to be far less than we could give as means and as support to Greece and to all these transmigrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u50	Mr. Chair, Minister, this question was sent a long time ago before your announcement of our participation in the plan for the relocation of minors. Some aspects of this issue are therefore obsolete. I fully agree with my colleague Rigot on the other issues, but one of my sub-questions was the assessment of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. In your European meetings, have you been able to discuss this agreement, a challenge or an amendment to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to solidarity with the countries that receive unaccompanied minors, it may be said that we are doing more than our fair share in the light of relocation. A table, which I send to you through the President, lists what each country does in proportion to the total and to what the fair share would be for each country. On that basis, I can say that Belgium does its fair share up to three times. Countries such as France and Italy, which always claim to do a great deal, appear to be doing three times less than they should. All countries that have committed themselves to admit unaccompanied minors do less than Belgium, except Germany, in absolute figures, and certainly in relative figures. Why did it last so long, Mr. Moutquin? It is the Regions that must host MENA under twelve years. In order to do so, an agreement had to be reached with the federated entities. Indeed, the reception of these young people is a matter of their competence. I do not want to commit myself on behalf of Belgium to allowing 20 young people to enter without knowing whether beds and reception places will be available for them. For Europe and Belgium, it is important that Turkey also has a well-functioning migration system and abides by the commitments made. We therefore call for diplomatic action to be taken on the causes of the refugee flows, in particular the situation in Idlib. The European Union has released EUR 350 million for migration and border management in Greece in response to tensions on the Greek-Turkish border. This amount may be doubled if necessary. It also provides for a reinforcement of Frontex, in which Belgium also contributes. Belgium is also making a material contribution through the European Civil Protection Mechanism. At present, the situation at the Greek-Turkish border has changed. Since mid-March, the Turkish authorities have been evacuating refugees in the no-man's-land between the Greek and Turkish borders, reducing the number of irregular border crossings. It goes without saying that our services, together with the permanent representatives of Belgium in the European Union, are closely monitoring the situation. However, it is clear that the current European asylum and Dublin rules cannot withstand a crisis at the external borders. A structural solution must therefore be sought. Belgium is prepared to discuss the various temporary measures to support Greece, but we cannot continue to avoid structural responses to the migration challenge. Temporary arrangements may help but are not the long-term solution. It is necessary for each Member State to take its share of responsibility. We must continue the work in order to achieve a structural reform that balances this responsibility and answers the question in its entirety. In view of the exceptional situation of children in Greece, we want to show solidarity. We are therefore committed to the relocation of 18 vulnerable minors, despite the saturation of our reception network and despite the corona crisis. The minors will first be received on arrival in an observation and orientation centre of Fedasil, where medical and psychological guidance is also available. They will then be taken into account in the free places in youth aid co-financed by Fedasil. Youth aid is a Flemish, Walloon and Brussels competence respectively, but after consultation with the Communities a number of places were created which are co-financed by the federal government. The financial burden of these places is therefore shared and, of course, I could not communicate the number until we had made the necessary agreements with each Community. Currently, the three competent administrations, Fedasil, the Office for Foreigners and CGRA, are in contact with the European Commission but also with the Greek administration and the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) to ensure the implementation of the commitment made by the Belgian Government. The Greek authorities must assess the best interests of each of the MENA with the assistance of the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and EASO. Of the 1,600 MENA that will be relocated from Greece to other Member States, only about 450 have already been assessed. On this basis, EASO must then allocate the candidates for relocation between the Member States, depending on their commitment. There is still a lot of work to be done. This distribution of cases is under way for Belgium. Their arrival is expected to be effective by the end of July. However, I would like to stress that only a structural solution can solve the refugee crisis in Greece. The occasional transfer of a limited group of minors hardly makes any sense. A real solution is needed and can only be achieved if each Member State makes a fair contribution not only on an ad hoc basis but in a structural manner to the efforts to register and receive asylum seekers. Belgium has certainly done so in the past year. In 2019, Belgium received 1,220 unaccompanied minors. In absolute numbers, Belgium captures the majority of minors after Greece and Germany. In relative figures, when we take account of the capacity of a country through its gross domestic product and population, we are in second place and even Germany does not do more than Belgium. As far as I'm concerned, we're really doing more than our fair share. I also told the European Commissioner that we cannot keep doing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u52	Madam Minister, I am very much in agreement with you that Europe is failing tremendously in this respect. What can be invoked, however, is the emergency situation. Among other things, Greece has done so for a whole month. We can do that, but of course there are limits to this solution. I agree with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers. I always agree with you when it comes to saying that there is a European responsibility and solidarity to have at European level. It is indeed together, and not individually, that one can provide an answer. This response will have to be structural. Entry into Europe, organized and structured migrations are needed to avoid illegal migration with smugglers and others. We need to organise it, define the corridors of entry into Europe and set clear conditions together. I don't doubt it. In this case, my question relates to a short-term situation which requires a short-term answer. And I am shocked when it is said, by referring to Belgium's position, that in relation to the other European countries, we have done our part. Of course, if European countries make no effort, if everyone is zero and we are one, we are the world champions and we have done a thousand times more than anyone else. However, when it comes to children, we cannot say that we are happy and proud to welcome 18 children, especially since we have had to discuss with the federated entities the financial burden that this could represent for them. I admit it's shocking. I'm not saying that's your personal point. I have no doubt that it was indeed the work that had to be done. But it is shocking, when it comes to the best interests of children, to talk about funding, quotas, ceilings and means, and then to say that we did our job, because the others do not do it properly. More must be done to get out of there. Let us then punch at the level of Europe by saying: this Europe is not an economic Europe but a solidarity Europe which must be so even when we do not necessarily have the means to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u54	Thank you for your answer, Minister. We fully support the idea of a new European mechanism. We'll have to see which one. I think an exit is scheduled for September. Some things look interesting, others less. We'll talk about it again. On the other hand, I really wonder when I hear you referring to the Regions. According to the information I have, the Communities are indeed competent for children in danger, but not specifically for MENA. A MENA may not be in danger and a child in danger may not be a MENA. If my information is good, conventions were signed in 2018, at the height of the crisis, between Fedasil and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, to support Fedasil who was in difficulty. It is Fedasil who co-finances what is being done in the Communities. We must be more careful than that by arguing that the MENA fall within the competence of the Communities. I think this is a shared competence, sometimes a bit complicated in our Belgian lasagna. On the other hand, I had an echo that the Wallonia-Brussels Federation was ready to host several MENA "waves" in several flights. There was already a figure of 18 for the Wallonia-Brussels Federation alone; this figure will have to be repeated after the first arrivals in July. I will explore the question of the responsibility of the Regions and the Federation in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u55	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about my questions. 55007762C, 55007763C, 55007766C and 55007767C which have been converted into written questions, that we did indeed receive the answer yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I have already put these questions to your colleague De Crem. He replied very clearly and additional resources are being made available to tackle transmigration. He said that EUR 4 million had been released in consultation with the United Kingdom, but its use was not yet clear. How was that money spent on transmigration? One of the elements of the plan was to release the separate capacity provided for transmigrants in a wing of center 127 bis. This proved not to be a success and solutions that are geographically closer to the problem would be looked at. The capacity for transmigrants in the wing of center 127 bis has now fallen. Where is this capacity for transmigrants now foreseen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, the resources are being used to curb, counter and discourage transmigration. The majority of the budget is indeed for the police. The Foreign Affairs Department is consulting with the United Kingdom to set up a prevention campaign. It would consist of a hotline for transmigrants, who could ask questions about the possibility of coming to the United Kingdom or asking other questions. There will also be a personal outreach to migrants in Zeebrugge, as well as campaigns via mainly social media. The goal is always to find sustainable solutions for these people. In addition, DVZ, together with the United Kingdom, will also conduct a awareness campaign for drivers. You know that confinements are limited today, due to the corona crisis. We are currently focusing on people who have committed facts against public order, people who are coming out of prison and who need to be removed and bordered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u58	So, Minister, there is no immediate alternative in terms of reception capacity for transmigrants? The intention is to make real use of the resources for prevention, but there is no alternative to the wing reserved for center 127a? I thought this was the plan. We were on the right track there together to arrange something geographically, for example by province. The answer was to organize something that was even closer to the problem of West Flanders, but nothing really happened?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u59	They can still be locked up. Because of the corona crisis we have fewer places and we are indeed focusing on people who have committed facts against public order. That project was promising, but it has not proved successful. There were complaints that they only stayed there for 24 or 48 hours and they spoke of a revolving door. The frustration was great. There was only an administrative decision, but no real incarceration, so they knew they would be released after two or three days. The guards, but also the police, were pretty frustrated about that. All the evaluations showed that it never got off the ground. Also the project where the police would bring people from all over the country was not successful. There was little willingness to implement that project in other provinces. I'm open to suggestions. One can sometimes have a good idea, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating. On the grounds it was found to be a kind of hotel inside and outside, washed, eaten and slept and then left. That was really frustrating for the guards, but also the people with police duties thought they had other cats to fling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u60	Madam Secretary, that is clear. Now that there is no immediate alternative, we will continue to monitor whether the current capacity is sufficient and whether the measures taken together with the United Kingdom are sufficient to provide solutions. My final appeal, but I think I should address it to your colleague De Crem, would certainly be to provide additional support to the local authorities, which have a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u61	Madam Secretary, there will be a temporary reception centre for 120 asylum seekers in Kalmthout. That's what the federal government decided. The asylum centre is located in an old school building on the Putsesteenweg near the Vogelzangstraat. The 120 asylum seekers will be taken care of for a year and a half. The municipality of Kalmthout asks many questions about the location that Fedasil chose. The plot is part of a municipal site with other users. For example, there is an apartment block with 25 private homes and also the school Wilgenduin, a school for special education, with about 100 students. The municipality has now brought a short-term action before the court of first instance. According to the municipality, the building is too small and too small for the reception of 120 refugees. The busy Putsesteenweg is extremely dangerous as only access. The municipality does not agree with this collective reception in those circumstances. On 7 May, I learned through the media that according to the federal committee on public administration, Fedasil did not communicate sufficiently with the municipality of Kalmthout on the dossier of the planned asylum centre. The urban discussion has not yet been cleared up and G4S continues to work on the building. Madam Minister, there is a lot of unrest in the municipality of Kalmthout following the decision of the federal government to open a temporary reception centre for asylum seekers. Are you aware that there is unrest? The municipality of Kalmthout brought a short-term action before the court of first instance. Are you aware of this and what is your position on the matter? It was only when the file was already before the government that the municipality was informed. The Federal Committee on Public Participation also found that Fedasil did not communicate sufficiently with the municipality of Kalmthout. What concrete measures will you take to address Fedasil's lack of communication with local authorities and the opening of temporary reception centres for asylum seekers in general? On the basis of which criteria will the choice be made about the location to accommodate asylum seekers? Has a decision been taken on the location of the new asylum centres? Would you like an overview? Are there any municipalities that have already declared themselves a candidate for asylum?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Safai, there is always concern about the imminent opening of a reception structure. The municipality has indeed announced that it will initiate a short-term action. With regard to communication to the local government, it is up to the owner or operator of a possible reception site to contact the local government, to discuss his or her plans with the building. Fedasil and the awarded operator can only communicate with the local administration once the official award has been confirmed by the Council of Ministers. Fedasil is looking for suitable shelters throughout the Belgian territory. Several aspects will be considered, such as the possible reception capacity, financial and contractual conditions, the type and state of the building and the nearby installation. The priority criteria depend in particular on the reception context and the supply of infrastructure. In recent weeks shelters in Herbeumont and Etterbeek have been opened. The majority of cities and municipalities in Belgium have a local reception initiative which is sometimes extended on a voluntary basis. Apart from the opening of additional individual places, there is no candidate among the municipalities for collective reception of asylum seekers. If you know one, please send it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u63	Mr President, Minister, it is important, as you also point out, to communicate in good time and in advance. Communication about how the location has been decided on can also be improved. This was not really the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament 55006305C Mr Aouasti has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u65	Mr President, I was somewhat surprised to find the question on the agenda because I put it in plenary in June. So I will not read the question, but I will listen to your answer again, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u66	Madam Minister, I have already put the question to you in writing at the end of March. I have not yet received an answer, which is why I am now putting them orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u67	Mr President, we were contacted by the services of the Chamber to find out why we did not withdraw that question. However, we cannot allow questions to be withdrawn. I have indeed given Mr Raskin an answer in plenary, but Mrs Ponthier's question was written and indeed remained with the services. As I said, this question dates back to the end of March. We all know what this is about: last year Bilzen's asylum centre was the victim of a fire. That was an act of intolerance. The actions around that were known. At that time, I called for unconditional abdication of such violence. That was unanimously shared in the Chamber and I hope that is still the case. Mr Raskin, as far as the agreement is concerned, I have indeed said that there was a contract. You have certainly been given the documents through the Public Administration Act. This Agreement was concluded on 15 September 2019. The sites were activated on September 24, 2019. Fedasil then indicated to the partner that places would be needed. Since the reception centre in Bilzen is a buffer centre, the activation period is six months. If this fails within six months, Fedasil may apply sanctions. Given the specific context of the Bilzen shelter and what has been experienced by the arson, this has not happened here. It remains that the damage to the Bilzen building after the arson is considerable. The owner, who is the biggest victim in this story, is working on the plans for reconstruction and renovation. The corona crisis has slowed down a bit. The Red Cross has the appointment to look together with the owner when after the necessary works the restart might be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u68	Madam Secretary, you gave a laconic answer. You said that I had already asked the question and that I received an answer at that time. Mr President, I would like to point out that at the beginning of this year I asked the Minister twice whether there was an agreement and that she confirmed it twice, while Fedasil contradicted her at the same time. Fedasil said there's no match. I confronted her with this contradiction in plenary in June and asked her who is telling the truth and whether there is an agreement or not. At that time, I did not receive an answer despite the fact that, according to Fedasil, since 20 May, the date which did not give the Minister but Fedasil, is a signed agreement. So that was known at the time of the plenary session of 4 June, where I did not get that answer. Mr President, Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to say that I think that is a problem. It is my right and duty to control the executive, even if I ask annoying questions. I think it is appropriate for every member of the government to give a respectful and correct answer to the representatives of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u69	I don't understand the fuss because I've always given you an answer. I told you there was a contract and you said you didn't get it. At that time, I informed my services that they had to give you that contract in the framework of public administration. What's your problem? You ask a question and you get an answer. I told you the truth because you were able to see the contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u70	Madam Secretary, the problem is that the moment you say there is an agreement, your department says there is no agreement yet. That contradicts each other, and that's what I'm here to point out and sue. You're telling me something other than your government department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u71	I've outlined the situation to you. I told the truth. Then I informed my services that they had to give you that contract in the context of public administration. You are accusing me of something that I really have nothing to do with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u72	Madam Minister, I can show you your answers to previous parliamentary questions. You said there was an agreement at the time. Then I can put Fedasil's answer aside and they say that there was no agreement. That's written in black and white. I'm sorry. I can show you in writing that you are telling things other than your public service in Parliament. I am also grateful to your service for informing me and providing me with the documents requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u73	Stop being so childish, they gave you that information because I told them. I told you the truth. What kind of silly game are you playing here? You're entitled to a reply, so you can repeat it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u74	Mr Raskin, it is very difficult to manage everything properly at a meeting via Zoom. If we keep replicating and answering, we'll still be here tomorrow. I now give Mrs Ponthier the floor for her reply. You can then replicate again, because Parliament always gets the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u75	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer if you had answered my questions, but you did not. I find that very regrettable. You are also persevering in anger by saying that the arson was an act of intolerance. I do not know exactly what you mean by that, but the investigation is still ongoing and until further notice I would not comment on the motives of the criminals either. The city of Bilzen has made itself a bourgeois party in this and has still not been given access to the file, because the investigation is still ongoing. After the appointment of a liaison officer by your colleague from the Flemish government, Bart Somers, we were no longer allowed to receive any further information from your cabinet or indirectly via the local government, so the questions and the unclearness remain. Meanwhile, in Bilzen, the rumours about a re-destination of the site are becoming more and more persistent and the local government, through your party colleague Bruno Steegen, still, even this week in the city council, says that the arrival of a temporary asylum centre seems highly uncertain. Of course, that is not entirely illogical, given the circumstances. Firstly, there is little or no support for the arrival of a temporary asylum centre at that location for a number of reasons which are well known to you. A second reason is, of course, the falling influx of asylum seekers due to the COOVID-19 crisis in our country. For example, the temporary asylum centre of Parelstrand in Lommel will also be completed and closed at the end of the summer. Therefore, on behalf of the Vlaams Belangroep, I once again call for the plans for this site to be reviewed and the site deleted as a possible location. In addition, I am calling for clear communication, which is something you are failing to achieve, because we all know that this has been one of the most important points of criticism since the beginning of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u76	Mr Raskin, I give you the floor for a final reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u77	Mr President, I have no further questions for the Minister. I would simply like to address you as President in order to guard the following: I say facts, the Minister gets angry and points a Member of Parliament as half a fool because he asks annoying questions. I demand that we treat each other respectfully. I have always done so in my question and I expect a minister to do the same with his or her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u78	Madam Minister, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ruled that Belgium was right not to issue visas in 2016 to a couple with two children from Syrian Aleppo. The family tried to escape the war zone by applying for visas via the Belgian embassy in the Lebanese capital Beirut in order to fly to Belgium and then apply for asylum here. A friendly family was willing to take them in, but the then Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Theo Francken refused, because visas do not serve that purpose. Will the government ensure that the principle is strictly applied by the embassy? Have there been any hangings? What are the total costs of lawyers for the case, including the costs for Belgian courts, the court cases on periodic penalty payments for the attachment judge, the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg and the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg? Will the charges be recovered from the prosecutors? What do you think of the practice of the law firm Progress Lawyers Network in the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u79	Mrs Safai, the embassies and consulates are investigating such applications in accordance with the common visa rules. The Schengen rules for issuing visas are very clear. There is therefore no need to send specific instructions to the embassies and consulates. As far as I know, there are no similar cases pending. The total cost for the case is not yet known, because the lawyers' accounts have not all arrived. In the dossier in question, it will be very difficult to recover the costs in view of the applicants' profile. The people concerned are in Syria and I do not think we will send a bailiff there. Making even more costs for something that can't do anything wouldn't be a testament to good governance. In relation to the practices of law firms, I can imagine a lot, but I am too polite and I do not have the habit of commenting on them. I think your question is legitimate. It's a very strange thing. It was also a difficult case and it took a long time before there was a ruling. To your question on the recovery of costs, I answer you honestly that we will not incur any more costs. It is difficult for us to force people to pay in Syria. I am trying to take a pragmatic attitude in this respect. The family's back in their country and we won. It is certainly a precedent. The case can help us if the situation repeats itself. After all, I am sure that if the ruling had been different, a door would have been opened to come here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u80	Madam Secretary, you mention it as an important precedent. It's a shame it had to come to this. In any case, it is a good thing that this should prevent asylum seekers from coming here in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u81	Mr. Chair, Minister, we have received the annual report from the Foreign Litigation Council (CEC). I refer to the question tabled. We will have an opportunity to talk about the EAC in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u82	Mr President, Mr Rigot, I have already had a question to that effect in plenary. In fact, the President, Mr Bodart, himself said that there was obviously a difference between the two groups of judges in the Foreign Litigation Council. But you know that every judge is independent in his decisions. As a minister, in a rule of law, I cannot intervene in the judgments. He said that there were different reasons for the differences according to the linguistic role. There is also an internal working group within the Higher Council which examines the reasons for this difference. I prefer to wait for the results of the work of this internal group. There are various instruments that allow Mr Bodart and the Council... I don't know how that is said in French. The Council has several instruments to ensure the unity of justice and legal certainty. For example, the President of the Foreign Affairs Council may have a case dealt with by the General Assembly but also by the United Chambers. I am glad to tell you that in 2019, the number of decisions taken by the combined chambers increased, as well as requests for international protection. We do not yet have the statistics, but this will lead to more homogenous judgments. I believe that the CGVS is making good decisions because the vast majority of the Commissioner's decisions are not being revoked by the Council, and that for the two language roles. We also need to put the figures in perspective. In 2019, on average, 23 more reform judgments on the French-speaking side than on the Dutch-speaking side, while DVZ, the Commissioner and the Council made a decision last year in more than 25,000 asylum files. There's still a backlog. You know I've worked a lot to reduce it. We have had some success in this area. This means that the number of people who already have protection status in another Member State has decreased. In Belgium, there are fewer applications, because the Agency issued more 26quater decisions, because we increased the number of its staff in 2019. These are thousands of files and decisions. As far as the determination of the linguistic role is concerned, it is governed by the law of foreigners. The applicant may choose the language of the proceedings only if he declares irrevocably that he does not need an interpreter. In all other cases, the language of the proceedings shall be determined by the Office. This language is therefore determined as soon as the application is submitted and cannot be changed at the time of the appeal to the Conseil du Litigation. The procedure is written. This principle applies both to the proceedings in full dispute and to the procedure for annulment. However, the parties and their lawyers (...) It is up to each judge to settle the proceedings independently. If there is no evidence, the law of aliens determines the conditions under which the benefit of the doubt may apply. It is up to the CGRA and the judge of the Litigation Council to comply, under the supervision of the Council of State. The procedure before the Council allows the judge to take into account all the particulars of the case, on the basis of the administrative record, the evidence and notes filed by the lawyers and, finally, the evidence that emerges from the hearing. At first, I spoke a little too much Dutch because the answers were in both languages. Indeed, there was also a joint question from Mr. Demon who is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u83	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which I had no doubt about, but it was important to clarify things and to show that this Litigation Council is doing a remarkable, difficult but autonomous job. They are judges and we must respect this autonomy as well as that of justice, at a time when some point at efficiency and also make it a linguistic debate. You brought the church back to the middle of the village. As you know, we are under discussion and will hear from Mr Bodart, the first President of the EAC, next week, to define the needs and in particular the needs in terms of judges. I have no doubt that we will be able to pursue the same approach next week at the end of the hearings. It will also be necessary to ensure the organization of the hearing as it is, the autonomy of the judges and the financial means. We will continue in that order. Mr. Bodart and all the judges would be happy to hear your answer along those lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u84	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my question about a session on 10 June 2020 in which Denmark had to answer for refusing to apply for family reunification. It was particularly surprising that a European Commissioner, Mr Mijatovic, took part in the session and opposed the Danish Government's decision to refuse the application for family reunification. In particular, he expressed his opinion on Denmark's policy and accused Denmark of being too strict in relation to family reunification. My question is this. When representatives of governments begin to act in such matters, is it not appropriate that you should do the same from your office and intervene in order to support Denmark? We ourselves know the problems of influx through family reunification and tightening up the rules in this area. We have already talked about our frustration about this. Perhaps you could also encourage people in this area and make it clear from your position that we do include the defence of Denmark in that dossier and that we support the Danish struggle to limit the influx of asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u85	Mrs Van Camp, this is a case that was already dealt with by the Grand Chamber on 10 June 2020. The applicant of Syrian nationality is subject to the status of temporary protection in Denmark. That's different from subsidiary protection. Family reunification with his wife was refused because, in accordance with Danish law, he was not in possession of a residence permit for more than three years, which he considers to be an infringement of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In our legislation there is no comparable provision concerning the three-year waiting period before the foreigner who enjoys international or temporary protection can obtain reunification with his family members, but you know that our rules are very different from the Danish ones. We do not have the status of temporary protection which the applicant enjoys in this case under the Danish legislation in Belgium. So I don't know why I have to intervene in this case. I think other people like experts and lawyers are better placed for that. I don't see this as my role, especially since I have enough to do here. Denmark has a different statute in Europe in this respect, and the Danish model is also a very different model from ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u86	Madam Secretary, you are right about that. However, I do not think it is appropriate for a European Commissioner to oppose the sovereignty of a country. Denmark has not approved a number of conventions, which means that the country is not bound by them. From a legal point of view, Denmark simply needs legislation on family reunification. That is why I asked if you could not support it from that point of view. It is inappropriate for a European Commissioner to interfere with this, especially when it is so pronounced. In this sense, it seemed appropriate to our group that you, as a minister, make it very clear that, within the framework of internationally binding rules and standards, Member States have the right to implement their own policies in the area of family reunification. However, I understand that you are not prepared to do so. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u87	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, at the hearings of the asylum authorities in recent days, the CGRA informed us that 475 people were still waiting for the resettlement program to be implemented. This figure is important. We know the conditions. There was the suspension of the relocation program a few months ago as a result of the saturation of our network. Then the VOCID measurements arrived. But these are particularly vulnerable men and women who are in the most complete uncertainty, while they now meet the conditions for resettlement. Minister, do you confirm these figures? Is a resumption of the resettlement program already planned? If so, could you tell me when and at what rate? Considering the saturation of the network and the health measures imposed by the VOCID crisis, what resettlement route will you put in place? Will it be the same or will it be adapted? Are health measures, such as screening or quarantine, envisaged? Finally, there is an ongoing resettlement programme. But what about the future? Does Belgium intend to embark on a new resettlement programme? If so, in what context? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u88	Mr Rigot, for the period 2018-2019, Belgium had committed to resettle 2,000 people. Belgium has indeed resettled 1,119 people. The number of selected persons awaiting transfer is 457. Since the resettlement programme was suspended in October 2018, Belgium has been lagging behind in the implementation of its commitments. Since 2019, we have resumed implementation but due to the increase in occupancy rate, no transfer has been possible since July 2019. There was one exception: the last transfer concerned a family and took place in December 2019 on very urgent humanitarian grounds. On 18 June 2020, UNHCR and IOM announced the resumption of globally suspended resettlement programmes since 17 March due to the health crisis. We are currently working with Fedasil to explore ways to resume transfers as quickly as possible under the relocation program. Priority will be given to bringing refugees awaiting transfer to Belgium as soon as possible. We do not yet know what pace will be adopted. We must take into account the saturation of the network and the measures still imposed by the health crisis. An appropriate approach is required that Fedasil will likely translate into fewer transfers, more spread over time and through different channels. This means in collective centres but also individual places perhaps in local reception initiatives (ILA). Indeed, we intend to encourage local authorities to create additional places in the ALAs, in particular through the granting of additional compensation in the case of persons already in receipt of protection. A medical screening is always carried out in the country of departure. In the current situation, a VOCID-19 test could be added to the procedure. This possibility will be discussed with the medical department at the time of resumption of operations. In Fedasil, the medical situation of residents is systematically monitored. The centres have taken many steps to prevent infections. In the European project, Belgium committed at the end of 2019 to have the same number of resettlements as in previous years, i.e. 1,150. As there was not enough funding, the European Commission itself reduced this number to 758. They must of course be added to the persons who were not transferred and who were in the previous commitment. This then affects 1,639 people. There was a deadline of 30 June 2021, but here too, the European Commission extended the deadline until 31 December 2021 because of the coronavirus crisis. You know that the geographical priorities proposed by UNHCR and the European Union are always taken into account. Belgium indicated that it again prefers to have Syrian refugees, who are in the regions, to resettle them. In addition, 40 per cent of the quota is provided for Congolese refugees and other African countries. A third party will be evacuated from Libya to Rwanda or Niger.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u89	Minister, first of all, 457 people remain waiting for the relocation program to be implemented, rather than 475. We will put this on the blow of dyslexia or fatigue. For the rest, I am reassured that Belgium intends to continue its commitments. We must organise legal migration routes. It is with this global and European approach that we can at best have a structural migration policy. On the other hand, it is a bit disappointing that Europe, for lack of resources, is revising its volumes downwards. I understand that this is not Belgium's intention, but that it is a review of European resources, which again goes a little against what is expected of Europe, that is to say to have a common policy of solidarity and to put the necessary resources in place. However, I am very pleased with the news that will help those who will be able to settle in Belgium for a long time and turn to the most vulnerable beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u90	Madam Secretary, can we finish the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u91	Mr President, I have an agenda problem. My day isn't over, my week isn't over. We have the answers to the questions. If the oral questions are converted into written questions, we can forward the answers. I'm ten minutes late for my next appointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u92	Everyone was aware that we were working until 4:30 p.m. I thought I'd give you some information as to whether it might be possible later, but if that doesn't work for your agenda, I'll close the work for today. I would recommend to colleagues that they turn their questions into written questions. The Minister will then reply as soon as possible. Thank you for being here, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u93	Mr President, I wish to turn my questions Nos 55007777C and 55007784C into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u94	Mr President, I put my question to the House. 55007517C also like to put in a written question. Is it possible to get the answer immediately?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-10-55-commissie-ic233x.u95	Mr Segers, Mr Rigot, we can already send you the unofficial answers. For the rest, however, we must follow the procedure, including the translation. We can send all the answers to the secretariat today, but you will of course understand that it is the unofficial version, even though I will not change it before it becomes an official answer to your written question.
