ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u1	Minister, among the measures taken in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis, there is one that seems to me to be opening up prospects for reducing our prison overcrowding. Thus, with a view to reducing the risk of spread of the virus through promiscuity and congestion, you have adopted a decree aimed at allowing releases under strict conditions. This has given rise, unless I am mistaken, to more than a thousand releases which have not resulted in an increase in crime. Mr. Minister, is it not appropriate to draw some conclusions from this provision in order to sustain it, like what you are doing for other measures, and thus have a structural effect on the reduction of our prison overcrowding?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u2	Mrs Khattabi, the prison population was actually reduced by 1,200 people to about 9,600 prisoners at some point during the crisis. Yesterday, the population was 9,948. The measures that I took with Royal Decree No. 3 allowed 400 prisoners to benefit from an interruption of their sentences – the latter being gradually to return to prison from tomorrow – and 200 convicted prisoners who were six months before the end of their sentence to be released from prison. It is likely that this decrease is also due to lower crime rates, non-execution of certain non-priority convictions and increased use of electronic surveillance in pre-trial detention. A systematic and definitive interruption of the execution of the sentence following the emergency legislation adopted during the period VOCID-19 would violate the principle of separation of powers. Judgments and judgements handed down by the judiciary must be enforced. The same applies to the non-execution of certain convictions, which can only be temporary. Early release at six months before the end of the sentence already exists for convicted persons without the right of residence, provided that they are actually repatriated to their country of origin. This does not therefore exist for persons sentenced with a right of residence, a legislative initiative in Parliament is necessary to this end. However, I agree with you that the use and usefulness of imprisonment must be seen from a broader perspective. Interesting hearings have taken place on this subject in this committee following the discussions in Book I on the Criminal Code. I have also been in favour since the beginning of my mandate as Minister of Justice that the deprivation of liberty in pre-trial detention should continue as much as possible under electronic supervision. However, these are autonomous judicial decisions in which I am not able or authorized to interfere. However, I can see an increase in the number of detainees in pre-trial detention who now wear the electronic bracelet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u3	Thank you for your answer, minister, for the figures you give me. Of course, you don't have to interfere. I have in mind the respect of the limits of each other's action. However, like me, you plead for fewer incarcerations, especially in terms of pre-trial detention. This comes out of our prerogatives, yours as well as ours, but I think there should be a real assessment, a dialogue with the TAPs, the actors of justice in general, in order to try to draw the best conclusions from the crisis that we have just been through. We must try to have a notorious and structural impact on prison overcrowding. In the context of our committee's work, I will certainly go back to an evaluation to be carried out with the actors concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u4	Ms. Chair, Ms. Khattabi, the accessibility of courthouses to people with reduced mobility covers various aspects, such as physical access to the building, access to hearings and access to registry documents. DG ROJ's Infrastructure Directorate, also responsible for the logistical equipment of courtrooms, can intervene to improve access to justice for people with visual and/or hearing disabilities. The Régie des Bâtiments, responsible for the accessibility of public buildings for persons with reduced mobility, ensures the adequate accommodation of public services, including judicial services. This issue is taken into account in the real estate strategy of new projects or resettlement projects. Public procurement includes specific clauses on this subject. For example, as part of the new establishment of the Vilvorde Police Court, a ground floor with suitable access and a public toilet accessible to people with reduced mobility was chosen. In addition, a specific budget is provided for in the budget of the Régie des Bâtiments. Some 190,000 euros were invested in 2019 for all the buildings managed by the Régie. With regard to access to justice for the deaf, my administration has not received any requests or complaints regarding a lack of sign language interpreters. The facilities for access to justice, both in terms of understanding of justice and the conditions for free access to justice, are fully valid for persons with disabilities. Finally, it should be noted that second-line legal aid has never been automatic. Prior to the 2016 reform on access to justice, beneficiaries of the income replacement allowance for the disabled had to prove their situation and therefore provide the decision to grant the Minister with social security in his powers. The reform made the presumption of insufficient income refragable, which was already the case for a range of categories since 2011 (e.g. detainees, asylum seekers, etc.). Thus, these persons still benefit, on the basis of the document proving their situation, from a presumption of insufficient income. However, legal aid offices are now able, in case of doubt as to the financial situation of the person concerned, to request additional documents. In the event of a refusal to grant legal aid, applicants have the opportunity to appeal to the Labour Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u5	Minister, thank you for that answer. I will file written questions about the buildings as such. You are giving me figures without me being able to measure what this means in practice for someone who would present himself today in front of a courthouse, for example in a wheelchair. I will do the same for the deaf because it had been pinned in the Unia report that some of them were facing difficulties. Are we at such a point that, knowing that there is no interpretation, these people don't even appeal to justice anymore? That would be a shame. I will therefore explore the subject through a few written questions and also through contacts with the actors. I will not fail to return to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u6	Madam President, Minister, I have questioned you several times about the kidnapping of the thirteen-year-old boy who returned home three weeks ago after 40 days. Thanks to good work by the security services, seven suspects could immediately be apprehended, including some radicalised ones convicted of terrorist and other crimes in the past. One of those suspects, Lahoussine El Haski, is linked to the attacks in Spain. His conviction by the Court of Appeal in 2007 was broken by the Court of Cassation in 2015 following the judgment of Belgium by the European Court of Human Rights for not having received a fair trial. A new trial has not yet taken place. In the plenary session of three weeks ago, I made a number of suggestions for concrete steps to avoid such matters as much as possible. You have already agreed to the extension of the posting. With regard to the removal of the nationality of convicted terrorists, you suggested that this would not be possible for everyone, just for those who have dual nationality. You wanted to move on with that. I have also not forgotten your support for the regionalisation of justice. I have a few questions for you, Minister. Are you aware of any progress in the investigation that you can share with us? I understand there are limitations to that. In the meantime, for example, are there any clues as to what one intended to do with the ransom? Are there still seven suspects? Any suspects come in? Have they been apprehended? Are they free, which I hope not? If they're free, under what conditions is that? And why? What is important, perhaps, if we are going to look at nationality, what are the nationalities of the suspects in this investigation? Finally, when is the new process of El Haski planned? Isn't 2015 long enough to plan a new trial?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u7	Mr President, my questions are actually the same as those of Mrs De Wit. Very specifically, do I want to know if there are any indications that the ransom was used to sponsor terrorist practices? I hope, of course, that the six of the seven suspects are still in jail. In the meantime, have any other suspects been apprehended? How many of these suspects have dual nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u8	Mrs De Wit, Mrs Bury, the Attorney General of Antwerp has provided me with the following information. I quote: "At the moment eleven persons have been arrested, one of whom was initially released by the investigating judge under conditions, but which has since been detained. There's also a minor who was placed by the juvenile court. My office has no knowledge of dual nationalities. On the basis of the criminal record, the following nationalities appear: the Belgian for nine persons, the Moroccan for two persons, the Dutch for one person. In reply to the other questions, I can tell you that the judicial investigation is ongoing and that no further information can be disclosed at this stage, given the importance of the investigation." Finally, the federal prosecutor reports that Mr. El Haski's session is scheduled for 10 September 2020 before the Mons appeal court.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u9	Minister, you asked me last week to postpone my question, so that you could reply in detail. I note that it is nevertheless a very short answer, which could actually have been given last week. I understand, of course, the importance of the investigation. I am glad that the matter will be before the person concerned in September. Perhaps that would have been better sooner, then perhaps we would have found ourselves in a different situation, but well, the law enforcement services have done a good job. It is certainly important that the Justice Department keeps a close eye on such matters. If there is a break-up of a process, it is very difficult to explain that one has to wait five years before that process can be re-enacted. I don't understand that very well. I do, of course, know the separation of powers and I understand the situation in which we sometimes have to work in justice, but society is not so positive about justice. The sad thing is that the Justice Department, through such a case of someone who has been involved in attacks, does not move faster, each time it itself confirms that bad impression. That's very unfortunate. It is good that the process will take place in September, but it should have been over by now. For the rest, I'll write down the nationalities. There are no double nationalities. We are looking further at what we can do in this context in the area of legislation. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u10	Minister, I refer to Mr De Wit's reply. It is indeed a short answer, but it is a good answer. I hear that eleven people have now been arrested, while we were talking about seven people first, then six and now eleven, one of whom is in a youth institution. The Justice Department is working on it, and I'm happy to do that. Of course, I understand that the investigation is classified, but I would like to see the ransom dug. What would have happened to the ransom money, or that was used to sponsor other terrorist practices, those things certainly need to be worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament 55007246C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u12	Last week the newspaper said that there was a nuisance in Dilbeek and in Overijse there is an extortion of money. Local youth is blackmailed by young people from Brussels. This has happened three times. Both around the town hall of Dilbeek, and at the skate course there is a huge nuisance of young people. There also regularly drives around an Audi with personalized number plate Merdi. According to bystanders, that's the local drug dealer. It's also full of marijuana bags. People feel at their discomfort, are disturbed and can no longer walk outside. These cases all take place after sundown. That is a very problematic situation. Overijse has been the subject of a judicial investigation. In Dilbeek there would be police checks. Do you know about these problems and nuisances, perhaps even in other municipalities? Can these police zones actually handle that? There is an urgent need to investigate who this drug dealer is with a personalised license plate and whether he can be stopped. Were already identified young offenders in Dilbeek and Overijse. Have people been apprehended or apprehended there? If people have already been apprehended, were they placed in remand, were they released, possibly under conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u13	The Attorney General of Brussels has provided me with the following information. I quote: "As regards the facts in Overijse, on 6 June 2020, a group of seven young people between 15 and 20 threatened and intimidated another group of young people and forced them to give up their money. A boy got beaten up and got slightly hurt. Immediately after these facts, three persons were deprived of their freedom, of which two were minors and one was of age. For one minor, the juvenile judge was brought in. The other minor and adult were allowed to dispose of after questioning Salduz IV, but the investigation is ongoing. Following one of the interviews, a new earlier fact of May 30, 2020 came to light with a similar modus operandi. A report was drawn up for this purpose. Currently, the police are conducting increased patrols in the neighborhood. In Dilbeek it turns out to be a nuisance rather than a criminal offence. There are regular patrols by local police and checks are carried out. The local police report that measures are also being taken by the government. Occasionally, a volume of drug use was found, but no evidence of drug sales was found or a judicial investigation was initiated. Facts of mainly defamation and rebellion were established. These are both young people from Brussels and young people from Dilbeek himself. According to local police, the problems would be under control and certainly not escalating lately."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the latter is indeed a sentence that should not have been spoken. Last night there was another city council in Dilbeek, in the very beautiful and large town hall. Downstairs, there were kids joyriding. That gave a pretty hell of a noise. A city council member of my party has requested that the hearing be suspended and have a look outside. Mayor Willy Segers didn't go into that and just continued the hearing. There's nothing under control there. There is nothing under control and there is an urgent need to change that. People just don't dare come out anymore. I'm just looking at the newspaper: a rave party was shut down on the border between Ruisbroek and Drogenbos. That was last night, too. There are parties in the Laarbeek forest. That is in Jette, which is on the border between the Flemish Rand and Brussels. We see that this situation is completely out of control. This must be done urgently, because it cannot be explained to the people that young people, especially now in the corona crisis, are making such a mess there. You say that in Dilbeek it would not be about criminal facts. There are garden houses being robbed, electric bicycles stolen and people threatened in their front yard. It's more than a group of young people listening to loud music.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u15	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, additional licences for videoconferencing and webinars, known as Cisco Webex, were invested for EUR 397 000. In addition, additional PCs, laptops, screens and headphones were invested in the necessary hardware to support the operation during the lockdown and after. Like you, I call for appropriate use of videoconferencing in crisis time and, if possible, beyond. However, I note that there is still a great deal of resistance to the proper use of this computer tool. The introduction of videoconferencing as a replacement and complementer of the physical prison visit was a success. It was installed in a short time and had an instant success that also persisted after the physical visit became possible again. I can get you the statistics on the video calls made by inmates. This is proof that a sensible use of videoconferencing can bring more humanity to justice. The use of videoconferencing in the judiciary is already well established abroad, a movement launched under the Belgian Presidency of the European Union. I hope that this committee will hold a thorough debate on this in the near future. Perhaps that can convince the opponents to come to the right compromise, because perhaps this too is unknownly unloved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u16	Minister, we have the same opinion on this. I hear that some money has also been invested in the new resources that we were able to use during the corona crisis. The crisis was not pleasant, but it did offer an opportunity to use these modern resources. All this was well announced in the press and it is therefore somewhat disappointing if it is taken away immediately now that we have a view of the end of the crisis. I hope, like you, that we will soon be able to have this debate in our committee. If it can be done in other countries, why couldn't it be done here? We're gonna keep following this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u17	Minister, I am glad that after more than a year in Parliament I can finally be present on the Committee on Justice. I'd like to ask you a few questions about Avrox's story. We heard in the press that there is a criminal investigation in the dossier of the substances mouth masks for the population. Can you confirm that an investigation has indeed been opened in the file? Who took the initiative and when? What are the alleged facts in the case? Which services are responsible for the investigation? Is the military police also working on this, since the case was handled by the Defense Department? What police and judicial means will one use to ensure that the investigation is carried out in full independence? What are the first deadlines for the search?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u18	Mr Freilich, given that this is an ongoing criminal investigation, I can only inform you of the information made available to me by the Attorney General of Brussels. I quote: "After receipt of a report, an investigation has been opened. No constitutional element of a crime has been identified at this stage. However, the investigation is not yet closed. It was the police forces who took the initiative to draw up a report on the basis of articles published in the press."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I can't wait to see what that research will yield. The Court of Auditors will look at the entire award on my question. I also understand that the Federal Internal Audit received a number of letters from people involved in the case. I am convinced that the police will conduct a proper investigation and hope that the dossier will be clarified as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u20	Minister, I have heard the amounts you have invested in computer equipment. While waiting to move forward on the hearings by video-conferencing, is there no reason not to leave this unused material? As allowed during the pandemic, it could be used to allow inmates to maintain contact with their families. The family sometimes lives far away and physical visits are not always simple. Like the numbers on the hearings, do you have a view of the numbers on the use made by inmates of this means of communication with their families? Would you be open to the idea that detainees still have access to this material to keep contact with their families by video-conferencing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u21	You're the one talking about sustainability. That's interesting. The video-conferencing visit, Ms. Khattabi, is currently ongoing, along with the resumption of physical visits to prisons. The prison administration is also examining the possibility of making this measure sustainable, being fully aware of its positive contribution to maintaining the links between prisoners and their families. I recognize the importance of maintaining these family ties and the positive effect that personal contact with their loved ones can have on inmates. That is why I am pleased to inform you that between May 1 and June 21, a total of 21,408 video-conferencing conversations were held in prison. This is an average of more than two conversations per inmate. I'll give you the numbers if you want to receive them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer, and thank you for your follow-up to my question on the sustainability of this means of contact between families and inmates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u23	Madam President, Minister, on 16 June, a prison union announced that it had filed a strike notice for a directive sent by the Federal Public Service Justice. According to that directive, new prisoners, prisoners temporarily released and prisoners returning from prison leave are neither tested nor placed in preventive isolation. The guards are right to argue that the virus is brought into prison in this way. They also deplore the fact that this measure has been implemented without social consultation, although it also has a major impact on the health of prison staff. In the meantime, the strike commitment has been withdrawn after consultation, as the legitimate demands of the trade unions have been met. Mr Minister, was this directive not contrary to the spirit of Sciensano's testing isolation for the control of the virus? In your view, there was no great risk of bringing the virus into prison, which allowed a large group of prisoners to be infected? Why did you implement such a measure without social consultation? At your level and at other levels of policy, we saw ministers taking decisions without consulting the field which are not feasible or dangerous in practice. Do you agree that this crisis should teach us to build and rely on the wisdom of the field? After consultation, the strike commitment was finally withdrawn. From now on, tests and preventive isolation of new prisoners and detainees coming from outside the prison are being carried out. Do you not think it is a pity that a strike commitment is always needed to enforce social dialogue? What lessons do you draw from this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u24	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, the directive to which you refer already provided that the prisoners who returned from prison breaks and new arrivals are tested for freedom on COOVID-19. However, as of 18 June 2020, those two categories of detainees were removed from preventive isolation for 14 days. A number of additional preventive measures have been taken which, in conjunction with general protection measures such as mouth masks, distance retention and hygiene, limit the risks associated with in- and out-bound movements. I did have social dialogue before the measure was introduced. The general principles were presented orally during the consultation on 10 June 2020. The draft note was sent to the trade unions by e-mail on Friday morning 12 June 2020 for comments, which they were able to pass on until Monday 15 June 2020. This deadline was short because the note had effect from 18 June 2020. The DG EPI responded to the trade unions' comments. Some comments were also addressed. I am doing my best to consult all measures which also affect working conditions. Unfortunately, however, some of the time limits of the syndical statute cannot always be fully respected in crisis situations. Moreover, the syndical statute stipulates that it is possible during epidemics not to consult, provided that this is justified. However, I always prefer to do so. The instructions have now been modified, which means that new incoming persons and the prisoners who return after interruption will not only be tested, but will also be put in preventive medical isolation for 24 hours. Inmates who are on penitentiary leave or come back after an exit permit are kept in medical isolation for 24 hours and seen by the physician within that period of time. The physician will then assess, based on the presence or absence of symptoms related to COVID-19, whether the medical isolation should be prolonged and whether effective testing should be performed. In this case, medical isolation will continue to be prolonged until the results of the test are known. That preventive measure is not contrary to the principles adopted after the Security Council of 3 June 2020, nor to the rights of the detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for your indulgences and the social dialogue. In the past, however, we have had several discussions in the hemisphere on whether or not to recognise social dialogue. You will see that such a consultation is beneficial to the situation. We therefore call for greater social dialogue between you and the social partners in the future. However, I would like to thank you for your indulgence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I am very concerned about the growth of the extreme right in Belgium. The security services are also concerned about the growth of the far right in our society. They say that this growth is associated with a greater safety risk. What do they mean by this, Minister? Can you tell us more about the work of the security services in this area? What is your own assessment of this as Minister of Justice, responsible for the intelligence services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u27	Madam President, Mr Colebunders, several indicators point to the growth of right-wing extremism in our society. That phenomenon is not confined to our country. In several European and Western countries outside the European Union, there are indications of an increasing importance of right-wing extremism. Belgium does not escape this trend. An indicator is the number of hate propagandaists included in the common database. By mid-April 2020, 30 right-wing extremists opposed to just ten years ago. In recent years, Belgium has been spared from attacks by right-wing extremists. However, this does not mean that there is no real threat. For the security of the State, an attack by a so-called lone actor was the most likely scenario. Apart from the terrorist threat of violence, there is also an extremist threat of right-wing extremistism. By spreading hatred and spreading division, extremism threatens to spread the bed for those who want to engage in armed action. The intelligence and security services in Belgium cooperate closely in the framework of the Plan R, the Plan Radicalism. Right-wing extremist individuals are discussed and followed by the local task forces. At national level, a thematic working group regularly examines right-wing extremism. The Security of the State, the OCAD, the military intelligence service, the federal police and other relevant administrations systematically exchange information to identify phenomena and to act appropriately. In addition, information is regularly exchanged with the federal prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. However, I would ask you to look further at these concerns, including with your colleague from the Interior. If we only keep an eye on certain target groups, we forget to look to the right. That's what we hold our hearts for even more. However, I would like to stress that we should keep a close eye on this, so that we will not be faced with any surprises in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u29	Mrs Khattabi, my office has read the study of the League of Families. First of all, let me briefly describe how the children's visit to their parents in prison is currently taking place. Children may see their parent detained, accompanied or supervised. In each institution, special supervised visits for detained parents and their children are provided in normal times. Children's spaces with a play area or toys are available almost everywhere, whether permanently or linked to the organization of the guided tours. A detainee may also request an unsupervised family visit with his or her children. Through the partners guiding the specific visits, activities at the Saint-Nicolas, Easter or the Fathers' Day or Mothers' Day are organised. However, these activities vary from one institution to another as long as they depend on the association that organizes them. I recognize the importance of taking into account the psychological, economic and geographical impact that a person's imprisonment may have on his or her relatives, especially when it comes to young children. However, I believe that the ICD on women's rights is not the appropriate platform to address these issues since the psychosocial consequences cited by the study of the League of Families go beyond women's rights and also relate, for example, to paternity in detention. Nevertheless, I am fully prepared to continue to work with other actors, including the Communities, to maintain the family ties of prisoners and their relatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u30	Minister, thank you. In my question, I made a few suggestions on which you do not stand. You say that the League of Families, like me, will be pleased with your answer to a previous question about video conferencing. I also referred to the extension of visiting hours or the fact of taking into account the place of residence in all judicial or transfer decisions, etc. I didn't hear you about that. With regard to the ICD, I did not refer at all to the Interministerial Conference on Equality. I was thinking about ICD Justice. I think there was one last week. On the question of visits, the Communities also have powers. The Relais Enfants association is not within your competence. That's why I was thinking about ICD Justice. From this point of view, I did not get an answer and am surprised that you did not have in mind the ICD on justice. For the rest, if the situation has been the subject of a study by the League of Families, it is proof that some aspects still need to be improved. I regret that I did not hear you on these elements and that I did not hear you make a commitment. We welcome your response to the video conferencing, but that is only part of the problem. That is why, Minister, I will come back to ask you a more systematic question, with a view to knowing the position that all the suggestions made by the League inspire you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u31	Madam Chair, Minister, the next Interdepartmental Conference on Women's Rights will be held this Friday, June 26. According to information provided to me by my colleagues in the Walloon Parliament, who interviewed Minister Morreale, it will deal with violence against women. The issue of sexual violence has been put on your agenda. It also includes the fight against sexism and harassment, the difficult socio-economic situation of women following the VOCID-19 crisis and obstetric violence. These issues, of course, remain fundamental during the defining period and the post-COVID-19 period. Do you confirm that this is the final agenda? Will the federal government make specific commitments at this ICD? Did he put any other points, which you could communicate to me, on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Schlitz, at the first ICD meeting on women's rights on 8 May 2020, I asked the ICD to take note of the current status of the action plan against sexual violence/Justice. The plan includes several purely federal points of action as well as points calling for federated entities. Indeed, an effective approach to this issue requires an integrated and ingested approach by all stakeholders, which means that we must combine and coordinate our efforts. I therefore asked the ICD to agree to set up a working group to further expand and develop this plan. At the ICD preparatory meetings between the offices of federal ministers and ministers of the federal entities concerned with the issue, it was agreed to include this plan and the topic of sexual violence in addressing the broader issue of domestic violence and gender-based violence. The aim is to include a number of other topics, to which you also refer, in the work of the ICD. It will be possible to address these topics at future meetings. The next meeting will focus specifically on domestic violence and gender-based violence, with a view to achieving a comprehensive and systematic approach in the short term. The ICD meeting on women's rights will be held on 26 June 2020, under the coordination of Secretary of State Ben Hamou of Brussels. Decisions taken during the meeting will be communicated at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to have the conclusions of this new meeting. We're expecting a lot. In the plenary session, two weeks ago, parliamentarians voted on two important resolutions which give the government a mandate to put in place a series of actions to combat domestic violence and specific violence against women and children in the context of the crisis, but also more broadly. You now have a real mandate to move forward on this issue with extremely concrete measures described in these two resolutions. I therefore urge you to take up these various recommendations and put them on the ICD table in order to stem this problem which is really heavy in our country. We had a femicide the day before yesterday. I am therefore very worried about what is happening in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u34	Minister, in response to my last question about the Dubai Papers investigation (QO 4340C), you told me that the latter was blocked – like other things in our society – by the containment imposed by the fight against coronavirus. If the confinement has legitimately put the investigation on hold, the crisis cannot serve as an excuse to refrain from voluntarism in this case. Little by little, life begins again. Therefore, Minister, I would like answers to the following questions. Could the investigation have resumed normally? If so, has she moved forward? Have any investigators been appointed in the various judicial districts? How many files have been opened? If not, can you provide us with more information on the resumption of the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u35	Mr Gilkinet, you talk to me in the clouds, like God in old movies. So I am not happy to see you, but in any case: good afternoon! I refer you to my reply of 30 April last to your written question on this subject. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has informed me that this information remains relevant and that no additional information can be provided at this time, given the status of the case and the ongoing investigations. I apologize for the brevity of my answer and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u36	Minister, if you don't see me, it's because of a camera problem that I apologize for. If you saw me, you would see me frowning my eyebrows and you would notice that my face expresses the disappointment that your answer inspires me. As you say, your previous answer is almost two months ago. You told me that the investigation was on hold because of the confinement. Evidence had been brought to light in this case and was evidence of organized tax fraud. That is why I ask you to exercise your influence and to fulfil your role as Minister of Justice so that this matter can be resumed, so as not to allow this tax fraud to go unpunished on a large scale.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u37	Minister, the fight against tax evasion is a vital issue for any democracy. To be effective, this declaration of intent must be followed in practice by an appropriate legislative arsenal, and I have a small concern there. Until recently, the law provided for the possibility for the State, through its tax administration, to become a civil party in criminal proceedings and to institute proceedings before civil courts in order to obtain compensation for its damage in cases of tax evasion. Article 79 of the Act of 26 March 2018 on strengthening economic growth and social cohesion enshrined this right of the tax administration. However, on 5 May 2019, a law containing various provisions introduced, through its article 83, an article 4bis in the Code of Criminal Investigation which provides that the State will no longer be a party to criminal proceedings in respect of financial crime. His actions will be subject to the will of the public prosecutor. The prosecutor's office will decide whether or not to investigate a particular case and decide whether or not to institute a public prosecution. The inclusion of this Article 4bis endangers the State's ability to recover in criminal proceedings involving financial crime, since it will no longer be able to act independently. In cases of major tax evasion, it should be noted that the amounts to be recovered can be in hundreds of millions of euros. Therefore, Minister, what was the intention of the introduction of section 4bis in this bill? Prior to this change of law, how many cases had the federal state filed for civil action in the last five years? Has an evaluation of this change in legislation been completed? What is its outcome, particularly as regards the effectiveness of the fight against tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u38	Mevrouw de voorzitter, Mr Gilkinet, the purpose of the new article 4bis of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Investigation is, when the Public Prosecutor's Office criminally prosecutes tax fraud, after notification or not at the time of an una via concertation, to bring the whole dispute before a single judge, namely the criminal judge. The latter is therefore also competent to decide on the civil claims of the tax administration. In addition, the criminal court may also charge tax increases or fines imposed by the tax administration in its penal sanction. The principle of non bis in idem is thus respected. The new Article 4a is therefore intended precisely to speed up the handling of cases before the courts, rather than the duplication of proceedings. It was also the wish of the tax authorities. In this way, it was also possible to avoid the requirements of tax claims during criminal proceedings. I refer you to the detailed debates and hearings that took place on this subject in this committee last year. I didn't hold my arms. I certainly did not hesitate to step up the fight against tax fraud to the extent of my ability. One of the initiatives that I have taken to strengthen the fight against tax fraud is the una via file that I have drawn up with my colleague in Finance, in particular by allowing better coordination of the tax and criminal approach, by giving a new legal basis to una via consultation. In addition, tax prosecutors have been strengthened by tax substitutes and seconded tax experts. I also refer to the initiative of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office to create a pool of specialised prosecutors from the general and district prosecutors' offices to combat serious and organised economic and financial crime, tax fraud, environmental crime and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-24-55-commissie-ic219x.u39	Minister, thank you for all the initiatives that have been taken in the fight against tax fraud. I could certainly mention many others here, but in this case, I was looking at the inability of the state, since the amendment of the law, to take civil action to intervene directly in certain cases, to speed up or to direct the processing of certain cases. You have not answered my specific questions, so I will rest in writing. I am thinking in particular of the fact that, in significant cases, the federal state was, and cannot be, a civil party. Despite some improvements, this is a loss of efficiency in the fight against tax evasion. When I read the text that has been voted, I find this change in the law quite incomprehensible. I'm one of the legislators. I wonder to what extent this specific aspect of the text should not be corrected. Thank you and I wish you and the Speaker and the House of Commons a good end of the day.
