ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u1	Colleagues, Madam Secretary, welcome to our committee. There are three topical debates and a series of oral questions on the agenda. We will begin the first topical debate immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u2	The first questioner, Mr Colebunders, is absent. Mrs van Peel has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked this question in plenary, but unfortunately the Prime Minister gave us very few concrete answers. You are competent for many of the policy areas involved. That's why I'm asking you the question. During this period we are more dependent on the home situation, and that is not equally positive for everyone. Many families face intra-family violence. A lot of children are involved in this. From the first lockdown we know that the number of calls to the guides has increased significantly. From this, it can be expected that the number of facts has also increased considerably. That is also logical: especially in these times children are very difficult to send signals to others about what is happening at home. Madam Secretary, during this period, how do you commit police forces and such like? Do you actively urge them, despite the corona crisis, to visit families who know that family violence is taking place and that children may be at risk? There are many initiatives where the Flemish government does everything. A little more could also be done at federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u4	Madam Minister, my question is of a slightly different order from that of the previous speaker, although it is also about the security priorities that we will set in the coming months. Last summer, for the sake of corona, there was no BOB campaign, as we have known for decades. Nevertheless, the police did aspire to keep enough alcohol controls. After all, we all know that sufficient controls and a sufficiently high chance of taking action are crucial. We agree on this in this committee and in the Committee on Mobility. It's even inscribed in the coalition agreement. By the end of November 2020, the BOB winter campaign will normally start. With the celebration period on the doorstep, the importance of alcohol controls will also remain great, but we all know that because of the current corona wave it is very difficult to look ahead. Like the previous speaker, I understand that police forces will have their hands full with many additional tasks. However, I would urge you to consider how we can carry out sufficient alcohol controls in the coming months. I have a number of questions about that. How many alcohol controls have been carried out in recent months? How many of these tests were positive? Will there be another PDO campaign in the coming months? What measures will be taken to ensure that alcohol testing can be carried out safely for both police and drivers? Were there any problems in that regard last summer? Were there any complaints about this from policemen or car drivers? What measures will you take to encourage local police to fully commit to adequate alcohol controls? Does the federal police have the manpower available to organize at least as many alcohol controls over the next few months as last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u5	Thank you, Mrs Buyst. Mr Ravyts is not here, neither is Mr Cogelati. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bury on the legal challenge of the compulsory closure of the catering industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u6	I refer to the question submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u7	As you know, Madam Minister, the health situation we are facing affects society as a whole. In the face of illness, social positions fade. There are only human beings more or less exposed and more or less sensitive. Police officers in local areas are not spared and the attrition of the workforce due to illness is becoming increasingly difficult in maintaining a vital service to the population. In this context, I was particularly surprised to learn that the federal police refer to horizontal solidarity between local areas to fill the gaps created by the disease in the police ranks. Such an approach seems to me quite contradictory to the spirit that must animate our integrated police structured on two levels. Local areas must be able to rely on the support of the federal police in carrying out their missions. So, do you confirm to me that local areas have been asked to rely primarily on horizontal solidarity to address the staffing problems posed by the virus? Why would the federal police not be able to respond to requests from local areas for support in the current situation? What is the number of personnel available to the federal police to respond to these requests and how is it currently deployed? In general, can you inform me of the state of the situation in terms of the absence of VOCID in local police areas and within the federal police?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u8	Minister, since the beginning of the health crisis and to date, a great deal of emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus have been taken, in addition to special power orders by ministerial orders. These measures were signed by your predecessor, Pieter De Crem, and then by yourself. These measures, which I do not, of course, call into question in the light of the situation, are increasingly being criticized, in particular by lawyers, who are surprised that such measures are adopted on a recurring basis by regulatory standards, which in addition is signed by a single minister or a single minister. It is striking that last week no fewer than 25 constitutionalists from all over the country fired the alarm bell. They took the pen to recall, in both French and Dutch, the principle of formal legality which requires, in order to limit rights and freedoms, the intervention of a democratically elected deliberative assembly, in other words of Parliament. An excerpt from their remarks is: "This way of working violates the Constitution. Indeed, it requires that significant restrictions on rights and freedoms be decided by Parliament itself. However, the legislation on which the government relies is not at all intended to regulate long and massive restrictions on rights and freedoms as we currently know them." Madam Minister, in view of the health situation, which remains very serious, it is essential that the measures put in place are legally sound and can be fully implemented. However, as it stands, VOCID-19 orders are likely to be called into question. Thus, on 21 September last, a police judge declared inadmissible the public action brought on the basis of the ministerial decree of 23 March 2020 against a citizen who had failed to comply with the confinement. Other judges could make similar judgements on this order - or the following - and refuse to apply it. In conclusion, in order to avoid this legal uncertainty that weakens the measures, these constitutional and legal experts advocate the adoption of a "corona law". What do you think about this position of our best specialists on the subject? Are you considering seeking the House's support to consolidate the measures taken to give all guarantees of respect for the rule of law, in the interests of all?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u9	Madam Minister, since Mr Moyaer is experiencing technical difficulties, I will ask my question about the breakdown of police personnel by COVID-19 and the possible introduction of priority and preventive tests on COVID-19. According to the latest figures from the federal police, 557 officers were at home on October 19th. Half of them would be sick because of corona, the other half had to stay in quarantine because they had come into contact with an infected person. The situation would be even more alarming because these numbers almost doubled after 19 October. I like to get confirmation or denial, which would be even better. The police unions fear the worst. In fact, it is so bad that they fear that basic police care would no longer be guaranteed and that there would be no more agents to act. They want police officers to be able to be tested as a matter of priority and preventive. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Can you confirm the figures quoted? How has the number of infections and quarantine cases evolved since 19 October? In the meantime, was priority and preventive testing of police personnel carried out? How is this practically arranged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u10	Mr President, having not heard the beginning of your work, my question is whether I can group my two questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u11	Yes, you can!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u12	Minister, my first question is about domestic violence during the VOCID period. Last September, the statistics of the Public Prosecutor's Office reported 4,200 cases of domestic violence between March and June 2019, 5260 cases between March and June of 2020: "depending on the location, it is an increase of 13 to 15% that is noted," says the Prosecutor of the King of Liège. It is unlikely that a couple's confinement was beneficial to all, since an increase of 30% was recorded for cases of conjugal disputes which are not specifically offences but which are the subject of police intervention or complaints. The press also reveals an increase in domestic violence in the regions of Tournai and Walloon Brabant. This increase appears to be clearly widespread. The Listening to Violence Conjugal Line has seen a 20-30% increase in telephone help requests. A few hours ago, new measures were taken: we are again plunged into partial confinement with a curfew more than certainly conducive to a resurgence of domestic violence, closed schools or distance education. While these new measures are essential from a health point of view, they do not augur well for domestic violence. In addition, police personnel are also affected by cases of VOCID-19 and quarantine. Will there still be enough to ensure effective follow-up of victims of domestic violence? Madam Minister, last June, two motions for resolutions were adopted by Parliament: removal of the perpetrator from the victim's home, awareness-raising of the police services, faster and simpler protocols, point of contact, platform and SMS system to report cases. Minister, what is the status of implementation of these resolutions? In concrete terms, what solutions are in place to help victims and combat domestic violence? Given the increase in domestic violence experienced during the confinement last spring, do you intend to make it a priority? If so, how? My second question concerns the number of coronavirus contaminations within the integrated police force. As we have just pointed out, the number of cases of coronavirus continues to increase within the integrated police force. As of 19 October 2020, 557 police officers were in quarantine, half of whom were due to VOCID and the remainder had been in contact with a contaminated person. However, the federal police spokesman said the following week that "the figures are only very partial and incomplete. In the last week", (following that of 19 October 2020) "40s have almost doubled". The rate of absenteeism among police personnel in some areas is rising because of the corona. The Midi police zone (Anderlecht, Forest and Saint-Gilles) reports that between 10% and 15% of the area's personnel are positive for coronavirus. Minister, what is the status of the situation? Could you indicate the current percentage of police officers who are absent (for illness or as a result of contact with infected persons) in the police force? How do you intend to control the Corona measures if the police officers themselves are absent? You asked the government to administer tests for coronavirus to the agents. What about it? Have the tests been distributed to the federal police and police areas? What type of tests are involved? In addition to testing and distancing measures, are additional measures planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u13	Mr President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u14	Mr. Chair, Minister, I tabled this question as soon as the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference (IMC) on October 19th, when the testing strategy was changed. I was surprised to see that the police forces had not been integrated into the priority groups by the ICD. Last week, I was able to report this to the Minister of Health, who told me that the action had to be taken in an emergency. On the other hand, if it appeared necessary that the police should be taken up very quickly in the priority testing, it seemed to me legitimate that the emergency and response services should be taken on board as well. I am thinking in particular of firefighters and front-line civil protection services. Since my question was tabled, it has become the case. Even if it's recently, it's a great thing. However, it is quite interesting to note that these front-line professions have not been directly integrated into the priority groups, in order to ensure their protection and that of their colleagues and to reduce unnecessary quarantines in order to ensure a workforce that can guarantee basic security tasks, compliance with measures taken to combat the spread of coronavirus such as curfew and closing times, and assistance and emergency interventions. Let me also add the urgency of NAPAP 2021. Indeed, if this federal measure is not sustained through a budget item before a more structural measure and communicated quickly to police areas and communes, the problems of end-of-care absenteeism and the difficulties of recruiting and replacing absent staff will be reinforced. And we all know that there is a recurring problem at the workforce level. Minister, under what procedure did you make the request for police testing? Have you had to be consulted at the Interministerial Public Health Conference on the health crisis and testing strategy? Should the response to your request to include police officers in the priority testing be accepted by the ICD or simply by the federal Minister of Health? Depending on which decision-making process, the list of Is testing priority occupational groups determined? How do you explain that it took ten days for your application to become effective? Is your application limited to symptomatic agents or those that have been in contact with a positive colleague? Does your department have an opportunity to monitor the situation of asymptomatics as part of a priority testing for police officers? Have you requested that the salivary test be carried out, allowing a faster diagnosis, for our police officers, fire and civil protection services? Finally, what is the status of NAPAP 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u15	Madam Minister, about a month ago, we read in the media that the police forces of the Brussels-Capital Region are relatively low in their writing. For example, only 46 procedural documents were drawn up throughout the Brussels region, of which only two were drawn up in the Molenbeek coronahotspot. That's pretty poignant, isn't it? The figures then evolved to dark red.................................................................................................................................. The chief of police of the Brussels-Hoofstad-Elsene police area, Michel Goovaerts, defended himself and said that they were first sensitized before drawing up pvs. I quote him, "It's not a pv contest." Given the worrying figures in the capital city, the time of sensitisation has long passed and now needs to be reduced; a firm approach is needed. Another reason for the minimum enforcement would be the processing capacity of the Brussels parquet. It was indicated that the parquet was getting more and more difficult to process the incoming PVs. The VSOA spoke of a certain fatigue among the agents, because the parquet didn't do much with the pv's drawn up. Today, the impression of lack of enforcement is not gone away, hence the following questions. How many corona-pvs were written in the Brussels-Capital Region in the last month? It was promised to increase the capacity of the Brussels police zones. Has that happened yet? In view of the news of the high number of infections in the corps, is it sufficient to ensure decisive enforcement? Maintaining the corona measures is still important today and can only succeed if they are adequately addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u16	Minister, in recent weeks, many illegal festive gatherings have been observed by the police. For example, Louvain-la-Neuve, Desteldonk, Leeuw-Saint-Pierre and Machelen. On the weekend of 17 and 18 October, probably due to the announcement of the new health measures on Friday, 16 October, a very large number of illegal festivals were observed in Ghent, Anderlecht, Eupen, Ham, etc. This same phenomenon was repeated the following weekend with clandestine festivities observed in Maasmechelen, Saint-Vith or La Louvière. Minister, can we get more details about the number of illegal festive rallies observed in recent weeks and, more specifically, on the weekends of October 17-18 and October 24-25? Has the number of illegal festivals observed since then decreased? Have any actions been or are being taken within the police to anticipate the occurrence of such clandestine events? In advance, Madam Minister, I thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u17	Minister, as you know, our police officers are in a very difficult situation in the context of the pandemic. They are on the front line and their personal health is exposed. They must enforce new rules for the vast majority of our citizens. The Charleroi Police Court recently handed down a judgement that does not facilitate the follow-up of the actions of our police officers. In its judgement of 21 September 2007, the Court ruled that the binding measures set out in the ministerial decree could not be taken on the basis of article 182 of the Civil Protection Act of 15 May 2007. We know that today many cases for non-compliance with the health measures decided in this context are before the country's police courts and that legal uncertainty seems to be high on the follow-up of police records. The sense of impunity that has developed, due to the promotion of this judgement and the well-founded pleadings of lawyers, relayed in the press, create obvious difficulties for the police officers in valuing the work they have carried out for weeks in the conditions that are known, and for the work they are doing today, which may in a way be weakened by this ministerial decree. Could you please tell me what legal analysis of the judgement of the Charleroi Police Court was carried out by your department? What elements do they make up the arguments of this decision in the ongoing appeal process? What measures have already been taken by the government to challenge the legality of the ministerial decree, which would prevent it from turning the facts found into criminal offences? Finally, what information has your department provided to police services and local police area directorates in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u18	Madam Minister, I refer to my question No. 55010567C. What are the recent developments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u19	The Consultation Committee decided on 30 October as a result of the lockdown 2.0 to close all non-essential sectors until 15 December. Why did it take so long before the definition of non-essential sector was known? Many entrepreneurs and staff had to live in uncertainty until the ministerial decision was published: some things thought they should close, but were allowed to remain open, and vice versa. We do not think that long-term uncertainty and uncertainty are correct. I understand that you have tried to exclude as much unfair competition as possible. But you haven't quite succeeded. Supermarkets had to take all toys out of the lanes, because the toy stores had to close, but vapeshops also had to close the doors, while newspapershops and shops of service stations can continue to sell electronic cigarettes. Why was it not immediately communicated, from the outset, which sectors were ultimately allowed to remain open? Why did the merchants have to wait days scaredly for the publication of the ministerial decision? Was there a lot of uncertainty in the government about who was allowed to stay open? How do you evaluate your communication around that? Has the government taken into account errors from the first lockdown? Do you think you have been able to overcome any unfair competition? Which sectors do you not consider essential? What specific definition have you used in this respect? What are the estimated economic costs?I had originally addressed my question to the Minister of Economics, but she was referred to the Committee of the Interior of the second lockdown?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, last week a French newspaper echoed the existence of a contamination cluster at the Chooz nuclear power plant. Thirty cases of VOCID-19 positive people were reported, and there are probably more cases today. If the fears of a nuclear incident are real in the population, and especially when it is on the edge of a power plant, it is even more true in time of VOCID-19, as emergency services are fully mobilized by the management of the pandemic. More worryingly, Mr Hardeman, the director of AFCN, interviewed recently by one of my colleagues, himself acknowledged that nothing was planned to deal with a health crisis caused by a pandemic and a nuclear incident at the same time. What would happen, for example, in the event of major staff absences? Given the current crisis situation, we must, even more than usual, anticipate all situations and ensure full control of the operation of nuclear power plants by taking all necessary measures. Of course, the Chooz power plant is not located in our Belgian territory and it is not within our competence to take measures for ourselves regarding its operation. However, given its geographical location, the Belgian population, and in particular the Namibian population, which is bordering, is primarily concerned, and dialogue must be initiated. Minister, because of your dialogue with the French state and the French nuclear safety authority, have you been informed of this cluster in Chooz? Has a specific relay been made to the Belgian authorities? For example, have the collaborative protocols adapted? Have you received any guarantees regarding the safety of the Chooz plant during this epidemic among workers? Have the French authorities anticipated a possible deterioration in health which could have consequences for staff who may be absent, for checks which may be postponed and for emergency plans which need to be adapted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u21	Mr. President, Madam Minister, as recent events in Colfontaine have highlighted, emergency preparedness is a valuable service, including in the fight against the pandemic. For example, in my area, nursing homes, which are victims of a outbreak of contamination, use civil protection as a means of disinfecting the premises. However, the delays in intervention show once again that the coverage of the territory in a two-barracked regime rather than six is not optimal. I remain a strong supporter of a minimal reopening of a civil protection branch on the Ghlin site, which would also be in line with the density of Seveso sites in the Mons-Borinage region. Minister, do you intend to re-evaluate the choice of barracks maintained for emergency preparedness, so that the response time remains below an acceptable threshold for the protection of our people? In view of the existing risks for effective coverage of Mons-Borinage and Hainaut, are you in favour of the return of a civil protection branch to Ghlin?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Ingels and Mrs Matz, as regards the figures on absenteeism in the police force, I can tell you the following. The police monitor the number of absences due to COVID-19. The figures available to me today give a clear indication, but they are not yet complete. In the meantime, the Integrated Police Task Force has asked all the areas of the local and federal police to report the figures accurately, on the basis of the circular that we have launched for this purpose. On Friday 6 November a total of 1,326 police officers were absent. 770 were ill, positive or waiting for the result of their test. 556 employees were quarantined. Of the 1,326, 827 people were part of the federal police, 494 of the local police, and 5 of the Social Service of the Integrated Police. This means that a small 3% of the police force is absent because of COOVID-19. Since the beginning of the crisis, police figures have been following developments in the rest of our society. If, however, the available police capacity threatened to fall below the necessary threshold, for example with the closure of a police station, with a quarantine peak in an area or direction, the alarm bell is then drawn and the appropriate measures are taken internally under the impulse of the GPI task force, according to the principles stated. Lateral support is being provided initially, that is, other local police areas are being used to provide such support, for many practical reasons, such as field knowledge, expertise in mission delivery and access to the right information technology system. This principle also applies to the Federal Police, which provides internal mutual assistance between the various services and components regarding the continuity of these essential features. Subsequently, support from the Federal Reserve may be sought by local police areas in order to maintain compliance with health measures. As a result, an average of fifty police officers per day are available in this context. The police have put in place a system for monitoring absences. The figures available to date provide a good indication that the absence due to VOCID-19 is limited to less than 3% of capacity. As regards trade unions' requests for more protection for the police and priority for police in testing, it was decided to use the antigen rapid test also for police and firefighters, for diagnosis in outbreaks of infection, in individuals with and without complaints. These rapid tests have the great advantage that the result is known up to half an hour after the test is taken. The tests are still less reliable today and the internal police services are considering what strategy will be used to further rely on these tests. In the meantime, the following asymptomatic and symptomatic staff shall be tested as a priority. First, police officers with an essential function that had high risk contact and are asymptomatic. "essential function' means, in the first instance, the functionalities necessary to maintain or support enforcement in order to manage the pandemic and, in function of available capacity, additional functionalities as foreseen in the various business continuity plans. In addition, the clusters of infections are monitored, i.e. teams where multiple infections of individuals were detected at the same time within one service and within one building. Police officers with an essential function that is symptomatic and therefore absent due to disease to exclude contamination which allows for a resumption of rapid work are also part of this strategy. The essential functions and services according to the lines I have just set out are the staff of the services responsible for supporting the management and coordination of police operations, then the staff of the communication and information services, such as the emergency centre, dispatching and non-dispatching (?), the staff of the services responsible for emergency intervention and maintenance of the COVID measures, as well as the staff of the services responsible for protecting critical infrastructure, and the staff of the administrative, IT and logistics services and HR services, strictly necessary to support the operation of the aforementioned services. Finally, the staff of the services as provided in the business continuity plans. It is important that testing is carried out within the current structures, spread throughout the territory, with which final testing agreements were also made, because of the availability, knowledge of testing and the proximity of a lab. Upon notification, the official of the service shall provide the necessary information to the occupational physician, who may prescribe the PCR test through the Federal Platform and make the necessary arrangements. The work doctor shall then refer the staff member to the nearest test centre, where it is identified by the service card. The test results are delivered to the employee and the occupational health service in a simple manner. The occupational physician may examine and follow up the test results on the basis of the staff member's data. The doctor shall immediately inform the person responsible for the service in order to take the necessary measures concerning the organisation of the service. Mrs Taquin, I would like to point out that during the first wave, the Crisis Centre has already carried out – at the request of the Federal Coordinating Committee (COFECO) – an exercise to identify essential and critical jobs that should not be affected by crisis management. The police services are part of it. And because: they play an essential role in monitoring the implementation of a large number of measures in the fight against the spread of the virus. The need to give priority to testing the operational personnel of the rescue services – firefighters and civil protection – is essential to ensure their continuity. For the time being, the general rule is that persons who have had close contact with someone who has been tested positive for VOCID-19, but who have no symptoms, must be quarantined for 10 days – without testing. The Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health decided that this rule would no longer apply to certain occupational groups. Emergency services, such as firefighters and civil protection, are included in the list of groups eligible for a priority test. They can be tested first on the fifth day after close contact with a person tested positive for VOCID-19. As you can see, all the necessary steps to test essential services within the integrated police have been taken. Their follow-up is carried out on a daily basis. Where appropriate, they shall be adapted and corrected in order to ensure continuity. To this end, business continuity plans for all integrated police management units have been developed and are activated, if necessary. Mrs Matz, the situation of the integrated police force on 6 November is as follows. As I have already explained, there are 1,326 employees absent, of whom 770 are ill and 556 are quarantined. The rates of ill police officers per component are as follows: 7.67% for the integrated police and 6.72% for the federal police. Again, during the first wave, the Crisis Centre has already carried out an exercise to identify essential and critical occupations. Neither the federal police nor the local police have purchased tests. The testing strategy is that the staff member who has maintained close contact must be tested. We send staff to a centre where they receive a PCR test. The additional measures planned and already applied are: wearing masks, gloves, protective goggles and facial screens, using soaps and hydro-alcoholic gels, combining all these measures, VOCID-19 kits including markers, gloves, over-shoes, FFP2 masks, protective combinations, gels and garbage bags. These additional measures include plexiglas panels, awareness posters and service notes, wall and floor markings, reminders of barrier gestures, and disinfection of the material used. Mrs Ingels, compliance with the measure is primarily an individual responsibility of each citizen. Nevertheless, together with the Minister of Justice, I have asked the police to strictly enforce the following measures: compulsory oral masking, the closure of the catering industry, the prohibition of cooperation and curfew. In particular, increased attention is called for to be paid to the duty of mouth masks on public transport and on the metro. However, the control of the quarantine is not the responsibility of the police. She has no legal basis for this either. The police authorities may at most establish that the person concerned is in breach of regional rules by failing to comply with the order of the specialised medical staff. The competent posts may request the assistance of the police forces when they may be confronted with threats or violence. A risk analysis of biological agents was prepared for the integrated police in the field of well-being at work and consulted with trade unions. Police officers must respect the necessary preventive measures in the performance of their duties. I am thinking here of the use of surgical or artisan masks and the application of generally applicable distance and hygiene rules. Policemen are also regularly reminded through internal communication of the need to respect these measures. For the day-to-day performance of their duties, police officers have the surgical masks, safety goggles, face screens, masks and possibly a bandana. In the case of interventions with infected citizens, for example in the case of prisoner transports, they have adapted materials such as the FFP2 masks. In police vehicles alcohol gels and intervention kits were also made available. In the past 14 days, from 26 October to 8 November, Mrs Goethals was registered by the police services in the Brussels-Capital Region 3,471 infringements of measures in the fight against COVID-19. The figures you mentioned are therefore very out of date. During the period from 12 to 25 October, there were 1,782 registrations of covidin breaches. However, I would like to point out that these figures can still be changed because not all the minutes have yet been delivered to the police court. The increase is largely due to more observed infringements of the mouth mask obligation or curfew, which does not always mean that more infringements have been committed, because enforcement is a form of fetch crime. The more one seeks, the more facts one will find. The more checks are carried out, the more infringements can be detected. Because of the pressure we have put on the police to make real priority of compliance with the measures, these findings have also increased. In addition, a tightening of the measures leads to more restrictions and more enforcement and consequently more registrations of infringements of the COOVID measures. As regards your question about a possible increase in capacity in the Brussels police zones, I am told that the Brussels police zones and the Brussels DirCo have, in consultation, strengthened supervision. Mr Senesael, illegal holidays are not recorded sensu stricto in the General National Data Bank. In fact, in the police nomenclature, they may appear under the term "prohibition of assembly". Therefore, you will understand that it is not possible, on the basis of available information, to determine the exact number of illegal festivals. During the weekend of 17 and 18 October 2020, 587 incidents of non-compliance with the assembly ban were recorded. In the week of October 19-25, 1,150 recordings were recorded. In the following week, 1,589 non-compliance offences were recorded. In general, VOCID-19 offences are regularly monitored within the integrated police services. In particular, and depending on the situation, each area shall take the necessary measures to manage compliance with the measures in the context of the management of the health crisis and the various operational priorities in accordance with available resources. Mrs Van Peel, I can assure you that police victim treatment as a basic functionality remains guaranteed, including in this epidemic context. In other words, this is confirmed in and through the operational directive of 27 March of the Covid-19 Task Force of the Integrated Police. This implies that all police areas, the coordination and support directories and the first-line directorates of the General Executive Board of the Federal Police must ensure this basic functionality in their field. The modalities for this are clear. The police forces are tasked with welcoming and treating citizens in a respectful manner. They should, in the first instance, have due care and attention to urgent and/or serious special forms of victimisation and/or complaints with a risk to the physical integrity of persons. If specific support is needed, the trained police victims provide assistance. Particular attention is urgently needed for the most vulnerable and disadvantaged groups, including children, the elderly, victims of intra-family violence, and minors in a worrying educational situation. In addition, the College of Attorneys General COL15/2020 issued in June. This generalises the use of a first-line risk assessment tool on partner violence by the police forces and the public prosecutors. There too, the objective is clear. In case of very alarming risk factors, not only will the parquet be immediately informed, but the magistrate will also respond quickly and adequately to ensure the safety of the victim and the people in his or her environment. The aim draws particular attention to situations involving children. Finally, I would like to stress that, in situations of intra-family violence, the chain-based work, in which cooperation with aid organisations and justice is the guiding principle, is and remains absolutely essential. Collègue Matz, the approach to combating domestic violence in this period of the VOCID-19 is broad as it includes prevention, response, repression and follow-up measures in the security chain. It therefore involves several actors at local, regional and federal level. I would therefore like to make it clear that I will confine myself to measures that fall within my competence. The period of VOCID-19 highlights the importance of the problem of domestic violence and violence between partners. It also highlights the need for a coordinated, multidisciplinary and integrated approach of different sectors in police services. In this context, various initiatives have been taken recently. First, I am thinking in particular of the Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights, which covers measures of prevention, protection, prosecution and integrated policy to combat violence against women in times of confinement. The work of the ICD focuses on the themes that require strong coordination between the federal state and the federated entities. Secondly, the draft federal action plan to combat gender-based violence and domestic violence following the second wave of the VOCID-19 aims to initiate new measures, some of which concern the interior, justice and the police. This work continues to take place within the overall framework set by the ICD. Thirdly, there is our country's reaction to the report published on 21 September by GREVIO on legislative and other measures giving effect to the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Istanbul Convention. Fourthly, preparations are under way for new plans, including the national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence and the national security plan for the integrated police. I would now like to refer more specifically to your questions. With regard to the implementation of the three resolutions adopted in Parliament and the Senate, the recommendations contained in the three resolutions adopted have been considered and taken into account in the development of the action plans I have just mentioned. Some of them are already deployed in the field. Others take more time. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men monitors and coordinates the measures and practices implemented by our country during this period of the VOCID-19. In this context, for the remainder, I invite you to address Mrs Sarah Schlitz, the Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity. A scoreboard is updated at this level in order to be able to monitor the development of the various measures in this respect. With regard to police-level solutions to assist victims in combating domestic violence, the police had fully cooperated with the various working groups established in that area. The first guidelines set out on 27 March 2020 by the VOCID-19 task force set up within the Integrated Police were specifically on victim assistance, including vulnerable target groups. These guidelines are still in force. I would like to highlight a number of actions that should make a difference during this period of crisis. These measures cover both the internal functioning of the police and the best partnerships with actors on the ground. First, there are measures to increase the proportion of victims to report facts by making services more accessible, including in a more digital way, for example through contacts and collaborations between help lines, such as hotlines and police and relief services in the field, but also through the establishment of a specific alert mechanism through a partnership with pharmaceutical companies. A public awareness campaign is also planned by the federated entities through posters. Secondly, there is awareness-raising among police officers through two important recent initiatives. On 23 October 2020, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men organized an online seminar at which, among other things, the models of centres for the management of sexual violence (CPVS) and data on the functioning of the CPVS and good practices were presented. Through the Federal Police, the Standing Committee on Local Police and the police networks, field police officers were encouraged to participate. On October 29, 2020, the Public Prosecutor's Office organized, in collaboration with the same Institute, a web conference to present the circular COL 15/2020 - Risk Assessment Tool. The coming into force of this COL is scheduled for January 1, 2021. At least 80 police officers took part. The aim is to disseminate this webinar even more widely to police areas through online training modules. As part of the multidisciplinary assistance and follow-up of victims, police assistance to victims is provided by police officers with all the necessary skills. The police have, moreover, engaged in a strong partnership with the Family Justice Centers, CPVS (Centres for the Care of Victims of Sexual Violence), etc. The multidisciplinary approach is also focused on perpetrators of violence, in order to adequately sanction their unacceptable behaviour, but also to avoid recurrence. Finally, it is clear that domestic violence is a priority for the police and the Home SPF. This theme will also be included in my political orientation statement 2021-2024 and in my general policy note 2021. Police assistance is an integral part of police processes. In order to ensure better care for victims, the police approach is part of this multidisciplinary framework and must meet two objectives: to reduce the threshold from which a victim takes a step to seek help and to provide a more qualitative professional approach to this problem, with a view to putting an end to this violence. Mrs Buyst and Mr Moyaers - who may already be able to hear us -, during the months of July, August and September, the police kept tighter supervision of driving under the influence of alcohol. A total of 119 813 tests were carried out. Of these, 5,146 drivers were found to be under the influence. In 1,390 cases, the result of the breath analysis was equivalent to an alcohol content in the blood from 0.5 to 0.8 promille and in 3,756 cases with an alcohol content in the blood of 0.8 promille and more. BOB is celebrating its 25th birthday this year. A campaign is therefore foreseen to take place from 27 November 2020 until 25 January 2021. The COOVID-19 protocol will be applied, as will the use of mouth masks and disposable gloves and the respect of hygiene measures, social distancing, etc. The number of drivers checked simultaneously shall be determined taking into account the available space at the checkpoints. The use of the sampling is not recommended when these devices cannot be used coronaproof. The appliances are systematically disinfected, which will of course have an impact on the number of drivers that can be checked during a given time frame. The police will therefore have to be more selective, with more attention being focused, but not exclusively, on drivers showing signs of alcohol consumption. The Federal Road Police will be fully and safely committed to the PDO controls. As has been said, given the particular circumstances and measures taken, a check may take more time. The local police confirmed their commitment to the 2021 campaign through the Standing Commission. Depending on possible new and additional safety requirements, it will further evaluate its commitment. It goes without saying that the intentions and commitments in this unprecedented crisis period are entirely dependent on the additional security requirements. As I indicated in the ministerial letter GPI 94bis on the guidelines for combating the virus, the evolution of the pandemic requires us to take rigorous and firm action. However, the success of these federal measures, and hence the overcoming of this pandemic, depends heavily on their sustained and intertwined enforcement by, inter alia, the two components of the integrated police. Since the beginning of this sanitary crisis, the police have been continuously carrying out this task. For the coming period, we urge the respective police officers to have a very visible police presence in the street image in order to maintain the measures to combat the coronavirus. Dear members of the committee, some of your questions deal with the legality and constitutionality of the urgent federal corona measures. I will give you a combined answer. The urgent federal corona measures are being implemented and adapted after consultation within the government, but also with the representatives of the federated entities, as you know. Special attention will be paid to expert opinions such as those of Celeval and the recommendations of the corona commissioners. In fact, it is always the intention to introduce only necessary and proportionate measures. Any person, entity or undertaking may bring an action before the President of the Court of First Instance, the ordinary judge or the Council of State if he or she considers that he or she is wrongly harmed by the urgent federal corona measures. As regards the most recent closure of the catering industry, several legal procedures have indeed been initiated. The statements that have already been made in this connection, even at the end of last week, have not led to any finding of illegality or unconstitutionality, quite the contrary. The proportionality of the measures should be assessed in the light of the sanitary and epidemiological situation in the country. In particular, the closure of the catering industry was the subject of three judgments of the Council of State delivered at a general meeting of the Council of State. That's rather extraordinary. Those judgments date from 28 and 30 October. In those judgments, the General Assembly of the Council of State held that the closure of the catering industry was not disproportionate, given the general interest objectives, the safeguarding of public safety and health and the reduction of the overload on hospitals. I will not read from those judgments of the Council of State. They can of course be found on the website of the Council of State. It was considered that it is a test of proper and careful action, taking into account the precautionary principle, that the federal government should follow the situation and take measures that are not disproportionate. With regard to the judgement of the Hainaut Police Court (Charleroi Division), the issues relating to the appeal procedure fall within the competence of my colleague from Justice. It is the Public Prosecutor's Office that develops the appeal arguments. I can therefore only refer to this procedure for follow-up. I would point out here that I am not panicked about the judgments that are now known. In general, I can tell you that on Friday, 13 March, Belgium entered the federal phase of crisis management by adopting the ministerial decree of 13 March on the initiation of the federal phase concerning the coordination and management of the VOCID-19 coronavirus crisis. This federal phase was initiated and implemented in accordance with the Royal Decree of 31 January 2003 establishing the emergency plan for events and crisis situations requiring coordination or management at the national level and the Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 on emergency planning and emergency management at the municipal and provincial level and on the role of mayors and provincial governors in the event of events and crisis situations requiring coordination or management at the national level. Successive ministerial orders with emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus are part of this federal crisis management phase. These ministerial decrees have as their legal basis article 4 of the Civil Protection Act of 31 December 1963. Articles 11 and 42 of the Police Function Act of 5 August 1992 and articles 181, 182 and 187 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. I won't read all these articles here, you know where to find them. Each of these provisions empowers the Minister of the Interior to take such measures as he considers necessary for the protection of the population, in particular in the context of disorder to public order, including public health, in this case the danger resulting from the spread of coronavirus. Article 182 of the Civil Security Act also allows the Minister of the Interior to prohibit, and therefore for the most part to restrict, without completely prohibiting the movement of the population in the event of dangerous circumstances and with a view to ensuring its protection. The measures adopted must be considered as follows: Both as police measures within the meaning of the Police Function Act of 5 August 1992 and as measures within the meaning of sections 181, 182 of the Civil Security Act of 2007. The VOCID-19 pandemic faced by Belgium is a dangerous circumstance justifying measures to protect the population. The measures adopted are aimed at protecting the fundamental right to life and health of the population. The management of this health crisis requires a rapid and organised response adapted to rapidly changing health and epidemiological conditions. In the Umami judgment of 30 October of the Council of State, the Council of State, in a general meeting, held that the legal bases, as stated, were valid. Furthermore, the General Assembly of the Council of State stated in the Verhelst judgment of the same date that the criminalisation under Articles 182 and 187 of the 2007 Law complied with the legality principle laid down in Article 14 of the Constitution. In particular, the Council of State states, I quote: 'The legislator himself, at first sight, has sufficiently specified the purpose of the authorisation, the limits within which it was granted, and the conduct considered to be criminal'. The importance of this very clear case law of our highest administrative court, which has also spoken out in a general assembly, cannot be underestimated. On the other hand, I am not going to rule on specific criminal records that are pending before the court and for which I have already referred to the Minister of Justice. The legal basis of these federal urgent corona measures, and I have also taken note of this, is subject to academic discussions, which also resound in the media. With regard to the academics who believe or believe that a legal initiative should be taken, I welcome any constructive proposal. My cabinet and the Federal Administration of the Interior are already investigating whether we can modernise the Civil Security Act of 2007 by adding more detail to the case of the pandemic and epidemic, without questioning the current correct legal basis of the MBs, as confirmed by the Council of State. The principles currently being applied, such as the material justification and the test of the principles of necessity and proportionality, could be made more explicit, as well as more details on the type of measures that may be necessary in times of pandemic or epidemic. A number of more technical changes to harmonise the approach at federal, provincial and local level could also be considered. This exercise will be able to be embedded in a legislative initiative with a broader purpose. So we will undoubtedly be in touch on this. Mrs Ingels, my cabinet and the administration are constantly working on clarifying and optimising the rules, where necessary, in order to ensure that they meet the needs of the situation, taking into account the opinions of the experts, the questions received and so on. For the supply of alcoholic beverages it was very quickly clarified. Alcoholic beverages may be sold up to 20.00 hours for meals that are collected or delivered. After 8 p.m. no alcohol may be sold in any place. The night shops, department stores or catering establishments that still sell alcohol after 8 p.m. can indeed be punished. The police can detect these violations, but also several inspectors and inspectors now have the power to make findings, including the Economic Inspectorate. For Christmas markets it was necessary to take a position already. As with other events, preparation has started long before the construction. We already know that these Christmas markets and other winter events are difficult to take place responsibly in these circumstances. The chance that these could still continue is virtually non-existent. By recording this in the current MB, which is valid until 13 December, the organisers already have clarity about this. This will probably also be confirmed in the following MB's, obviously taking into account the expert opinion on this. The population, but especially the organisers, deserve clarity. Among other things, the Governor of Antwerp has already taken a decision on the prohibition of such activities until 31 January 2021. In the meantime, the provision on the Protocol for Honorary Services has been deleted. The collective exercise of worship services is currently prohibited, with the exception of marriages, funerals and the recording of worship services. In the case of marriages, only spouses, witnesses and servants may be present. At funerals, that's a maximum of 15 people today. Ten persons may be present at the admission of an honorary service. These services are not accessible to the public. The list of frequently asked questions, the FAQ, will be updated and distributed as soon as possible. This happens as soon as the Ministerial Decree itself is published. This can indeed sometimes take one or more days. However, in the meantime, specific questions are already being answered. I do not share Mr Van Lommel's view that there should be days to wait for clarification on essential shops. The conciliation committee met last Friday evening at 7 p.m. The ministerial decision was published at 10 a.m. on Sunday morning. That's a long 36 hours later. So that's not a day's wait. I hope that there will also be understanding of the difficult exercise and the precise writing that this involves. Mrs Bury, on visits to places in the immo sector, first of all, I would like to say that, according to the ministerial decision, visitors to places can still take place among professionals. We made the FAQ more explicit on that point. However, as you know, it is currently the intention and absolute necessity to reduce the risk of virus transmission. To this end, a number of measures have been agreed, as already discussed. Of course, they also have an impact on the immo sector, as unfortunately also on many other sectors. Part of the wider process is that we regularly evaluate the federal corona measures, to see where and to what extent they could be relaxed or strengthened. That evaluation is carried out in consultation within the government. You will understand that I cannot anticipate that. However, be assured that this will be done taking into account all the reports I receive from various sectors and that it is obviously not the intention to allow measures to run longer than necessary. However, we also know from experience after the first wave that we will have to have a great deal of discipline in order to maintain the measures for a while. Mr Van Lommel, as I have already pointed out, between the decision of principle which falls within the consultation committee on the orientation of federal measures and the issuing of the ministerial decision, and the usual communication, there is also a legal translation, and this is within the shortest possible time. This process requires great expertise and precision, but also flexibility on the part of the pen holders. It is logical that communication should only be possible once the legal translation process has been completed in order to avoid as much uncertainty as possible. Moreover, the need for quality regulation and the avoidance of false expectations among the right-holders as a result of premature communication is also central to this. The Ministerial Decision aims at a maximum harmonised playing field. I have already heard from the business community that this approach is being appreciated, in particular the avoidance of unequal treatment by equalising the sale of possible products. The Ministerial Decision lays down a regime for the provision of goods and services to the consumer. The annex only plays a role for the second, i.e. the services. The term 'essential goods' is referred to in the main part of the ministerial decision. Finally, as regards your question about the estimated economic costs of the current measure, I invite you to ask the Minister responsible for Economy, Mr Dermagne. I would go on slippery ground if I were to make my own statements. Ladies and gentlemen, since the start of the covid crisis, nuclear safety and the security of nuclear installations in Belgium have been closely monitored by the nuclear safety authority. This is done through regular and periodic consultation that takes place digitally and/or by telephone between the safety authority and the operator. Thanks to these consultations, the safety authority is constantly kept informed of the state of play, the evolution of the situation and the likely difficulties, in accordance with the business continuity plans of both nuclear power stations. It discusses what additional measures can be envisaged, planned and implemented in order to control the situation. Special attention will be paid to personnel performing so-called critical safety functions, such as the plant crews operating the reactors and radiation protection agents. A minimum number of these functions must always be physically present on the site in order to ensure safe operation of the reactors. The security of the site is also regularly monitored for the availability of sufficient security personnel. As regards the latest developments, and I will give you the state of play on 4 November, as a result of the covid crisis, the following can be reported. A total of 120 persons were tested positively in Objective from March to the beginning of November, of which 44 were employed by the operator and 76 were subcontractors. In Tihange 127 people were tested positively during the same period, of which 82 employees and 45 subcontractors. The largest number of these infections took place during the month of October. In response to the sharp increase in recent weeks, the operator has again strengthened the covid measures. Telework is mandatory for non-critical functions. According to the data of 4 November, more than 50% of the staff on both sites operate from home. There are less than 500 own staff and less than 1,000 subcontractors per site. As far as other preventive measures are concerned, the usual rules are of course still mandatory. The town's layout and the ventilation of refectories, changing rooms, showers and other workplaces have been adapted and strengthened. Steward coronas are permanently present in the field to raise awareness and inform staff and subcontractors. It is important to note that the measures on the site are valid for both staff and subcontractors. These preventive measures have proven to be effective, as most of the contamination currently originates outside the Doel and Tihange sites. In addition, non-essential training has been postponed and the rules on wearing masks have been considerably strengthened during the meetings. With regard to test measurements and quarantines at both the Doel and Tihange sites, staff can be tested according to internal procedures at each site. These are PCR, serological and salivary tests. Temperature measurements, automatic and anonymous scans take place on a voluntary basis at the entrance to the Tihange site. It can be extended to the Doel site. The quarantine regime is organized according to the guidelines established by Sciensano. Preventive quarantines are also required to preserve critical functions. In conclusion, AFCN would like to point out that, for the time being, despite the VOCID crisis, no significant delays in planned work on nuclear reactors have been reported. The AFCN is also of the view that the operator continues to manage the situation well and that sufficient personnel, especially with respect to critical functions, were present at the site to continue to ensure the safety and security of the facilities. With regard to the management of a nuclear incident, two exercises experimenting with the management of a nuclear incident, in the current health context, were successfully conducted in September and October. They were used to test the mobilization of the nuclear assessment cell, Celeval, and the operator by maintaining the health rules in force. The work between them was organized by videoconference as well as the discussions between the Federal Coordinating Committee, whose mobilization was simulated within the National Crisis Centre and Celeval. With regard to hospital capacity, they are constantly monitored during the management of the health crisis. This would therefore be taken into account for the distribution of patients at the various hospital sites capable of taking care of an irradiated patient, should a nuclear accident occur. Nuclear sites also have agreements with hospital services capable of caring for an irradiated, contaminated or injured patient. Concerning the additional measures, it should be noted that the measures taken in the hospital environment for the management of a potentially severely irradiated, contaminated or injured individual are more restrictive in terms of contact than for an individual who has contracted VOCID-19. With regard to other relief services, they would carry out their missions by respecting, to the extent possible, social distancing and by using the appropriate individual means of protection. However, should a nuclear emergency occur in the current context, the provisions of the nuclear and radiological emergency plan would remain fully in force. The various authorities would use all possible means to manage the combination of two emergency situations and to protect the population, the food chain and the environment from the adverse consequences of these situations. If the negative consequences of the nuclear accident in this specific situation were to be considered more serious than the negative consequences that VOCID-19 may have, the measures against VOCID-19 would be subject to protective measures in the context of a nuclear accident. The management of the current crisis will be evaluated by the Crisis Centre. Lessons to be incorporated into emergency crisis management planning will be learned and discussed during the preparation of the five-year review of the nuclear emergency plan. Mrs Cornet, it is above all important to point out that nuclear safety is a national competence for which each national safety authority is responsible. In the case of France, this is the Nuclear Safety Authority. In Belgium, the National Crisis Centre coordinates the national nuclear emergency plan for Belgian territory in good intelligence with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. The AFCN maintains good contacts with the ASN in France and the ASN regularly informs it of ongoing cases as well as of events that may have an impact on the safety of French nuclear installations close to our borders. With regard to the specific case you mention, AFCN has not been informed directly and considers that the security of the facilities is always ensured. In particular, with regard to the crisis related to VOCID-19, it is important to point out that AFCN is actively involved at the international and bilateral levels, and in particular with neighbouring countries, in the exchange of good practices in the management of this crisis. All of the experiences gained during this crisis, both at the international and national levels, for nuclear safety or contingency plans, will enable AFCN to continue to improve and adapt procedures in order to be as well prepared as possible for future unforeseen events, such as pandemics. Concern for improvement remains a top priority for the Agency. As the Director General, Frank Hardeman, made clear in the Sub-Committee on Nuclear Safety of 5 May 2020, the Royal Decree of 1 March 2018 establishing the nuclear and radiological emergency plan for Belgian territory currently makes no mention of a common management of a pandemic and a nuclear incident. This does not prevent the Agency and its partners from continuing to carry out their mission during the current VOCID crisis, i.e. ensuring that the population, workers and the environment are protected from the risks of ionizing radiation in all circumstances. To this end, during September and October, the Crisis Centre organized two exercises of the Nuclear and Radiological Emergency Plan with AFCN and in collaboration with nuclear facility operators. The purpose of these exercises was to improve crisis management, taking into account the particular context of the VOCID crisis. The national nuclear emergency plan coordinated by the Crisis Centre sets out the guiding principles for crisis preparedness and management of nuclear and radiological emergencies. In the context of integrated crisis management, taking into account the principle of unity of command, this contingency plan defines the organisation of crisis and the precise role of all actors involved at different levels in this organisation and the different crisis cells that meet. The following factors, which will have an impact on crisis management, are taken into account interactively: technical radiological aspects, operational aspects, socio-economic aspects, communication to the population and international cooperation, both with neighbouring countries and with international bodies such as the European Commission and IAEA. In emergency preparedness, this coordination includes constructive cooperation with key partners of the Crisis Centre, such as AFCN, federal and federal departments, governors and mayors, operational disciplines on the ground, counterparts in neighbouring countries and international organizations. Should a nuclear emergency occur in the current context, the provisions of the PUN would remain fully in force, as well as the protocols for collaboration with France, both at the national level and between the Governor of Namur and the Prefect of the Ardennes. The various authorities would use all possible means to manage the combination of two emergency situations, which obviously makes crisis management very difficult, and to protect the population, the food chain and the environment in the best possible way against the adverse consequences of this situation. As foreseen by the PUN, in the event of a radiological incident in the Chooz nuclear power plant which leads to an offsite response by the French authorities, the PUN is activated after consultation with AFCN, the Crisis Centre and the Minister of the Interior. The Belgian authorities are notified of an incident at federal and local level via the French counterparts. Following the alert, national and local authorities are mobilised in accordance with the PUN and cooperation is established between the cross-border counterpart bodies for the assessment of the technical and radiological situation, decision-making, communication and implementation of protection actions on the ground. Mr Thiébaut, following the debate in 2019 in the Committee of the Interior on civil security reform, a motion for a resolution on civil protection reform was adopted on 30 June 2020. This resolution calls on the federal government to reconsider the choice of locations for special civil protection units, taking into account the total cost of investments, including construction of a new building and/or the purchase of land. The selection will also take into account the condition of the former barracks, provided that they have not been permanently assigned to other missions. It will also be useful to review, if necessary, the barracks that have been abandoned to see if they could not serve as outposts. I am therefore committed to carrying out this reflection in consultation with my administration and all the partners involved in this issue. Dear Mr. Thiébaut, I have seen and noted that, given the current context of the VOCID-19 pandemic, many collaborators are fully involved in managing this crisis and therefore the time allocated to such an analytical approach is not currently guaranteed. However, where circumstances permit, this analysis will be conducted. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is my answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for the detailed answer. I shall now turn to the replies and use the same order as for the original questioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u24	Mr President, you may, first of all, ask my question No. To turn 55009298C into a written question, since the Minister has already answered part of a question from Mrs Matz. So you can turn that question into a written question. That'll be double-up. Madam Minister, in response to your reply I would like to say that, if I have listened carefully and followed carefully, Madam Minister, you are going very quickly and I do not know whether the interpreters have been able to follow anything, I have not heard any new measures specifically aimed at the problems I have raised. That is unfortunate, because after the first lockdown, the aid workers together called on the two governments at the different levels specifically in case of a second lockdown not to forget these children and those involved again. Initiatives have been taken in Flanders. I have a feeling that the federal link in this matter is missing, except in the area of what already existed, but in my view does not always work perfectly. Madam Minister, at a later date this issue will perhaps be dealt with in greater depth. For the time being, therefore, I would like to thank you for your reply. I hope, however, that next time I will be able to follow you better and that your words will be less rattled and more passionate. That's a personal thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u25	Madam Minister, before I go into your answers in concrete terms, it is appropriate that I express my deep appreciation for the efforts made by our police services. Their tasks have increased enormously as a result of the epidemic, witnessing the many questions and the detailed answers you have given. They too often have to deal with out-of-date colleagues, which is certainly not evident for their work volumes. The situation is therefore complex and the work on the ground is difficult. I can therefore imagine that it is not obvious to set priorities, but I asked my question, above all, not to lose sight of road safety. During the first lockdown, it was found that the number of accidents either decreased or increased because drivers were encouraged to drive faster and to take more risks due to the lower number of cars and the less frequent checks on the road. We really do not want that again. I am therefore pleased that the BOB campaign, which is celebrating its 25th anniversary, will continue so that we can keep the focus on road safety and reduce the number of road fatalities. Vision Zero is the practice of all of us. Together with you, I will continue to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I am free to put together my questions about the catering industry and the real estate agents in my reply. At the moment, I am also following the discussion of the Minister of Justice's policy paper. I understand that there is still time for this in this committee because no policy paper has yet been submitted, but the Committee on Justice is already discussing the policy paper. As far as the catering industry is concerned, a number of things have been moved since my question was submitted. The Council of State has made it clear in a ruling that the measures taken are indeed proportionate and necessary. I am also pleased that you yourself will take a legal initiative to clarify the necessity and proportionality of the pandemic. I look forward to working with you on that. With regard to real estate agents, I am very pleased with your clarification that a visit by a professional is possible. That was not clear at first and the sector was therefore not well aware of what to do. It is a good thing that clarification has been made. (...) Excuse me, my little one's coming in. That's a result of homework and the extended autumn vacation. Madam Secretary, so far my reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u27	Thank you, Mrs. and Mother Bury.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, particularly the answer to a potential return of Emergency Preparedness to Ghlin. You are telling me that the services are not in a position to make an estimate of the emergency preparedness situation at this time. I can hear it. This will allow me to come back in a few weeks with the same question to ask you the same thing. Count on me to rest the question until I get a detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answers. You recalled the legal basis on which the various decrees are based and the recent jurisprudence of the Council of State. The latter case-law is the answer of the constitutionalists to which I referred, since they consider that the legal basis of the 25 decrees is insufficient. They propose a critical response to these last decisions of the Council of State. Apart from the question of legal certainty as such, I wanted to stress another dimension which is that of accession to the measures. I would like to quote a constitutionalist who, two weeks ago, regretted in Le Soir that the government has been depriving itself of parliamentary deliberation since the beginning of the VOCID-19 crisis. She says: "Paradoxically, as it is conducted in the name of science, public decision is singularly lacking in objectivation for citizens. How to join without understanding and how to obey without joining? By systematically bypassing our assemblies, the state deprives itself of the privileged channel, in representative democracy, to circulate information, carry away conviction and legitimize decisions to citizens. In doing so, the state prefers submission and punishment to the detriment of understanding and adherence." Minister, I also suggest that you look north. While action by the Dutch government has so far been subject to emergency orders, at the end of October the two chambers of the Netherlands passed a Corona law which should form the legal basis for the next measures to combat coronavirus in our neighbours. Why don't you follow their lead? Unfortunately, we are far from having emerged from the coronavirus crisis and it is not too late to take legislative initiatives in this regard. I really invite you to rely on Parliament; we are available to help, not only to lay down the necessary legal measures, but also to create this accession, which is so crucial and which, for the time being, is partly eluded from us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u30	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answers. You have also replied very comprehensively to detailed questions. I like that chapeau. Your predecessor had quickly broken the world record reading, but you shouldn't be underdoing it. Maybe that's up to us, because we've asked a lot of questions. Perhaps we should also review the formula, because all the issues on the agenda today are worth a real debate. It's too bad we have to do this this way. I do not know what colleagues think of this, but I would like to look at it again, because I would really like to have a debate with you. Then we don't need those quick reading sessions and our translators also have more time. I look forward to the opening you made in viewing the Civil Security Act of 2007. I had hoped that we could have done something with the barometer and the pedestal of measures at a level. I understand that barometer isn't so obvious. I'm glad you're looking for another solution. I look forward to that very much. I would like to have a debate on this. That's for next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u31	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the up-to-date figures of 6 November on the breakdown of police personnel. You have also made arrangements to meet the worst needs internally. However, I still believe that our country has taken far too long to order the rapid tests. This should have been done much earlier, especially for essential services such as the police and the security services. In an article dated 10 October, I read that the Netherlands had already ordered 2 million rapid tests, France 5 million and Germany 9 million. Belgium had then ordered 0 quick tests. I think that's a missed opportunity. We were awfully late, but I'm glad they're here now and that you're doing everything you can to meet the worst needs in our police and security services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u32	Minister, thank you for these extremely detailed answers. With regard to the issue of domestic violence during the confinement period, you have brought a number of interesting elements. It is true that, excuse me, a little with the past where we had only a vague idea of what could possibly be done. It is true that, if this remains for the time being relative to the level of intentions, it is in any case felt that a dynamic is being created at the level of government. I have also not missed - I will wait for his answer when it is scheduled - to question the Secretary of State, Mrs Schlitz, and your colleague from the Justice Department on this issue of violence, since we know that there are several aspects. And, in my view, the difficulty in combating violence is that it is divided not only between different ministries at the federal level, but also within the competence of the federated entities. On the other hand, I did not hear you on a point which I believe is essential and which was voted on in the resolutions, namely to encourage - and a little more than that - the police areas to systematically resume contact with the victims within three months of the complaint, in order to be able to simply worry about their condition, and also to contact the authors, potential perpetrators, alleged perpetrators, in order to maintain some pressure on them. It is known that this is an initiative that dates from the first confinement, particularly in the Brussels police area, and has been relatively successful. This point, you should be able to implement it via a circular. I am very pleased to hear that there is also a risk circular that will come into effect in early January 2021. It would indeed be time to have this indispensable tool. On my second question about the cases of VOCID-19 in the police, you have brought me all the necessary elements. You mentioned a figure of about 3% absent staff - either because it is contaminated or because it is in quarantine. You measure the extent of this concern within the police services, choosing a variety of alternatives. The question of recruitment will not be avoided either - this will probably be included in your policy note. It is well known that the police are working on a tight flow. As soon as 3% of its staff are removed, who must carry out complementary tasks such as monitoring the application of containment rules, a police force is completely out of date. It was already before the crisis of the VOCID-19; it is more so now. Moreover, with the terrorist threat to other European states, which we are also concerned about, activity is becoming more than tense. For these reasons, I hope that you will be able to devote yourself very quickly to the question of staff recruitment, since it is a serious failure, particularly because the previous government has drastically reduced the number of staff. However, we cannot make up for this delay. In my view, this issue remains one of the most important in terms of police services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u33	Minister, thank you for the answers. Some of my questions remained unanswered or unspecified about testing. I asked you, in particular, whether your request to include police officers in the priority testing should be accepted by the Conference or simply by the federal Minister of Health and by what decision-making process. I would remind you that it took ten days for your request to be effective. Is there a possibility to monitor the situation of asymptomatics as part of a priority testing for police officers? How many priority tests have been conducted in these areas (police, firefighters, Civil Protection) since the ICD's decision to integrate them? Are these areas exempted from quarantine by the ICD? I also stress the urgent issue of the NAPAP 2021 measure. With regard to the case law of the ministerial decree and respect for health measures and the minutes, if your answers are reassuring, the courts seem to receive more and more arguments using the jurisprudence of the court of Charleroi. Furthermore, if you are not concerned, it would be necessary to make an official communication to the local police directorates because, at this level, there is a concern and, in any case, questioning. It is important, beyond the very legitimate announcements, that it be followed up quickly and effectively. Recidivists to the VOCID-19 measures sit down to respect the measures and toy our police officers who deserve full respect but also that the judicial follow-up confirms their action on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer to the many questions. I am extremely pleased that a huge catch-up has been made in the Brussels-Capital Region. I hope, however, that this stricter enforcement can be maintained and that the public prosecutors will follow. I regret, however, that quite a lot of time has passed between sensitisation and stricter enforcement. Coming from the medical world, all I can tell you is that it's clear that soft healers make stinking wounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u35	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I note with great satisfaction that you give priority to security, which is obviously an excellent thing. For me, security requires the presence of not only sufficient personnel but also properly trained personnel. I therefore invite you to pay particular attention to subcontractors, in particular. You said that the plan did not mention the joint management capacity of a pandemic and a nuclear incident, which implies that priorities should then be set, and that is quite worrying. Therefore, the word word in my opinion should be anticipation, exactly the opposite of what we are in a position to do, with a health crisis on our arms, and I understand that it makes things very difficult. I really insist on the dialogue that you have established and that you can have with the French authorities, so that you can be informed. I was surprised to hear that the Federal Nuclear Control Agency had not been informed of the cluster in Chooz, but I understand that you consider security to be assured, in Chooz as elsewhere. Finally, we know very well that nuclear power plants are a technology of the past that requires very specific safety and safety management. In addition, we are currently facing a pandemic that further complicates the situation. I therefore call for more dialogue so that every citizen can live in a sense of real security. Once the plants are closed, we will have a less public safety problem to manage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. When I heard about you, it seemed like it was all about communicating about the new lockdown to the entrepreneurs. However, I do not agree with your answer. You said that the ministerial decision was published on Sunday morning. Still, there was a lot of uncertainty. You could have communicated perfectly with the government on Friday night what the essential and non-essential sectors were. I'll give you an example that says everything, Madam Secretary. The flower shops had started selling out their stock on Saturday for fear of having to throw everything in the garbage can, and then on Sunday they were allowed to remain open. That one example says everything as it is. For the rest, I am somewhat dismayed at the fact that you say that you are unable to answer the estimated economic cost and that I have to ask that question to Minister Dermagne. This question was originally addressed to him. If the government passes this on to you, I assume you'll have to answer. If you like to play ping-pong, please do so in your spare time, but not in Parliament. I want a serious answer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u37	Is there another group that wishes to intervene? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u38	Minister, I don't know if it's like New Year's and if we have a month to welcome you and congratulate you on your new position. I may at any rate congratulate you. The first question I'm going to ask you is the increase in crossing the Channel of migrant boats. In recent weeks, rescue operations have increased. The French and British services have announced a record number of attempts to cross the Channel by migrant boats. On 19 August, the body of a 16-year-old Sudanese migrant was discovered in France on a beach on the coast of Opal, a tragedy that is not new since it was preceded by another one in Belgium in Zeebruges where a forty-year-old Iraqi man was found drowned under the same circumstances. Since August, the British government has commissioned a former military to make the Channel crossings impracticable. The British Home Office has announced its intention to stop the boats before they enter the territorial waters, planning to do so a collaboration with France. This announcement raises fears of a policy of pushbacks which, I would remind you, is not only dangerous for the lives of migrants but illegal from the point of view of international law. Minister, what about the situation in the Belgian part of the North Sea? Have migrant boats been intercepted in our territorial waters? If so, how many? Are these figures increasing compared to previous years? How do you evaluate the cooperation of the British and French rescue services? Are you planning to reinforce rescue capabilities in order to avoid a tragedy in Belgian and international waters? With regard to the UK project, has Belgium been asked to intensify its own controls at sea? If so, how does she plan to position herself? Are we going to favour repressive operations over rescue operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u39	Mr. Rigot, are you combining your two questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u40	Mr President, if it is right for you, it would be perfect. Minister, welcome to your Committee on the Interior. Congratulations on your new duties. I wish you the best in a function that will certainly not be simple. It is a regal ministry, an important ministry. We count on you to be attentive to the broad missions of your function. On the issue of transmigrants, I have a very specific first question. We heard during the hearings on forced repatriation that there was currently an analysis of the status of Frontex escort agents. As you know, Frontex is the subject of quite severe criticism at European level and this analysis is therefore particularly interesting with regard to the return aspect of our asylum and immigration policy. Minister, could you tell us what is the status of this study and provide us with a timetable for its completion? Can you, as soon as it is available, communicate its content to Parliament? My second question is much closer to the question of my colleague Mr Moutquin. Four deaths, including two children: La Manche experienced, on Tuesday 27 October, its most serious migration tragedy after the shipwreck of a boat from France for the English coast, according to a still provisional assessment, bringing to seven the number of people who died in these waters in 2020. Minister, are we experiencing the same increase in the number of crossings of the English Channel and thus in the danger of families and children fleeing war and conflict zones? What are the numbers? (I know it's an encrypted question, and maybe you could send a written answer, which I would understand.) What are their nationalities? Is there a follow-up investigation to stop unscrupulous criminals who exploit vulnerable migrants, who are primarily victims of a situation, by offering them to cross the Channel, at their own risk, under inhumane conditions? Are the results of the ongoing investigations communicated to you? The NGO Save the Children called on the French and British governments to cooperate in providing "safe and legal roads for desperate families". Is there any consultation between the countries of the European Union faced with this situation? Are humanitarian operations carried out to save the shipwrecked? What is the British government putting in place to combat these crossings? Have you had any discussions with your British counterpart? The British Minister of the Interior wants to create a joint police unit to combat the smuggling of migrants. Is Belgium being asked to do so? Beyond the repressive aspects, what are the contacts and preventive measures taken against candidates for the crossing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u41	I would like to add my congratulations to the Minister. You shouldn't be under any stress, Madam Secretary. It is also my first question in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs. I'm also relatively new. I know some of the very distinguished gentlemen who surround you professionally and I am sure that will work out very well. The problem outlined by my fellow Members is of course also a point of attention, but I would like to talk specifically about the problems in Zeebrugge and the surrounding area. Of course, I know this environment very well as Brugesgeling. The problem of the transmigrants has been on the increase for years. Recently, however, there has been yet another wave of facts. On the weekend of 30 October, a few more facts took place. There have been house burglaries, house burglaries, e.g. to tap electricity, a break-in into a building, certain types of crime in shops, over and over again with a bust and so on. For example, on the images of security cameras it can be seen that this is not even covered. Madam Secretary, I think it's very nice that you've already been on the scene, along with the Secretary of State. I am sure that many sources on the ground will also have told you that a shift has taken place. It used to be many families, very often Syrians, consisting of a man, woman and children, who wanted to leave as quickly as possible and to get to England as quickly as possible. There was no threat or crime against them either. Those people were actually a little embarrassed sometimes, hiding very often. In recent months, a shift has been made towards a new phenomenon of single men. They're no longer families or families. They are very often single men, often of North African origin. There is an increasing incidence of aggression in relation to the situation in the past. Can you confirm that noted increase, which also reflects in fact, for Zeebrugge? The local police and the shipping police, who are of course present in Zeebrugge, are doing everything they can. Honor to their unrelenting bet. They work hard. They also work very well together. However, these police forces are also limited in their capabilities. That's why I'd like to hear from you whether you're planning extra troops, extra policemen on the premises. Mr President, I am about to finish. On social media, we increasingly see a hardening of the tone, a concern that I may share with many colleagues. In private groups on social media, violence is called for. Participants in these groups want to take the law into their own hands. I am bored with that, like many of my fellow Members, Mr Demon, I see that he has just joined the sitting. Madam Minister, perhaps some form of communication should be considered, e.g. a weekly bulletin reporting the weekly actions, the number of persons arrested and the concrete steps taken. Thus, there can be proactive communication towards that community. Finally, what do you think will be the impact of the Brexit? I assume you'll be in touch with your colleagues across the Channel. Do you share the thesis that the route via Zeebrugge will become less attractive, or do you see otherwise?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I too would like to congratulate you and congratulate you on your new position. The previous speakers have already outlined the problem of transmigration. That is why I am referring to the text of my question that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u43	Mr President, Minister, this is a problem that I have been concerned with for five years. The corona crisis has little impact on the number of transmigrants who want to cross our coasts to the United Kingdom. In the past large-scale control actions have been organised on highway parkings to track down transmigrants. However, these actions by the federal police are currently on hold because of the corona crisis. There were also some federal police people sent to the coastal zones, which we were always pleased with. I remember when Minister Jambon sent almost à la minute troops in the Chamber to Zeebrugge when it really burned there and got really violent. Despite the extra manpower, it remains mopping with the crane open for the people on the site. I have been there myself, and I have been able to see that. Recently, in Zeebrugge several attempts at burglary and burglary were made in homes and in boats in the marina and a car window was smashed in. Although not all transmigrants commit such crimes, and I would like to underline this, their presence creates a great sense of insecurity in the neighbourhood. Today, people of a different nationality are immigrants. Mr Pillen has just outlined this very well. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Are you aware of the ongoing problem of transmigration in Zeebrugge and our motorway parks? You have been in contact with the mayor, the governor, although in quarantine and the port community, which I have greatly appreciated. You are concerned about this problem, but do you have any figures? Will the existing measures taken by your predecessors in the context of the problem of migration be evaluated and reviewed? The previous Minister for the Interior and Security, Mr De Crem, and the current Flemish Minister for Mobility, Ms Peeters, organised five provincial consultations in September to reach a common approach to motorway parkings and the problem of transmigration. Are you planning actions again? Are there any new consultations planned? The ministerial letter of 27 January 1998 is one of my stickhorses. In human terms, it means that someone arrested for transmigration, in Zeebrugge or anywhere else, can only be held for 24 hours. Then one gets out again, on which one can be arrested again. I hear from our policemen and federal police officers that they can be arrested up to seven or eight times. A solution must be found for this. It is difficult to place them in closed centres, but do you agree with me that we will have to deal with this problem? Maybe there should be another letter, so that people who are repeatedly arrested are not released after 24 hours. It is mopping with the tap open and there lies the key for a solution. Do you agree with me on that? Do you think that there should be contacts with other areas on our coasts so that joint agreements can be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u44	I've been very flexible, Mr. Demon. You have used twice your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u45	I apologise for that, Mr President. Bruges is a little slower.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u46	Someone else is asking for the floor. [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u47	You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u48	Mr Moutquin, the crossing of the canal by small boats to enter the United Kingdom illegally is a phenomenon that occurs at first instance in France. Belgium is only marginally involved in this problem. The interventions we are facing concern mainly small boats from France which have drifted to our territorial waters. Only a few cases of actual departures from the Belgian coast are known. When a small boat is reported or intercepted in our waters, assistance is always a priority and transmigrants are saved from their distress as quickly as possible. The search and rescue and drenkelingen op zee procedure is launched. All the resources available to Coast Guard partners – defence, shipping police, customs, rescue services – are deployed and the operation is coordinated by the Maritime Rescue and Coordination Centre. In case of resistance or opposition, the navigating police, through the administrative police officer SPN Côtes, contact the governor – the administrative authority at sea – whose instructions are followed. Refugee care takes place on the basis of the responsibilities laid down in European regulations. The transmigrants cross our country to reach the French and Belgian coastal regions and risk crossing either by small boats or by climbing on trucks, mainly via Zeebrugge. In general, the first priority of our police is to dismantle the networks of smugglers. There is close cooperation, both at strategic and operational level, with the French and British security authorities and services. A number of agreements have still recently been concluded with the British Ministry of the Interior to provide financial support to strengthen the security of the Zeebrugge port infrastructure and the functioning of the police in the fight against illegal migration to the United Kingdom. I'll talk about it later. Belgium's participation in a new agreement between France and the United Kingdom depends on its content and its importance for our country. Mr Rigot, in response to your questions, I would like to inform you that the Federal Navigation Police have not seen a significant increase in attempts to reach the United Kingdom from the Belgian coast on makeshift boats. As already mentioned, transmigrants intercepted at sea have, for the most part, left France and drifted to Belgian territorial waters because of the wind and current. Remember that the distance to be crossed from our country is twice as much as from France, with often opposite currents. That is why this modus operandi remains marginal for Belgium, with small boats leaving mainly from France. As for your question on judicial investigations, it falls within the jurisdiction of the judiciary. It should be noted, however, that some investigations into international criminal organizations are based on findings that are formed after the discovery of transmigrants at sea or on land. Thus, on the basis of a limited number of cases of crossing from Belgium, six cases of trafficking in human beings have already been opened this year. These surveys are carried out in close cooperation with France and the United Kingdom. As far as contacts between the European countries concerned are concerned, they begin as soon as rescue operations are concerned. Let us stress the following point: the first consideration, when referring to a boat potentially loaded with migrants, is the need to rescue people in difficulty. This begins with a search and rescue rescue operation coordinated by the Maritime Rescue and Coordination Centre in Ostend. The shipping police, customs and excises as well as the Defence make their fleet available to rescue services in case of need. Control over possible illegal stay begins only when people are out of danger. In terms of bilateral discussions, the Federal Police and the UK Home Office concluded last March a memorandum of understanding by which the United Kingdom makes available to the Federal Police the sum of €788,000 for the purchase of technical means: drones, semi-rigid boats, CO2 detectors, vehicles, migration dogs, etc. These means are purchased and implemented by the Federal Police. In addition, operational cooperation with the United Kingdom and the establishment of a liaison officer to facilitate the flow of information and collaboration with the British Administration, the UK Border Force, on the one hand, and the National Crime Agency, on the other. The UK Border Force offers daily two teams of three people equipped with detection equipment to search for transmigrants in cargoes, as well as two dogs migration with their master. Of course, the United Kingdom is also working with the French authorities. As for this common unit that you mentioned, which is aimed at combating the smuggling of migrants, the Federal Police is not aware of this initiative, which, if it proves to be correct, will quickly come up against a problem of lack of a legal framework in case of hard Brexit. Mr Demon, I closely follow the phenomenon of transmigration, together with my colleague Mahdi, Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Indeed, last Friday we visited Zeebrugge in the context of further understanding of the problem of transit migration. I had a meeting with the mayor, the prosecutor and the port administration, and I also visited the shipping police. I have also seen them at work in close cooperation with the UK Border Force, by the way, successfully, because on that day a family with four children was rescued from a cooling container. A good policy is constantly evaluated and adjusted where necessary. Transmigration also changes, as you yourself say, both as regards the profile of the transmigrants, the modus operandi and the routes of the smugglers. My visit last Friday is therefore part of these changing circumstances. Also the moments of consultation within the provinces, initiated by my predecessor, should be able to better coordinate the policies and investments of all partners. Four important conclusions, which were highlighted in that consultation, I would like to add. First of all, a good alignment of everyone's efforts is essential to achieve an adequate tailor-made approach. Next, the presence of private surveillance on the highway parkings offers an added value that has been underlined several times and has a lasting interest. Thirdly, the problem of freeway parking is obviously not limited to the car parks themselves, because the environment and the routes followed by the transmigrants and possibly smugglers must also be taken into account in a tailor-made approach. Finally, the administrative workload and long lead times for handling a file require much and sometimes too much police capacity, which needs to be looked at more closely. With these conclusions from my predecessor's visits, I will get to work. The procedure you are referring to is indeed long and archaic, which is also confirmed in the recent report by the Bossuyt Committee. That is why I will urge my colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, to simplify the procedure considerably in order to speed things up. We will continue to follow that closely. In any case, I am looking forward to a follow-up so that we can assess progress on the ground. Colleagues Pills and Depraetere, Zeebrugge, with its port and connections to the United Kingdom, is a natural bottleneck for transmigrants who absolutely want to cross the border. It is not surprising that transmigrants are found there. Last year, for example, 28% of all interceptions of transmigrants were carried out by the Zeebrugge shipping police, while those involved may have been present on Belgian territory for some time. Under the covid measures, this service also continued to carry out almost continuous checks. The interception figures of the shipping police are therefore the most reliable to get an idea of the evolution of the phenomenon of transmigration at the moment. The impact of co-vid measures in Europe and reduced mobility are evident in the spring figures. After the systematic reopening of borders by the various European countries, we see a revival of the phenomenon, but a classic summer peak, as we knew it, is not being achieved. The first data from the autumn also indicate a normal fall back after the summer. That is, of course, something we will follow up on in the coming weeks. The Intervention Corps (CIK) of West Flanders has already been considerably strengthened in recent years with a view to providing good general support to all police forces in the arrondissement as part of the approach to transmigration. In concrete terms, this translates into an open offer of support for the implementation of targeted patrols and assistance in the administrative handling and transfer of migrants and to support coordinated control actions. In addition, structural support is provided to the road police and to the shipping police. It is not acceptable in a rule of law that citizens should take the law into their own hands. In Belgium, by the way, there is a law banning private militias. Inciting hatred and the use of violence are also punishable. I'm not saying anything new. We are counting on it and are confident that the police and the judiciary will respond appropriately. The residential areas in the port of Zeebrugge are part of the Bruges police zone. Local security policy is also a responsibility of local government. It is therefore primarily up to the mayor and the local police to communicate about this. I assure you, however, that it will also be followed by the federal police. I will also make sure that the necessary measures are taken to keep the problem under control wherever possible. There is a possibility that, in the run-up to the Brexit of 1 January, some unrest may arise among transmigrants and that they will therefore try to reach the United Kingdom before 1 January. This also turned out to be the case at the end of 2019 with the messages at that time. In reality, a Brexit will not change much for them, but the additional security of the port, the supervision and the controls in it may be a trigger. There will also be a number of additional administrative obligations, which may be an incentive for migrants to come. Addressing trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings is a policy priority that I fully support. It is reprehensible that criminal gangs benefit from people fleeing war and violence or who are in a very difficult situation. I will continue to insist on the implementation of targeted police operations, with both an administrative and a judicial component where necessary. The port of Zeebrugge is a fairly open area with several residential centres. Sealing and securing the port in accordance with the French example is therefore not an issue and is impossible. The most sensitive areas are secured, including fences and camera surveillance. I also understand that additional efforts will be made there. In addition, terminal operators are primarily responsible for the surveillance and security of the port site. Under the co-ordination of the Governor of West Flanders, a project is currently under way to better coordinate and work together on the private sector's actions and to ensure that the available information can also be shared where necessary in order to identify the problem of transmigration. The Federal Police Shipping Police supervises and carries out controls in the context of the fight against illegal migration and trafficking in human beings. For targeted checks, it can count on support from the West Flanders Intervention Corps and assistance from the UK Border Force. Apart from a number of specifically trained migration dogs, the shipping police now also have two drones that will allow aerial surveillance of the port of Zeebrugge from the beginning of next year. Mr Rigot, an analysis is actually being carried out by the federal police on Frontex escort agents. This analysis, which includes several phases, includes a legal component. The latter concerns the status and, more specifically, the competences of foreign agents present on Belgian territory as members of Frontex escorts providing support to Member States in certain forced return operations. The issue of the use of coercion is primarily limited to the focus of the discussions. The case is monitored in collaboration with the Aliens Office, which is a key partner here. Several meetings have been held in recent months to agree on a short-term approach that will provide a satisfactory response for all relevant actors (including the field) and ensure cooperation with Frontex under the best possible conditions. At this stage, the reflection within the Federal Police focuses more concretely on the proposal of possible solutions. This work is carried out by involving a number of relevant police services with the aim of rapidly developing a coherent legal framework, where appropriate through a legislative initiative, but also at the operational level. The subject continues to attract the attention of the federal police, but given the current context, the latter is not in a position to provide a detailed timetable for the progress of this issue in the coming months. In the meantime, cooperation with Frontex teams continues to take place in accordance with the existing international and national normative framework and taking into account the recommendations of the oversight bodies of the police services. I will not fail to inform Parliament of developments in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u49	Minister, according to several studies, including that of Migreurop, we would have seen an increase in passages through the Channel. I agree with you when you say that this concerns more Calais, which is closer to the English coast. According to the studies conducted, the increase in these passages is due to two main factors. The first is a certain hypocrisy of the British who close their borders but who, in view of the lack of seasonal workers in the East, especially because of the VOCID-19, have let go a lot of so-called transmigrants whom I call, for my part, migrants. The second is the threat of Brexit and rumors. To be often on the ground, I can say that these smugglers and bandits you quote spread completely false rumours, especially about the consequences of Brexit. But, as you said, Brexit will not really change much in the situation. Britain opens and closes borders a little according to its desires. She's increasing her controls or not. This practice is of course to be denounced. On the other hand, while France is a starting point for the crossing which, unfortunately, is also sometimes swimming, it is well known that a large part of these migrants pass through Belgium. This raises the question of the actions to be taken in our country. I'm not of any angelism. I know that the hard fight against smugglers is extremely necessary, but I think we have to ask ourselves why these smugglers exist. Then we have another card to play than repressive logic. It's information. The smugglers will continue to exist, the refugee camps on the motorway areas too, as long as we are not in a pedagogical logic with these migrants. These persons, who sometimes qualify for asylum or subsidiary protection in Belgium, are not aware of this because they are often manipulated by smugglers. What has been successful in putting into the government agreement, namely the information and guidance of these migrants, is absolutely necessary. These smugglers and trafficking in human beings will not be combated if we do not go through this stage of information. For the most part, these people have travelled thousands or even tens of thousands of kilometres, and unfortunately they will not stop at repressive logics, because they are extremely motivated, sometimes for bad reasons, to cross. I'll finish by that, and I'm sorry for the 20 seconds of supplement. This raises the question of "the" solution to prevent trafficking in human beings, i.e. safe and legal routes. In this government agreement, we have the opportunity to increase them. In the course of the negotiations on Brexit, we must be able to open this part with Britain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u50	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers. On the question of Frontex, I thank you already for coming back to us in the coming weeks when you have the useful elements. This is an important issue in the return policy that we are putting in place: with which partners and how can it be applied with as much respect as possible for those whom we will have to return to their country? Indeed, some of these people, who unfortunately no longer have a future in our territory, will not return voluntarily. We must enforce the law, but we must do so with respect and find all possible measures to ensure that the return takes place on a voluntary basis. In addition, you rightly point out what is to be seen, namely that it is the horror of trafficking in human beings, which we are talking about every day, whether at the level of the Belgian coast, but also in the whole of our territory, in all our motorway parking lots. We had the opportunity to hear from the airport police during the hearings following the Bossuyt report. We also heard from the road police. They're calling. They do not now have sufficient resources. They need more flexible and faster procedures, and stronger collaboration with the Aliens Office. As you say, this is a policy that you will have to pursue with your colleague Mr. Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. We really need to give ourselves the means of this policy, to give ourselves the means to fight against smugglers. As Mr. Moutquin mentioned, it is also important to consider that it takes time for transmigrants to land in a transit centre to understand the issues at stake, to be able to make the choices and to reasonably know where they are going and how they are going. It is therefore these common policies that will have to be pursued tomorrow. I look forward to seeing your note in the next few days, which will allow us to discuss it again with you. Thank you, Minister, and good work!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. You have given a clear answer. Two important points. Voluntary return is certainly important. Those who do not want to return voluntarily must be forced. You just mentioned that you would be in contact with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. You will have to consult with each other, because I have also asked the question to the Secretary of State who would consult with you. There must therefore be clear consultation on whether we can hold people who are being transferred to a closed centre for more than 24 hours. I'm not sure this falls under your jurisdiction or the Secretary of State's. It is good that there will be discussions on this, but it must be resolved together by both of you. To finish, I'll take my hat off for your services and for the port community. After all, why is there more nuisance in the residential area of Zeebrugge? Because the port area is better guarded. You yourself referred to the extra cameras. Unfortunately, we see that because of less entry into the port area, the nuisance shifts to the residential area. That's what we need to focus on. So two points. We need to keep a close eye on the residential area. On the subject of consultation, I would like to ask questions or make proposals to see how we can work with the two departments to keep people in closed centres for more than 24 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u52	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. You said that the port of Zeebrugge is a bottleneck and you also indicated that more and more investments are being made, with the help of the British themselves and also with the help of the companies, in higher fences, more cameras, more barbed wire, more dogs, you name it. That makes it even harder for the transmigrants to get on the boat to England. As a result, the transmigrants continue to wander, still looking for a hole in the ever better security. I think the focus is definitely needed, and I would like to hear you say that you will try, for example, to catch people already along the highways or at highway parkings. I think everyone supports that approach. It is then necessary for these people to be detained pending a decision. In this context, I have also put some questions to the attention of your colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Mr President, since this is a topical debate, can the Minister reply further if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u53	Parliament always gets the last word, Mr Pillen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u54	That's very good. In my previous professional activity, I was sitting in the committee rooms on the other side of the table and then I thought differently, but now I think that is a very good idea. Madam Secretary, you spoke of the intervention force and an open offer of support. I would like to know whether a question has already been asked and people have already been sent to West Flanders. I think it is really important for the people of Zeebrugge to see police presence, but you have not answered that part of my question. In this period the darkness is already falling in at about 17.00 hours. However, the local police simply can't handle all that work anymore. I'm sure the mayor told you. For the police presence, I therefore believe that the federal police forces should be sent to Zeebrugge. As a result, there is a police presence in the streets and, when necessary, action can be taken against various forms of crime and nuisance. We have to deal with these people humanely, because it is about people on the loose. We must bring them into the filières, we must understand the legal filières, in order to find a solution. However, the nuisance for the small community of Zeebrugge, Zwankendamme and Lissewege must stop. Perhaps you have an answer to that; I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u55	In the past extra men have been sent, last year 10 and the year before. Today there is no outstanding demand. It wasn't discussed during the visit last week either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u56	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It is good to hear that there is sufficient attention to the police and that there are projects in the province to coordinate security. As you said yourself, Minister, the Brexit could be a trigger for additional pressure on the port of Zeebrugge. It is therefore right that the approach of smugglers should be a priority in your policy in the coming years. In view of the Brexit, which is coming towards us, I would like to stress once again that there is absolutely no time to lose in that regard. A quick interaction will certainly be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u57	Are there any colleagues who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u58	Madam Minister, I have not been in Parliament for long, but I have had to have this debate in this committee a dozen times. Every time it's about the same thing, every time it's about the pot. It is about extra men who are needed and about the need for better communication, both with the services and with the local authorities, and now you say, Mr Pillen, that we must also communicate better with the people themselves. I hope that if you will communicate about the number of transmigrants that have been arrested, you will also communicate fairly about the number of transmigrants that have just been released into society after that. It is very important to be transparent about this too. What was new today was that Mr Demon also said that we should stop mopping while the crane is open. That's exactly what I've been repeating over and over again over the past year. However, CD&V is in the local administration, in the provincial administration, in the Flemish administration, in the federal administration and in the European administration. On all levels the CD&V is represented and is part of the crane. Why don't you just shut them down, for God's sake, instead of telling someone else to do it? Madam Minister, please sit with Secretary of State Mahdi, please sit with those in power of the European Union and tackle the cause, because only in this way will the much work of our police and local authorities and the patience they have to bring about finally pay off. Mr Pillen, you say that people are going to take the law into their own hands. Madam Secretary, you say that hate is being provoked and you even speak of private militias, but if girls are being assaulted, if bicycles are being stolen, if car windows are constantly knocked in, if people break into houses again and again, then there is a reaction. That reaction will either come from the government, or from the people who live there. I hope, as a democrat, that that reaction will come from the government. There is no one else who will decide that but you. That's your responsibility. You have all the keys in your hands to tackle this problem at the root. Instead of talking about the same thing over and over again in the next committee and the committees, I say: just turn off the crane.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic300x.u59	We would now proceed to the next debate on the threat of terrorism, but the Minister must leave at 5:10 p.m. I don't want to get this over with fast. The procedure provides that we shall not be able to deal with the questions without having had this debate first.
