ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u2	By letter dated 1 October 2020, the sp.a. group informed me of the appointment of Ms Melissa Depraetere as group chair. By letter dated 1 October 2020, the sp.a. group informed me of the appointment of Mrs Melissa Depraetere as the group leader.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u3	By letter dated 1 October 2020, the Ecolo-Groen Group informed me of the appointment of Gilles Vanden Burre as Group President. By letter dated 1 October 2020, the Ecolo Green Group informed me of the appointment of Mr Gilles Vanden Burre as group chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u4	The next item is the discussion of the Government's statement. The next item is the debate on the government statement. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made good agreements at the Conference of Presidents on the allocation of speaking time. Speaking time is 'globalised', so each group is free to allocate speaking time among several speakers. Each group is free to allocate its speaking time among different speakers. Moreover, you are not obliged to intervene in the thematic discussions. I repeat, speaking time is global. The time used in the general discussion can no longer be used in the thematic discussion. You know that the members of the government can intervene at any time to clarify certain matters, that is their right. Following the general discussion, the Prime Minister is expected to reply and, if necessary, replies may be given. Colleagues, there is a right of interruption. There's a right to interrupt. The Rules of Procedure provide that interruptions are permitted provided that they are addressed to the speaker on the speaker's seat. They can last up to two minutes. So we're not gonna interrupt each other in order, in the wild, to debit certain things. The speaker shall be interrupted only on matters on which he shall address himself. Wat ik nu gezegd heb klinkt logisch, it seems quite logical, but in practice it often happens differently. Right of interruption, vis-à-vis the speaker, on the subject he is developing. We are following the order of the political groups, in accordance with the Döhdondt system. Mr De Roover of the N-VA Group will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by congratulating the government? It's about time. I think we can at least agree on that. I do not know how much agreement we will find today, but that it is high time, perhaps, that will not be contested. Prime Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, let us hope that your passage in that chair will be of great benefit to our people. You will understand that I am going to put a few questions to that effect right away. That is what this debate is for. I'll start with a formula of a silly joke. What do Tom Dumoulin, Michael Matthews, Racing Genk and Alexander De Croo have in common? That's the number seven. In the Tour of France, that means you've been driving a disappointing round. At a world championship, you're not gonna tell that at home. Racing Genk in the Jupiler League had hoped for better and perhaps you too in the election, because you finished seventh. That's not the highest scaffold in sport. But politics is a separate branch of sport. It has brought you suddenly, with a strong end spurt, where you stand now. Is that a scandal? Mwah. I quote someone, namely yourself, a quote you expected: without N-VA and PS you will never get a stable government. I don't like a purple-green government. And on the question of whether it would make a difference if you could become Prime Minister, you replied on 31 August: Open Vld did not do well in the elections. We are the seventh party in Parliament. You have to respect democracy, you said. As Prime Minister without power, you are the mop of the government. I am glad to quote you, because I would not dare to put it that way myself. It would be criticised. 'Cause here you are now. You're the numero uno. You made your maiden speech in this place yesterday. The space was historic, it occurred to me that your government announcement was less so. When Mr Verherstraeten made an attempt at some point to create some enthusiasm by starting applause, you responded: Mr Verherstraeten, you must do your best. In all honesty, if a speech does not produce much applause, then it is the speaker who should do better. Maybe you've been in the wrong direction... In any case, the greatest enthusiasm, if I may use that word, has led you to the sentence: "This government will do everything in its power to overcome this crisis." Yes, the bar is very low, of course, because I can assume that no one in the Chamber will try to stop you from doing so. In short, I didn't have the impression that the desire jumped off yesterday. I understand that, too. Anyone who has the courage to plow the coalition agreement will share that lack of enthusiasm. Yeah, roaring announcements, a smooth marketing story, talk, and I'll give you that, I'm sure, a trigger for pretty pictures. The government statement seems to have been turned by the positivo word generator, but it hardly ever becomes concrete. Fortunately, because you are the most green government in history, fortunately hot air does not cause extra emissions. The excess paper, however, is, because your purple-green team has separated a coalition agreement that is purple-green... I don't know, it's mostly noticed by more or less fifty shades of gray. In this sense, the coalition chord has become a work of art, because it contains a lot of flou artistique. Can I give you an example of that flou artistique? I quote from that government agreement: "The exemption from employers' contributions for the recruitment of the first employee will be extended after 2020. That's concrete. In the course of 2021, an evaluation of the system will be carried out in consultation with the social partners, which could lead to an adjustment. What's that? Do the negotiations within your government still have to follow to know where to go? Anything can do, coffee can, jerry can, anything can do. I would like to give you one more on the flight bill, which is an important matter for those involved. You devote a sentence to that, I exaggerate: two. We are implementing a solution to the noise and legal uncertainty facing Brussels National Airport. The government is working out a draft balanced flight law. End of quote. I didn't expect you to write: "The government is working out a draft of unbalanced flight law." That would have surprised me. I think you're actually saying, "We don't know yet." We'll see. But we'll think about it someday. The pension split, for those interested in the theme, what does the government say about that? The principle of the pension split will be studied. It is particularly reassuring that you will devote study work to this. The level of ambition is not always very high, I must say. Let me quote again: 'The Central Council for Business will shortly deliver a study'........................................................................................................................................................................................ The government calls on the sectoral social partners to launch a debate on the remuneration package on this basis. So there will be a study and then you will ask the social partners to start a debate on this. I suspect you will succeed. I think you'll be able to keep that promise. I note that that is easy nowadays, in Word one can look up that which appears in your coalition agreement 10 times the word "if applicable," 55 times the word "investigate" and 61 times the word "invaluate." I have the impression you're not running a government. You're running a study firm. And I look forward to the tons of paper that will follow from that. People with a bad character, and I am not, will also recognize the input of the CD&V, because five times we read in your coalition agreement on the other hand, on the other hand. For example, when distributing envelopes, it should also be borne in mind that strong and effective social security is based on a healthy mix of solidarity and insurance. This requires, on the one hand, a serious minimum level of social security that allows us to combat poverty. On the other hand, the insurance aspect of our benefits is today affected by low replacement rates which are disproportionate to their contributions for many income groups. That's just a determination. That's an introduction to a presentation. That doesn't really have anything to do with a coalition agreement, I think. What's with all the fuss? Of course, there's a lot of disagreement in there. You spent the last 20 hours together to finalize the lyrics. Who thought that they were looking for the last agreements, which must now establish that you have probably spent 20 hours in the process of questioning: what hollow wordings can we elegantly hide the contradictions from those who are limited to a superficial reading? Forty-five times as many as sixty-one times as many as one, but the word "reform" in the socio-economic sense occurs once. One time we find the word "reform." Sixty-one times the word "evaluate." I hope you are not going to evaluate that one reform sixty-one time. Besides, the one time it's about parental leave. Your agreement gives the impression of a strong commitment to innovation. Also on political renewal. It's a separate chapter. And I think you want to convey the atmosphere that this is a politically innovative project, which will send out the positivometer again. Now, the first notable innovation, and in it you are less blurry, is the fact that your government counts seven vice prime ministers. Maybe that's a record. Moreover, it is interesting to note that the belgicism of Ecolo-Green is even a very superficial layer. They are fraternally linked in one group, they are always talking about unity and so on, but when vice-premiers have to be appointed, they choose confederalism. I must say that was almost the most pleasant finding in the entire coalition agreement. I congratulate them on this insight. Your government, also in the context of political renewal, has one more minister, one more Secretary of State and three more Deputy Prime Ministers compared to the Swedish Government. You remember, because you were part of it, that the Swedish Government has been careful to reduce its budgets for Cabinets and Governments by 2.3 million. I may assume that I have written to you for that, but I expect an answer to that, but that will probably take some time to go on and that your government, which has been pumped up in terms of its functions, will not allow itself to go to the same extent as the budgets for the Cabinets, and that you will also reduce the budget, in line with the trend of the Swedish Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u6	Mr De Roover, Mr Hedebouw would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u7	Mr President, Mr De Roover, I hear you talking about too many ministers, too many secretaries of state, spending too much money, but I think that Mr Jambon had proposed to double the number of ministers. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen? Mr Jambon had actually proposed one French-speaking minister and one Flemish minister for each competence. So the N-VA today, who had included in her program to double the budgets, is now whining about those two Secretary of State. Allez, un peu de consequence, Monsieur De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u8	Do you know the difference, Mr Hedebouw, between a debate here and a pamphlet in people's mailboxes? I'll give you a rebuttal. Contrary to what you are saying, it has not been proposed at any time that the government is going to take action against fake news, I think you are going to be a little compromised to appoint more ministers in the federal government. In fact, I will tell you that the day our confederal change takes place is going to be greatly reduced, as you will no doubt know but do not wish to tell us here. If you want fewer political staff, you will join our efforts towards confederalism. I'm glad you came to that understanding, too. More important than what I have just mentioned is another break with the Swedish Government, and that is a fundamental break in which I would like to dwell for a moment. The Swedish Government has taken steps to restore the primacy of politics, and it should have done so more quickly. You'll get back to me. In your coalition agreement, you announce experiments in the form of new civic participation. We have nothing against that, that's good. In the meantime, however, you respect and I have quoted you, so I would not say it myself, not the ultimate form of civic participation, namely democracy as expressed in the ballot box. While you have the symbolism of European voting rights from the age of sixteen, and so on, such things will naturally stand out, and we will find no less than forty times the word'social consultation' in your coalition agreement. Yes, you are pumping employers and employees back into the decision-making process at the expense of Parliament, of course. What does that mean in practice? Those who make a choice in the ballot box but are not employers or members of a trade union, you say, forty times, do not interfere with the decision-making process. Wait for what is happening in those dark chambers, and we will also wait as a government for what is happening there, and we will also expect Parliament to wait for it to hear what is happening in those private chambers of social dialogue. Do we want to abolish social dialogue? No. However, the way in which you once again catapult that prominently in the decision-making process is remarkable. I read in the media the determination of economists that you are back in line with the purple use to distribute pennies as a binder for the coalition. In particular, your budgetary ambition is characterised by a blurring vagueness. It is probably not a coincidence that, for example, you do not have a Minister for the Budget, but a Secretary of State. Anyone who can teach the metier in that department and I wish her every success in doing so. Because the question of who pays the bill is, of course, a question of what you are making a big turn around. Four to eight billion will cost your journey, the experts say. We have the planned reduction of deficits. We have the new policy. Of course, that's not a bummer. An initial series of smaller taxes is announced. Of course, they won't settle the score. This digital valuation, for example, if necessary in 2023 on its own. If you can do that in a European context, I think we can all look at it. But beware, if you push modernity forward so much, you will not turn this country into a desert for the digital sector. Anyway, we're gonna see what that brings. However, I would like to go back to the question of who is going to pay the bill. Then, of course, we have the most hallucinating sentence from your coalition agreement. I have to quote it here: "No new taxes will be introduced except in the context of budgetary discussions which respect the agreed balances (income, expenditure & miscellaneous) and respect for people who work, enterprise and save." You stole the last one from the N-VA, but you didn't steal the first one. So you say that there will be no new taxes on page 43, and on page 45, that is not very far, you say that the budgetary effort will be made according to the following key: a third in expenditure, a third in revenue and a third in miscellaneous expenditure. Those miscellaneous want to be quite often hidden taxes, but again, we will see what you put on the table before we can talk about it in concrete terms. But a third income? Yes, of course it is difficult to say, two pages earlier, that we are not actually going to introduce new taxes. Of course you're gonna do that. Tell me that. 6.4 billion if we talk about reducing the deficit, and 3.2 billion new policies, then we will soon be close to 10 billion. Yes, 3.2 billion in new taxes, 3.2 billion in other diverse revenues. I have to tell you that together with a lot of working, saving and active people, I am holding my heart to how you are going to implement that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u9	Mr President, Mr De Roover, you know that phrase very well, of course. You also know very well how a budget is made. The previous Minister of Finance, a good Minister of Finance, was your party, Mr Van Overtveldt. He was present at every budget debate and you also defended the Swedish Government's policy until you decided at some point, for reasons that are still difficult to explain to me, that you simply wanted to torpedo it. I think that around the whole of Belgium still did not understand why you insisted on torpedoing that policy. But since the Minister of Finance was part of your party, could you perhaps indicate to me in the three budgets made in the Swedish Government, which part of that budget came from revenue? Was that 0 % or was that another number?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u10	First of all, it seems that the government is working in collegiality. If you felt you should ignore a party on what you thought was a non-binding theme, then it was you who played with fire. Because if it's non-binding, why can't you have a basic respect for a loyal coalition partner? That's the question I'm asking myself until today. But to answer your other question: it is actually the left-hand side that you are answering. I hear constantly saying, until today, that Johan Van Overtveldt's tax shift is not covered. That's what they call it. Do you know what that means? Yes, you know what that means. That means that as a government we have returned more to the companies and to the people than we have taken from them. That's what we call a tax reduction. That is the answer to your question. And you are regularly reminded of this by the left, at least in your previous position. Maybe now they're getting more tolerant of what you're putting here today. So yes, that's where you've been, and you've been involved in that, by the way, an important reduction. Because of course it's about the pluses and the minuses. It's about the pluses and the minuses, and that's the word "taxshift." There is no reason, by definition, to make no changes to the distribution of taxes. We do not need to be fixed in the current distribution of the various taxes. But the end result has to be the government, let me put it this way, indeed revenue costs. That's what happened at the tax shift. This tax issue now: no tax reduction is announced in your entire document. None, zero. So any euro tax that you will bring in more will in any case be a tax increase. And what about the abilities, and what are his abilities? 'Cause of course, that sounds great, everyone will say to themselves that he's less wealthy and it's the others who have to pay. Your fresh new government actually responds to that as if it were a wild henhouse. Is it true that Deputy Prime Minister Gilkinet's claim that rent income will also be taxed? Can the Flemings hear that, because they are particularly interested in that? 'We are going to ask for a contribution', says Mr Van Quickenborne, who has moved a bit towards the centre over the past few days, if I may put it that way. These are silillin phrases that are of course very much behind, in which many people with a visa waiver wait until you will implement it, because one third of them you have promised will be spent through taxes. So, what about the power tax and who are they? And what about the rent income? Can you guarantee here, Prime Minister? This is an important debate, you are taking the first steps, you are only making a first impression once that, for example, rental income will not be taxed? I take it this is an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u11	Mr De Roover, the Prime Minister can answer or he can replicate at the end. It is the government's choice to ask for the floor or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u12	We've got a long day ahead of us. When I first saw that he was very eager to ask a question, which I have no problem with, it was of course because at that moment he thought he would say something to his advantage. When he shuts up now, I suspect that's because he thinks he has nothing to say to his advantage. That's the only way. But the debate is still until 3 p.m. You have half a day left to think about an answer and, if necessary, consult with my fellow Members to vote on the violins. Speaking of the invoice, yesterday you also had some success with the sentence: "Who has worked his life, who deserves a decent pension." I hope, however, that during the course of the day we do not hear anyone here saying: 'If you have worked for a lifetime, you do not deserve a decent pension.' I suspect that's also a sentence that won't cause much controversy. Everyone agrees. We agree that it is important that those lowest pensions should be those that are actually too low, and that is undoubtedly so much for those who have contributed their lives. However, it brings us to the simple question of how the last few days and hours have brought about exactly what this promised 1,500 euro pension is about. If one waits long enough, of course, inflation will automatically ensure that everyone with EUR 1,500 will have, because you mention an amount and not a welfare objective. Anyway, is that gross or net? I quote Mr Bouchez, who I regret is not a Member of Parliament. Is that a cost of 760 million or 3.6 billion? As it stands in your coalition agreement, it's net. So we have already spent 3.2 billion on new policies, Mr Bouchez says. His reasoning is that although the coalition agreement states that it is net, one can read in the tables that it is impossible to net; actually it is gross, otherwise it would cost so much that our budget table is no longer correct. So one should actually read: net is equal to gross. It has caused confusion, and you will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u13	Mr Hedebouw asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u14	I would also like to congratulate Mr Hedebouw on his appointment as Minister in this government, because he is representing your defence, Mr De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u15	You've been playing the game of neoliberal politics here for five years. Now the opposition is gonna play with everything you're gonna play socially? I'm going to ask you the question right away. First of all, do you think it should be net or gross? Is the N-VA going to take a stand on this and tell us clearly what its speech is? Secondly, I think it should be net. Do you know why? Because here in Belgium we have one of the lowest pensions in all Western European countries. Here 1,200 euros, while in France, Germany and the Netherlands it is all much higher. I think it makes perfect sense and I will tell the government why I think it should be net. However, I find it scandalous that a right-wing party such as the N-VA continues to say that people should not earn EUR 1,500 net. I find that a disgrace. I find it a disgrace in a country as rich as Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u16	Mr Hedebouw, so you ask me a question and then you say: it is a disgrace, which you are going to answer. Firstly, we believe that people who have worked a full career, who are working for 45 years, deserve a pension of EUR 1,500, because these pensions are too low. That means, in the.polleke. But that does mean that the treated periods need to be revisited. And that's a question I'm asking the government. 'Cause I don't have a lot of questions to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u17	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u18	I replied, look at the video again, then you can listen to the answer again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u20	No, I answered. Moreover, Mr Hedebouw, there is a second element that is of the utmost importance in the pension scheme, and that is the length of the career, the longer working. You guys are the Labour Party, but you're mostly the party "Stop rap with work," which is actually the new name of the PVDA. We are the 'Party of Labour', who wants to reward labour and who also wants to provide work, because you make the comparison with other countries, where, of course, on average, they retire four to five years later and where they still earn a professional income for four to five years. However, I would prefer to address myself to the government. It is reported that we have had that discussion with Mr Bouchez at the congress of the MR one abstention. I suspect that was Mr Bouchez himself. For he has read the coalition agreement and said: I do not agree with it, I will abstain. Can we hear any clarity about this from you? Because the cacophony in your cabinet is a long way from clarity. What about those treated periods? Mr Van Quickenborne gave an indication yesterday: there is a difference between 45 years of professional activity and 45 years of unemployment. How are you going to handle that within your colorful government? You promise to increase the rate of effectiveness to 80%; we fully support that. That could have been taken out of our program. But you are going to refer that objective to 2030. This means that we will not be able to deal with your government in 2024. For you could say, for example, that we actually meant that from 2024 onwards that whole effort must be made. No one will be able to say: you did not say that. Actually, you didn't say anything. In the future, it'll all be fine. But that's another legislature. And I don't know if the seventh party of the country will be in office again. It's about 700,000 people who have to get to work. That's ambitious. How are you going to realize that? Once again, it seems that positivorad should be enough, because there is not a single sound labour market measure to be found. The fact that this portfolio came into the hands of a Minister of PS signature does not make us more optimistic in this respect. And let us be honest: the Swedish labour market reform train has come to a halt. The bridge pension is in danger of reviving. There is no further degressivity in unemployment benefits. But we do get planned economic solutions instead, such as zones without long-term unemployment. You didn't just call it sovchozen. The government will ensure that one can be hired with subsidised jobs, I suspect. You're also going to increase the benefits. To what extent will you monitor the inactivity or activity trap? Because it threatens to interfere with the Flemish government's policy, which gives a job bonus to reward more jobs, while you possibly take care of them, and I'm curious to hear your answer that certain benefits are going up. If that is about difficult or non-activable people, we can definitely go along with it, because there is no alternative for those people. But when we think about living wages or unemployment benefits, they are people who, of course, we cannot allow ourselves to be integrated into that activity trap. What was perhaps reported on that at the Vld-conference? How did you excite your supporters in this matter? Those 40 references to social dialogue, let us be honest: then, of course, you know that activation measures will hardly come about. If you do not have the courage as a politician, as a leader of government, to call on your own groups to make clear decisions where legislative work needs to be done, and if you continue to hide behind that social dialogue, I am afraid I know the result. And it shouldn't be surprised that in a newspaper it is written that your purple-green chord is mostly a red-green chord, and that even the blue shades have disappeared from it economically. By the way, there's a lot of holes in it. Anyone seeking a solution to the problem of the Major Law, the unitary status of workers-servants, the procedures for collective redundancies in restructuring, the flexi-jobs, the law on competitiveness, will find nothing about this in your government agreement. However, I do not think you will be able to get out of putting it on the table. Your coalition agreement, you said yesterday, is the greenest thing ever. That's right. It could be called ambitious; dogmatic would probably be a more appropriate terminology. You are already at the top of the European platoon in reducing emissions by 55%. This has been heard with great attention and enthusiasm in a number of neighbouring countries, because the division of effort in Europe has not yet been discussed. As you have already said, we, as a country that is heavily dependent on its economic progress and its economic potential, on industry, will be the forerunner in this. We'll do anything you can do less. It's a very strange institution to put everything on the table already. And I think I repeat the fact that there is more enthusiasm for your government agreement with neighbouring countries than there is in their own country. You're making the polluter pay. That's a nice word, a nice concept. It sounds good, because we're thinking about that dirtbag that puts an old mattress against the neighbor's façade at night and dessert. And you can't take it hard enough. The polluter must pay. But with 'polluter' we fear that the important economic engines of our country, including in the port of Antwerp, will create prosperity. There's something attached to that. Then it is not so obvious that they simply register in this exercise, while of course they still have the option to carry out their activities abroad. Because that Flemish economic locomotive is really in the sight of your well-targeted tax attacks. Moreover, it will be very strong if you give the impression that the energy source without emissions, nuclear energy, is now definitively buried by you. You do this in a way, with a layer of varnish, which allows everyone to read in it what they like to read. You will stop unless it becomes too expensive or availability is compromised. You therefore give the impression that you are postponing the decision in the facts until November 2021. It may have been a success for you at your Vld-conference and it was very sensible that you did not organise that conference together with Ecolo-Groen. Because I think there would be even more fighting than at certain conferences. But it seems to me that you've been digging deep into the box of tricks. Every expert tells me that it is technically too late in November 2021 to decide to keep nuclear power plants still open. In other words, if you give the impression that if those conditions are not met, that option still exists, then you have deliberately or not allowed yourself to be fooled by Ecolo-Green. However, you promise to take into account the cost and availability of the final decision. Moreover, it is a cost which, thanks to the longer opening up of nuclear power stations, can be better controlled. Now, maybe I'll consult with the wrong experts. We know that the word "expert" does not always mean that everyone agrees. So this specific question, Prime Minister: did you have contact with the operator of the nuclear power plants about the possibility of deciding in November 2021 to keep the nuclear power plants open if necessary, as you write in your coalition agreement? Did you ask them that question? I would really like an answer to that. There are actually only two possibilities: either you asked that question and then I want to know what the answer was. Either you did not ask that question, and that would be a huge blunder, which would only be a sign of huge amateurism, if you engaged in a night-time negotiation with politicians for which you would not even have made a phone call to the operator with the question: can this at all? Does what we write down here have any sense of reality? So, have you been in contact with the operator and what did he tell you about it? I suspect we're going to get an answer to that later. Of course, you are right to attach great importance to health care, and this is rightly given a prominent place in your coalition agreement. You stated something that appealed to me very much yesterday in your speech, that you absolutely want to avoid a new lockdown. In this you will find an ally with us, because also a lockdown, which we have established, causes victims, not only economically, but also simply health victims. Unfortunately, we have all had to establish that. You also included in your government agreement new healthcare expenditure, which has already been decided in Parliament. You're gonna use that to put a couple of false plumes on your hat. Anyway, let that be a detail criticism against the background of the whole. Your firm growth standard for health expenditure.. the economic cycle is to make an additional effort in that respect................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Cent promise is pleasurable in this area, but this exercise is all the worse, the more difficult if it is not accompanied by efficiency exercises or savings that do not affect the patient. For example, you are avoiding the question of hospital funding. It'll be on the table. It can't be ignored! But you do so in your coalition agreement. Interesting, and we will follow this with great attention, is the ambition to achieve more homogeneous responsibilities. One can ask oneself a question, if that is really the intention. I can accept that, and I think that Minister Vandenbroucke has said some interesting things about this in the past. So we are hopeful, but if that is indeed the ambition, if there is an agreement among your partners, then the question arises as to whether there is still a sense of wanting to carry out too great federal reforms, knowing that this power is actually going to end federally on important matters. We'll follow it. As far as your security policy is concerned, you give the impression that there are some Swedish reforms that should be pursued. You have even more money at your disposal. Money is being spilled and if it is well spent on the safety component, then that is a good thing. So if you keep your word, we will support you in this. But yesterday's government statement addressed security and justice very little. So I didn't get the impression, because such a government statement here in Parliament is a little bit the time when you put your spearheads forward that that was one of the spearheads, so we will have to wait and see. The fact that you do not mention the posting and the short prison sentences are important gaps, and I really hope that you will fill those gaps. We will take parliamentary initiatives, and we have already taken them. The word "hate crime" occurs, just like fake news and so on. You want to curb that. I can imagine. Yeah, who wants hate or fake news? I would like to ask you not to forget your liberal background, because a Ministry of Truth is not what you want, and that is not what we want either. A government that is going to decide with the press agency TASS what can be done to public opinion and what can not, that is a very slippery area. Please be very careful about that, too. There are a number of passages in your coalition agreement that worry me a little bit. I'll be on the topic of overseas. As far as asylum and migration are concerned, we do not really find any intertwining, which is absolutely necessary. I'm sure we'll get back to you today. The appeal of our country is likely to increase in this respect. And if this country's attraction is increased, we want it to be especially for investment and also for people with economic know-how, but we must be careful not to give the wrong impression in the area of asylum and migration. The question is, of course, to what extent your government is committed to carrying out the Bossuyt Committee's report. I think there are some very important things in it. But it would have been nice if you had mentioned the name in your coalition agreement. It would have been nice if you had said: 'We should put our shoulders on that.' In particular, we and my group will be curious to see how the sometimes more courageous words of your Secretary of State on this matter will relate to the activist discourse of Ecolo-Groen. I have to tell you that I tend to order a few bags of chips in order to follow those discussions a little more comfortably. I think there will be many practical objections, such as homogeneity in your government, between words and deeds. So the question will be what program ritual will have to be burned. The use of words in your coalition agreement is not always reassuring in this respect. As far as foreign policy is concerned, you seem to have been led by perhaps many apostles on the green side who regard it as our task to save the whole world. With an admonishing finger, we're gonna go crusade-wise and tell everyone how to do it. Now, as long as we tell you, that won't impress much either. But be careful, because you are going to hit the border of the neo-colonial approach. We know how to do it and we are going to make that clear to you. But those are words. How are you going to concreteize it? Do you intend to pursue a sanction policy so that it is more than Words, words, words and you go beyond that passage of Shakespeare? Are you going to deport diplomats? Are you going to take military action? I don't know. How far do you go in confessing beautiful principles and to what extent and where do you think you will have levers? Your coalition agreement on this matter is still a bit like the founding act of a new NGO. And that's, I think, not exactly what we expect from a government. Many fine words so and then I have once again passed the Word document of your coalition chord into the search function. And what stands out? The words "China" or "Russia" do not appear once. Not even to study it. Has your government not noticed that China's actions in the world, even in Europe, raise a number of questions? How is it possible that your coalition agreement does not give it a single word, not even in the disguised terminology you use? Beijing is, of course, far away, but I also have good news: Paris is getting closer and closer, with French speakers as President of the European Council, as Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, European Affairs and Foreign Trade and a French-speaking Minister for Defence, our country will be considered as an appendix to France even more than before. If we are really going to have a thorough debate on our foreign policy, we will have to invite President Macron to move our foreign and defence committees to the Quai d'Orsay in Paris. For it is there that our foreign policy will be determined in the future even more than it already is, I fear. And the fill-in of the dolls indicates a lot in that direction. You know, of course, that the so-called 'Hanze States', small countries in Europe who sometimes find each other, because they do have a few common interests, leave Belgium behind, because they have a lot of common interests. That is what is clear and clear in those capitals. Let's not involve them, because then we can tell Macron right away. The last but most important issue I would like to address is the Community. In fact, I can be very brief, because you will also be very brief. So it is difficult, of course, to discuss such a marginal part of your coalition agreement in detail. So let's just say this doesn't show a lot of ambition. I'd like to point out the wolf irons. After all, you often give the impression of extending your grasping arms to sub-State powers. I know it says "in consultation" and "and so on" it should still be wrong. However, in the field of foreign policy, for example, you are referring to cooperation with the Länder on energy and environmental policy, on housing, energy and biodiversity, but specifically on the part of the Member States. For drug policy, you say you focus on prevention and aid. Strange, it's not a federal matter. You're going to improve digital skills. I think you're on the verge of constitutional agreements there. We will not surprise you very much in that regard. Very interesting was the plea or argument of the Brussels PS to convince the militants of the solidity of their agreement. Above all, they have said what they have all been able to stop: there will be no merger of Brussels police zones and there will be no bilingualism of regional and local administrations. Above all, they say that was coming, but thanks to our courageous defence, we have been able to avoid that. And let us be honest: a good, fair solution to the problems of the RIZIV-numbers should not be expected either. There is even a threat of a federal curatel in this matter. That makes us very concerned. The Senate will continue to exist. Understand who can. Maybe, I don't know, that's within those areas of unlimited employment you're about to install. Maybe they'll be in the Senate. But, of course, there will be a Community study, without taboos. Which is so beautifully formulated. And you're going to strengthen the power of the federal level. Let's face it, why did the government formation take so long? Not because this generation of politicians would be so incompetent, because suddenly there would be fighters, unlike previous generations, who were all focused on general well-being. No. Why did it take so long to form this government, why did it take so long in 2010, why did we get such a bizarre combination? In short, why can't majorities be found on both sides anymore? The fact that the majority of Flemish, active citizens, the main economic engine of this country that will have to take the lead in paying the purple-green invoices that will follow, is not even represented in the government, is a bizarre application of the ancient taxation without representation. You know what the significance of that phenomenon in history has been. Well, I find it particularly regrettable that here again it appears that this should be done in this country too. Not because you chose it. I know that you would rather not, but that Belgian state structure unites politically, for the sake of clarity, so different parts that it is simply embedded in the structure. You can't get out of that. Last time we made a government with a large minority on the French-speaking side. People ask how consistent it is to attack this time. Well, we didn't do that then because we wanted to. We did that then because we did not want to implement the reforms needed to respect democracy, both in the North and in the South of this country. It is a structural problem. You have a long coalition agreement, but you continue to miss that structural problem. That structural problem is a detail in your coalition agreement; a detail that can still go all the way. Lots of varnish to mask the contradictions. Mr De Croo, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, acknowledge that this Belgian model has been worked out. Do not try to reheat this. Warming up a corpse causes odour nuisance and you were the greenest government in history, so that seems to me to be a particularly unfresh thought. The top point is that everyone actually agrees that the status quo is not working and that it is also an insult to the public that we are not tackling that problem. However, I fear that with your investigation, without taboos, you will be able to re-emerge in curieren am Symptom. A little up, a little down, but basically you are not going to address the problem we are facing. And so the next government will be difficult to form again if it is already possible to form another one. And what I find so strange is that, for someone with a liberal background, you have so much pleasure in maintaining those fat governments. What is so pleasant about too many governments, Mr De Croo, that you do not want to do anything about degreasing them? Because our model ensures that one of these political levels can be reduced to an absolute minimum. And that is a thought that you, as a liberal, should very much cherish. You should seize the opportunity to tie that institutional congestion that we know of through these two heavy responsibilities so closely together... Nowhere in the world is there a full government and a full parliament at the level of 7 million inhabitants and also one at the level of 11 million inhabitants. And that fundamental problem is beyond you. That means that your claim that you stand for modernity here is a failure. You're actually choosing to continue an inefficient, sophisticated governance model. Yes, I know: the circumstances are not in order to change the Constitution tomorrow. It's all very well for that. But in fact you do not even want to enter into the debate fundamentally, by actually giving the impression that, with a little bit of bungling in the margins, things may continue to run for another five years. You once knew that confederalism was a good liberal idea, namely the reduction of an administrative layer, which could bring about much-needed reorganisation. Today you are being wrapped up by a dogmatic neobelgicism that not only holds the Flemings, but all the inhabitants of our country hostage in a state of administrative entanglement. You are closing your eyes to this fundamental problem, and that does indeed mean that this purple-green government, which is indeed often said, does not see the majority in this country as a factor in the policy. And indeed, because of the sum total of these two democracies, you will come to a majority in Belgium. That's right. A bizarre majority, a crooked majority. Not because you chose it, but because it is embedded in the structure of this country, and because you refuse to do anything about it, which could really give you a place in history. In that sense, your project of renewal, modernity, lots of marketing and container concepts is a terrible missed opportunity. A missed opportunity for which the working, saving and investing Fleming will be presented a special prize. Prime Minister, I'm closing. We will fight your government in all places, on all themes and with appropriate passion, across the full breadth of the country. I am talking about the Flemish country. You know that we have no family on the other side of the language border, but a beautiful region. And I wish that one day, and preferably very soon, it will also have full self-government. We will do so according to all the rules of art and to the extent that we are given the space to do so according to all the rules of art. We will indeed do so thoroughly, to the point and in terms of content. But I'm sorry. Because we share the concerns of the working, saving and investing Flemings seriously, it is impossible for us to give your government our confidence. We will therefore vote with conviction against confidence in this team tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u21	I call Mr Kristof Calvo to speak for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not telling you a secret when I say that it was not my ultimate ambition to stand here today. But I would like to quote Johan Cruyff: every disadvantage has its advantage. Perhaps the short nights have a little influence on the coherence and speed of my discourse, but I would like to take that opportunity with both hands. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal to be said about what is going on here. I think there is a lot to tell about the state of our country, about the plans of the new government for all Belgians, and there is a lot to tell before this coalition agreement and before the project of this new majority. In the minutes that follow, I will try to do so with great conviction, because I think that is crucial at this time. Trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. I do not know if the French-speaking colleagues know this old saying. She doesn't show up in the 83-page coalition chord. But it could count as a precise definition of the challenge of this new federal government. And, fellow Members, not only for this federal government, but actually for every politician. From the Prime Minister to the city council member, from Ostend to Aarlen, and from left to right. The Prime Minister warned in his discourse of the great risk of mistrust that would grow. I won't contradict you much, Alexander, but I don't think that's a risk anymore. I think it's already a fact. I believe that we must recognise that the explosive cocktail of the corona crisis and the protracted formation of the government has caused a great deal of mistrust. Building confidence will indeed require a different political style. It is only when we politicians set an example, when we show that humanity is not naive, that humanity will also make its comeback in society. It is only if we leave behind foolish and stupid competitive thinking that solidarity will prevail in the Dorpsstraat. There has just been talk about the state structure that needs to change, and that is true. But it can change 100 more times, it can become very ubiquitous or it can become very confessional: in any state structure, parties will need politicians who talk to each other, even if they speak another language and even if they have another membership card in their pocket. But, Prime Minister, trust is not just a matter of style, it is not just a matter of mindset, it is also a matter of concrete answers to people's concerns every day: the low pensions, the too high energy bill, large and small crime and the poor supply of trains. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also the good news, so my intervention will be somewhat different than the previous one: this coalition agreement, this Vivaldi project and this team, with these people who have stuck their necks out, today provide concrete answers to the problems facing all Belgians. I think it's fair to say that there's a trend break here. I am not going to list them all, because I would like to leave some speaking time for my fine new colleague, Gilles Vanden Burre. I'm going to name some of them anyway. Firstly, in the fight against COVID, the fragmentation is exchanged for coordination. My group very much looks forward to the designation of one corona commissioner and also hopes to see extra attention paid to the socially vulnerable at this difficult time. Secondly, fifteen years after An Inconvenient Truth, Al Gore's film, which was a bit of a breakthrough of climate as a political and social theme, there is finally a real climate government. The transition is shifting from the margin of politics to the core of our political action. It's not a separate chapter anymore. It appears, according to some perhaps even a little too much, in every chapter of this coalition agreement. Thirdly, we finally have, after a law on the core exit, also a minister for the core exit. And not only a minister for the nuclear trip, but also a minister for the entry into renewable energy. There is also room for extra windmills in the North Sea. Colleagues, those windmills in the North Sea, that has once begun and it is not a provocation for my fellow Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection as a purple-green project. Today, these windmills are an export product, an example of the resilience and innovation of our Belgian industry. Now we can all say, across party boundaries, that is made in Belgium. Then we're going to do with this government, which Tinne is going to do in the years to come. As part of a comprehensive and ambitious national investment plan, we are finally giving a new impetus to SNCB, the federal government's main climate lever. Our capital must become a turntable of international train traffic and commuters get the appreciation and respect they really deserve. Fourthly, in terms of asylum and migration, we exchange tough statements...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u23	Mr Calvo, Mrs Vindevoghel would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u24	Mr President, I would nevertheless like to ask what your view is on that SNCB, because what is in the agreement is, I believe, a fairly liberal agreement. Do we want to move on to a private company of SNCB or what will it be? I see that you ask external knowledge to start a project, for example, with Areva, a Dutch company, and we know very well how things are going in the Netherlands. There you already have four different companies that are in private hands, so my question to you is: what will be the stakes? Will you continue to maintain or strengthen the privatisation of SNCB or what will it actually be?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u25	May I remind you of the rule that a speaker may be interrupted, but that it must be related to the statement he is making? Otherwise we'll get a lot of chopped straw. So try to talk about something that the speaker is talking about, if I may ask. So do not make speeches prepared in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u26	Mr President, I have a technical question. My colleague and comrade intervened around SNCB when Kristof Calvo spoke about SNCB. Is that still allowed in this hemisphere? I suggest we not start with technical stuff. Let us have a fundamental debate and listen to a good reply from Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u27	Mr President, I am going to reassure you. My question to Mr Calvo is very much in line with his own plea. He emphasized that the coalition wanted to invest in SNCB. If we read the coalition agreement, there is no shortage of voluntarism. There are new connections, new tracks, new trains, conversions of stations, internet on the train, extra trains in the morning, extra trains in the evening, extra trains in the weekends and at night. Very ambitious indeed. But I have a question to ask, Mr Calvo. How the hell are you gonna pay for that? I read in the press that there is additional investment in the railways. That's good. But if you promise to buy additional trains, I seriously wonder how you will finance it, with the knowledge from the previous legislature that a decent order will cost EUR 1.5 billion in excess of investment plans, and also taking into account the large additional structural expenditure and losses that this government wants to create for SNCB. Additional trains at night means additional expenses and additional losses. And we're not even talking about the cost of the corona crisis. So how are you gonna pay for that? Do you really intend to invest several billion more in SNCB or, on the other hand, would you like to increase rail debt? How many hundreds of millions have to be added? And above all, Mr Calvo, can you guarantee that, under the supervision of a green minister, ticket prices for the train will remain the same? Are they going to increase and to what extent? Can you rule out drastic price increases? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u28	Mr Calvo, please continue. I have to admit, I may have been a little too strict a moment ago. But now we are highlighting one debate. The speaker should always have the opportunity to follow a certain logic in the argument he is trying to build up. But I may have been a little too strict earlier, Mr. Hedebouw. That's right. Mr Calvo, please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u29	This government has made a convincing choice to give SNCB the opportunity to be the operator for the whole territory for ten years, but we do want to do so, and I do not think that this is a mistake at all. We also want to introduce external expertise, and we also want to make room, once the modalities have been laid down, for a number of pilot projects. I think, Mrs Vindevoghel, that this is a story that explicitly favours SNCB, a strong public service and the challenge of SNCB to improve quality and supply in the future. I think that we should not look at the public and private sectors as opposites, but that cooperation in this area can also take SNCB a little further. And two, Mr Roggeman, you were right to point out that our majority has ambition. It has just been said: too positive, too ambitious. I do not regard ambition and positivity directly as swear words. And that is what we can see when we talk about the investment plan. And I'm pretty optimistic about that. There are also many possibilities with the resources provided by Europe. Can we say until after the comma of each post today how much is being spent? Of course not. There must also be a certain amount of money left for the budget, but I think that the ambitions of this majority are clear. They are also clear, ladies and gentlemen, in the area of asylum and migration. In the field of asylum and migration, we exchange tough explanations for generosity and humanity. We no longer lock up children, we provide sufficient shelters and we formulate resettlement ambitions. And it's not just wording, we'll make it happen. And perhaps this is of interest to some Members of this House as far as humanitarian visas are concerned, we are working with clear criteria and transparency vis-à-vis Parliament. I was talking about trend fractures. Trend fractures sometimes seem radical, but they can also be simple. You can also get to work on things we've just learned and experienced. And so does this coalition agreement. We're gonna get to work on the cases we discovered during the corona period. Home and telework becomes more the norm, up to two days a week for civil servants, and we also make the shift from cash to electronic and contactless payments. It has been said by the Prime Minister, and in that sense this is the perfect setting for this debate: internationally, the government chooses ambition and a pronounced pro-European course. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are lowering the voting age just before the European elections. Because it is a measure that is pro-Europe, pro-future and pro-young people. And in our own country, we are taking important steps towards democratic renewal. In all honesty, this is my favorite chapter from the coalition agreement. I am not entirely objective in this, but I am glad that a number of breakthroughs are being formulated in this area. Things that have been invented in this Parliament, such as the lobby register and the citizens' initiative, will also be rolled out in national politics. We are throwing the windows and doors of our Parliament, not the parliament of the government, but ours, 150 people's representatives, open to citizens and to the mayors of this country. That's the government statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u30	Mr Francken would like to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u31	Mr President, Mr Calvo, I respect that you take the floor here after the difficult period you know. Personally, you are disappointed too, if I understand correctly. Of course, more are disappointed in politics. That's part of the job. So, in that sense, respect for you taking the floor. It's a pleasure for you. That makes you a great politician, I think personally, even though we have often disagreed in recent years. Apart from that, I have a few comments to make. You say that migration policy must be removed from the tough statements. We're going to do things differently, humanely. Mr Mahdi has two main objectives: the new immigration code and more return. I do not think it is right to say that one only pays attention to that human aspect when one says at the same time: 'We need to organise more return. That's what I get to be dealt with." Now I have a question in that regard. I hear that the Bossuyt report, which is not mentioned in the coalition agreement, is being whispered in the corridors and also by journalists. The inhabitants, on which so much has been done, are not in the coalition agreement. But it is whispered from CD&V-corner that they will come anyway. You can read it in 316. I read it briefly: "The detention for forced return must be limited to the shortest possible duration. The government is examining all possibilities to further reduce the average detention time and to increase the efficiency of return policy. So far, so good. In the same way, the government is taking measures to prevent the removal from being prevented by a manifest lack of cooperation. Does your group, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, share your negotiator's view that the bill or the bill on residence permits, as it now stands in the Chamber, will be approved by the government, yes or no? I'd like to know, because for CD&V it's yes, but what is it for Green-Ecolo? That's a very interesting question. How do you read that passage? Can I conclude from this what CD&V journalists are whispering, namely that they are going to get there? Is that also your reading of the coalition agreement? You were there, I wasn't. Secondly, with regard to humanitarian visas, I think it is a bit of a faint remark, of course, because these humanitarian visas have happened with a resolution on the rescue of Syrian Christians, as you know very well. We're not gonna do that whole story again. That, I think, has gone very well. There's a lawsuit going on, and we'll see what comes out of that. You also say that there will also be attention to resettlement. I started it as a secretary of state. It is not even true what you say: resettlement projects were launched under my mandate, with the Syrian civil conflict as the cause, to say that we should also help those people. We must also be humane in this respect. So that comment really doesn't make any sense in practice. That you're going to continue, fine, but it's not right that I wouldn't have.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u32	Again I am going to try to find the balance between a number of general lines and an answer to the questions, and enough room for the second round as well. Firstly, what you are saying is true, you did indeed have ambitions in the area of resettlement, and in that sense it is not a radical trend break. What is a trend break is that it is also our absolute conviction to realise those ambitions in practice, a stick horse by my colleague Wouter De Vriendt. Secondly, as for the previous government, it is indeed our ambition to write a migration code. In recent years, you have written many books as a politician. You've been on a lot of tours with that, too. What you failed to achieve is to draw up that migration code. It is, of course, a very complex fact, I acknowledge. That is why, I think, it is logical that this ambition, which you have already expressed, should reappear in this coalition agreement. Thirdly, you also say that the return is part of this coalition agreement. That's right. And that's the hardest story, the hardest part of the exercise. For us as a green family, but I actually think, I actually hope, for every politician. At the same time, however, we must all recognise that a correct and humane return policy is the culmination of a correct and humane asylum and migration policy. And you can see that in this coalition agreement. So that attention to return does not embarrass us, that is also part of our political programme. That sometimes embarrasses us a bit as a human being, which makes us as a human being doubt and waver, but that is clearly part of a balanced migration policy. Finally, you have read, as I have read, that there is no passage in the coalition agreement: 'We shall simply implement and vote on the legislation before us in Parliament on residential entrances.' In this respect, the coalition agreement is clear. If it were in the text, you would certainly have noticed that. And for the rest, I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to further develop the policy in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a classic debate of questions and criticism towards the government. That's kind of lame, actually. This should also be a debate of initiation and leadership as a Parliament. As far as I am concerned, this is not just a debate on the government's plans, but it should also be a debate on the plans of the political groups in Parliament. In fact, we must recognise, and that is not to attack the government, that many important measures from this coalition agreement were born in this hemisphere, because then we were elsewhere in Parliament, from the parliamentary work of recent times. I am not going to go over them all, but very often Parliament has delivered the mustard for this coalition agreement. The additional resources for the care it will sound like music to Mr Hedebouw that I mentioned it was a parliamentary decision that is confirmed in the coalition agreement. The social energy tariff was a proposal from MEP Van der Straeten; Minister Van der Straeten continues to work on it. The extension of maternity leave: there were legislative proposals by Mr Willaert, but also by Mr Lachaert, parliamentary initiatives which were already advanced. Linking conditions to support measures was born in the Federal Parliament, out of the interaction between different groups, the Red Group, the Green Group and the then Minister for Finance, our current Prime Minister. And it reappears in this coalition chord. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, let us continue on that momentum. In principle, it is going to be a very busy year for the Chamber of Representatives: there is the corona committee; there is the impetus and the presidency of Mr Wouter De Vriendt the Congo Committee, a historic task for our Parliament. There is the Committee on Technological Questions, led by my colleague Vanden Burre, where we can work together to find solutions in the fight against fake news and online polarisation. So let us also assume our responsibilities in this area: MEPs also determine the atmosphere in this country, and MEPs can also set lines. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is not just the government. The atmosphere in this country, that's not just the government. Democracy, we all are, all parties from executive to legislative power.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u33	Mr Calvo, I would like to return to what you said about parental leave. There have indeed been some proposals on the table in Parliament for some time now. One part of these proposals is that paternity leave would not only be extended, but would also become mandatory. Then I would like to know whether you think that is fair for families, who, I think, are mature enough to organise themselves. If fathers are required to take leave, they are actually entitled to their income, because the benefit they receive instead of the wage is lower than the wage they work for. If, in that line, we go further on the families, then I have another question about corona parental leave. This proposal is also on the table in Parliament. It was only discussed last week. Basically, any parent whose child has to stay home from the classroom, not because the child is ill but because the classroom is closed, has the right to take up temporary unemployment, which is actually granted by the employer in normal circumstances. You are now making a right in these proposals. Add to that that you also open the right to parents whose sixteen-year-old son has to stay at home throughout the quarantine period. Do you think that is a social way of dealing with our families and our social security, whose affordability is under pressure anyway? I don't think it's fair to do that sort of thing. But I'd like to know what you think about that. My final question is about these leave schemes. Corona has made sure that some leave schemes have been added. Corona parental leave is one of them. The government agreement also states that this will be simplified. Then I'd like to know which leave arrangements you'd like to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u34	Thank you, Mr Anseuw. Mrs Lanjri, it is a question for Mr Calvo. It is not an answer to what Mr Anseuw says. I was a little strict before, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u35	I shall put a question to Mr Calvo. Do you know, Mr Calvo, that Mr Anseuw is completely wrong about two things...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u36	No, Mr Calvo, please continue...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u37	Mr Anseuw has mixed up two issues: quarantine leave and corona parental leave. That's two different things. I thought you'd know that difference by now. Apparently not, colleague! I'll explain that to you in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u38	Mr Lanjri, it is impossible for me to check whether the N-VA is wrong in every case. That's impossible for me. Of course, that has to do with my somewhat limited knowledge of the file, but also with the many times that group dares to propose things crooked and crooked. But I can answer your question in full, because I had the same impression as you did in your speech. I am going to try to respond briefly to some of Mr Anseeeuw's questions, but again without making the thematic debate superfluous. We are indeed looking in this coalition agreement for concrete solutions for people facing ill children in corona time. For me, this is also a part of social security: social security is not only a story of funding and pennies, but is also a story of quality as far as we are concerned. So I am glad that such measures also appear in the coalition agreement. Secondly, automation. You know it's about my colleague Evita Willaert's bill. As the Greens, we are in favour of automating birth leave. That's not what the coalition agreement says. But that is also normal, not all of our programme is in the coalition agreement. But at this point, I think there is a very important trend: as in France, we say that people should not work after the birth of a child, then people should be with their children. And that is as important as contributions to social security, which is actually even more important. Colleagues, I return to my discourse. I just said that letting the country run is not just a matter for the government, but is a matter for all of us. I would therefore like to make an appeal. We should not just complain and see about the participation in Parliament's coffee room or in our books and newspapers. We must also take matters into our own hands as Parliament. We must also be honest that Parliament needs a new dynamic, that we need to dynamic and modernise our parliamentary democracy. Including, and Mr Leysen will be delighted to hear, our procedures. We need to make our parliamentary work more agile and digital. It's not gonna work to meet here all the time, unfortunately. However, we must make sure that we bring Europe more to the national parliament in the near future, that we no longer give the impression that we in the Chamber of Representatives are releasing all legislation or that Belgium is an island. Let us also give parliamentary democracy a new impetus in this area and bring Europe more to the Chamber. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to suggest in all openness a concrete approach to cooperation between Parliament and the government. I hope you are somewhat open to that, because it would be embarrassing if you rejected that outstretched hand. This concrete approach could be as follows. Following the government declaration there will be policy papers from the ministers, a deepening of that government agreement. And classic is that a marathon, a exhaustion stroke with questions and answers, and then actually let's be honest let's just go to the order of the day. "Thank you, thanks for your questions, but we have a policy paper, which is actually okay." That is my experience over the last two legislative hours. While sometimes brilliant but often good suggestions are made in Parliament. Hence my suggestion, Prime Minister, to the ministers of your government to work with two versions. Two versions of their policy paper. The first with their own convictions, with their own plans and a deepening of the coalition agreement, and the second after the parliamentary debate, in which the opposition is obviously not said to be right. Of course, the opposition is not always right. I hope, however, that it will be bold and courageous to say that good things have been said here, also by the fellow Members of the N-VA, also by the fellow Members of the PTB. I cannot oblige you, but I hope that you will find it an interesting idea to make a second version of the policy notes, an enrichment, a policy paper that is not only from the minister in question, but also from the committee as much as possible. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must dare to do such things, which, in a new era, also includes openness and curiosity. That is, by the way, the only way for this colourful coalition to survive: openness, curiosity and vulnerability. To be honest about compromises and to confess that some people who read other books also see interesting things and hence (it may sound a little bureaucratic, but I think it is politically very valuable) two versions of the policy notes. A second suggestion may sound even more bureaucratic, but it would not be bad to streamline things: a regulatory agenda, also something that is being used here in this Parliament. A regulatory agenda that provides an insight into the legislative work being prepared, which anticipates it, which ensures that there is enough time, but also sufficient time, that there is not too much time to prepare legislation, that it does not remain too long. That could be a second suggestion, a regulatory agenda that provides insight into what will come, what we are trying to work together on, in an efficient and open way. Mr Prime Minister, I am not going to press again, that would be a bit exaggerated, but I do not think I really need to convince you of that; perhaps of the concrete approach, but not of that mindset. I think you're open to that, that you're open to doing politics in a different way. You have also shown this in your first statements. That is why the suggestion that we should come up with a concrete work programme for Parliament and the government, beyond the delusion of the day. I would also like to say a few words to the opposition. I can tell from experience that opposing is fascinating, and that is important, that must be done. However, I would like to invite colleagues from the opposition to put the right focus in this area. By the right focus, I don't mean my conviction; I don't mean that you simply have to accept the coalition agreement. However, I would like to invite you to develop the right arguments anyway, because the right arguments actually make the debate better and more spicy, while some of the arguments and mantras we have heard over the past few years are not impressing me, Mr Francken. The whole story that this coalition would be illegal, that it would not represent the Flemings, does not impress me at all. So I would like to invite you to make other arguments in that regard. And why doesn't that impress me? If you look at the figures, ladies and gentlemen, this Vivaldic coalition has a majority in nine out of ten provinces. If you look at the figures, you will find that this majority, these parties, obtained 25% more votes than the sum of the opposition. Criticism of the content is okay for me, a volonté as far as I'm concerned: let them come. But it cannot be said that this majority is not legitimate. This majority has legitimacy, this majority is a product of democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u39	Mr Calvo, if you have achieved a defeat like yours, I understand, of course, that it is more interesting to forge coalitions where the Flemish majority is not important, especially if that was the result of the election of the Parliament. This was the result of the parliamentary elections. That's not fake news! This is how the Flame voted and the result is a government that is purple-green in impact, with the dominance of those purple and those green tones. As De Standaard said yesterday in her analysis, this is mainly a green and red chord. If such an agreement is concluded with a minority on the Flemish side, we will continue to press charges in the coming years. We'll keep doing that. As Mr De Roover said earlier, we ourselves made a Swedish coalition with a minority on the French-speaking side. That wasn't easy. And before that there was again a minority on the Flemish side. I think we should learn some lessons from what has happened to the elections there all these times; it is important that we try to forge a majority along the two sides of the language border. That is why the historic agreement between the N-VA and the PS, in which I did not believe in the long term, finally came. That was an important historic step. That will have to come; if it is not now and it will not be now, then it will be in a number of years. But that agreement with a broad majority along the two sides of the language border must have the ambition to put this country effectively in a different fold. We will continue to fight for this, and we will continue to fight for it, from Opgrimbie to De Panne, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u40	Mr Francken, two things. One, you can't say you didn't have the chance. You've been negotiating longer than my party, and it's only because that construction didn't succeed in bringing this government to fruition today. I have always said two things in all my statements. I believe that a Vivaldic coalition is the best way to give this country a future. But equally, always, in all my interviews I didn't give as many as other politicians during this formation I said that a purple-yellow construction also has a number of advantages, something that might also offer perspective on stability. However, in the negotiations we have had to establish that there was and is not a potential benefit. You're saying we should do that by 2024. That would be a very long time to negotiate an agreement, even longer than you have taken in the past. You can't know what happens in 2024. I don't know. We'll see about that. And actually, I don't care at all. I am not interested in the election results of 2024 at the moment. Zero. I could now get my statistics on how many seats which group has won and lost, but that will probably sound too partial and too party politics, and I really do not want to do that today. But I would like to say, Mr Francken, that it is an express choice of my group not to be working on the elections of 2024 today, to deal today with people's problems, to write a government agreement today. I am skipping a number of things, but what I do not want to skip is indeed the Community part. As far as I am concerned, Mr De Roover, that should have been an empty sheet. In all honesty, that should have been an empty sheet, because I do not think that this is the top priority at the moment. And do you know why there is a chapter with substance and volume? Because there are parties who have negotiated and have said: we are not only going to declare that we are defending state reform, we want to do so. And those are the co-workers of CD&V, and that's sometimes caused... You may applaud for that, because they are actually taking a very difficult choice. They're taking a risk. They are brave today, but they have negotiated at the table with the prospect of a state reform. Article 195 is part of this coalition agreement. Article 195 will be subject to revision. That was also the case in the atoma writing of the previous government. That atoma writing wasn't done, and everyone knows why. Because that government has fallen over a non-binding UN migration pact. And what my colleague Verherstraeten has done...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u41	Finish your reasoning, but I have Mr De Roover and Mrs Pas. You didn't expect anything else, did you, Mr Calvo?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u42	I'm disciplined, when a chairman speaks, I listen. What I wanted to say, what I appreciate: Mr Verherstraeten and I have a different conviction about the future of Belgium. But what I do appreciate is that he has come to that table and fought at that table, for example for the revision of Article 195, to declare it open. To do something that didn't work out in a government with the N-VA. What I actually think is even better as a metaphor for what this coalition wants to do in terms of the institutional, in terms of the future of Belgium, is what is at the bottom of page 69 and at the top of page 70. I know the history of the Flemish Movement less than the fellow citizens of the N-VA, but I know that the Flemish Movement has long existed, that the Flemish Movement also has an important merit in the development and emancipation of Dutch language and culture. But what has never been achieved, not in a government with the People's Union and not in a government with the N-VA, is to give Flanders the chance to celebrate its own regional holiday. There's hanging at my house. That won't be a surprise. No Flemish Lion. Not even a tricolor flag, but not a Flemish Lion. But I think it is a very good idea that we should give regional entities the chance to celebrate their regional holiday. And why, colleagues? Because this majority wants to tell you that you can be perfect and Fleming, and Belgian. That you can celebrate perfect and Flanders, and at the same time celebrate Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u43	Mr President, Mr Calvo, right on that last point: you can be perfect, and you can be Fleming and Belgian, and European and world citizen, as well as man and... civil servant. You could be anything. And of course, we're more than one thing, thank God. What we are talking about is not whether your identity can be multiple. We are talking about the question of whether there should be full-fledged public authorities everywhere. I understand that you, belonging to a party that quite believes in strict regulation and the patronizing of people, like to have many governments: a strong municipality in a strong Flanders in a strong Belgium in a strong Europe with a strong world government, in such a way that no one can breathe freely. But your plea for a multiple identity should hopefully not be a plea for a transitional regulation, a number of governments, and that is the difference between the two of us. You refer to the coalition agreement and that is what we are talking about, and you refer to the courage of CD&V. Things are being looked at without taboo. You said you'd rather have a white leaf. It is incomprehensible that you still do not realise that this status quo is absolutely a problem. Yeah, you'll probably be the last. But my question to you is: does this also open up to you the possibility of re-federalising certain things? I think I know the answer and then we will not remain essential in the situation as we know it today, with a few chunks up and a few down, in such a way that the cat box in which no one finds his way remains fundamentally untouched? Would you answer that? Does that go in the two directions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u44	Mr President, Mr Calvo, I am not surprised that you find no argument for the democratic legitimacy of this government. You say that does not impress you, but the Flemings, a lot of Flemings, who have never voted so Flemish and right on 26 May 2019, impresses them that there is no Flemish majority in this government. Every time they vote, they vote more Flemish and right-wing, and each time they get a policy determined by left-wing free-trade parties that goes completely against this signal they gave with the elections. So it doesn't impress you, doesn't impress that voter. That's what's keeping the voter awake. Secondly, as far as your state reform is concerned, you preferred to leave a white leaf. As far as the lack of commitment to results in this coalition agreement is concerned, it doesn't really save much. I have two specific questions for you. A democratic debate is planned on state reform. That is what the government agreement says, a debate with citizens, with civil society, with academics, you name it, but also a dialogue with political representatives. And then my question is binding if you are and if you always imagine what political representatives that will be. Are these only the majority parties, or will they also be the opposition parties? It seems wise to me to involve the opposition parties in this, because if you are serious about going to state reform, you will still have to work towards two-thirds of the population. My second question concerns the specific arrangements. You say that Article 195 will be on the list, but that is the list that the government is going to make of articles that are subject to revision. What I want to know from you is whether any agreements have been made between those government parties to effectively vote that list in Chamber and Senate, to publish it in the Belgian Official Journal. Those concrete agreements are not contained in the coalition agreement, but without these essential elements, these articles will never be declared subject to revision. So a very specific question: have they been agreed on? Because if there aren't, it's an empty box in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u45	Mr President, I had a question, of course, in a different tone, and certainly with a different content. The whole text deals very smoothly with the institutional plans. You can feel that the discussions have been hard. In one place, the text becomes concrete. In one place, it is clearly stated that in the four years ahead, regionalisation will continue: that is for health care. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is one point in the COVID crisis, is it that the whole world looked at Belgium and wondered what we were doing, with nine ministers? What are they doing to have so many meetings, coordination meetings? Just because your virus doesn't stop at the language line, that just goes on. And so I do not understand why Mr Calvo in this coalition agreement... Then why didn't that actually remain a white leaf? Because the only point on which everyone is clear in Belgium is that we should not go any further towards regionalisation, that is health care. And that is precisely the point in the coalition agreement, really, I cannot understand that as a left-wing and solidarity party.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u46	Mr Hedebouw, you know that I have a rather strong opinion on the future of Belgium. In all honesty, if I had been asked a few months ago whether health care should be re-federalised, I might have answered yes. But in the meantime, by speaking more about it and thinking about it, I think the answer should be more nuanced. In the field of health care, there are also arguments to seek greater coherence and clarity at the level of the federated entities. With Frank Vandenbroucke on the buttons, that file is in good hands. He is a convinced social democrat who is aware of the importance of solidarity. You don't have the monopoly on that interest. There are still people in this Parliament. Someone who can at the same time make the institutional system a little easier. I think that we should have that debate without taboos, and that is also the promise of this majority. Secondly, my phrase around the white leaf was perhaps a little too pronounced. You should not regard it as a provocation, which may also be a little nuanced. However, I welcome the fact that this majority says that we are going to have the democratic debate first and then formulate the conclusions. In recent state reforms, ladies and gentlemen, this has too often been reversed. Then everyone said: "The state reform, that's my program." Then we often tried to reconcile these irreconcilable programmes. Then you get a dragon from a state reform. I would really like us to work without taboos. But if you ask us that, Mr De Roover, you should actually show that same attitude. And then I think you should acknowledge that as long as Belgium exists, there are also arguments to bring certain things together again. We do not really know today what the best solution is, and I think that is yet another sign of curiosity and openness. Curiosity and openness that politics needs. So, yeah, we're gonna have a debate first. Yeah, we're gonna listen to academics, experts, citizens... Yes, we are going to discuss the modalities between the parties and the political groups, Mrs Pas. We didn't talk about that. I don't know. We'll find out. I'm sure we'll be able to formulate that. However, I welcome the fact that this debate is taking place first. Thirdly, you are quoting the legislation well. It is true that an article can only be revised if it has been voted on by both the government and the Chamber and Senate. But I'm a man of my word. Article 195 has been explicitly included in the coalition agreement at the request of the colleagues of CD&V, and so my group will always vote in the Chamber and Senate for the amendment of Rule 195, regardless of the political circumstances. We can't say that today, but we are going to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u47	On that point, I have Mrs Depoorter and I suggest that you repeat your speech, because you will also have to allocate your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u48	Mr Calvo, your answer kind of triggers me. I'm very curious how you actually see it. We were talking about those nine health ministers, of which seven were Walloon, one was Flemish and one was Federal. Mr Hedebouw has said this very well, but he has forgotten that there is a very serious Community dimension to it. How's the government? When I read the various press releases, I hear regionalization, territorialization, investigations, and immediately the clock is ten years away. How will today's patient feel about that? You're growing in the right direction. You're growing into a tailor-made care. But what are you going to do about it today? What is your solution to this COVID crisis today, in which we need a strong health policy and in which the competent minister must be able to take decisive action? I don't hear that around here. I'm hearing tension. I'm hearing different opinions. I hear the academics. You could have done this for ten years, because it has not been too fragmented since today. It's been shredded for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u49	Mrs Depoorter, in all honesty, the reply to your question is quite obvious. It can be very simple party politics. You say: yes, you could have done that for ten years. I checked it again. For the past ten years, my party has been less part of the majority than yours. You have not done that either, but you cannot blame me for not working on it. And now we're going to try to make that ambition clear in the coalition agreement, so that it's easier and clearer. These are going to be very interesting debates. I return to my discourse. This is part of a broader institutional exercise led by two ministers. And again, I have no problem admitting that, and I think that we should be more honest about that, and it is, among other things, and above all, at the request of my fellow Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, that a number of things have been included in the coalition agreement. Again, I am not going to give too many lessons to the opposition, nor have I been guided by the suggestions made by the majority parties in recent years, but I am going to make another suggestion: try to be honest in the definition of this majority, the composition of this government and the content of this coalition agreement. For I notice that fellow Members of Parliament of Flemish Interest and of the N-VA consistently talk about purple-green. I'm a purple-green kid. I wrote letters to ministers from the purple-green government in 1999-2003. I was 12 or 13 years old at the time. I wrote letters to Verhofstadt, Stevaert, Mieke Vogels, Vera Dua. Steve Stevaert sent me a signed photo and Mieke Vogels a party program of 300 pages of the then Agalev. I like purple-green. But let me be clear: this is not a purple-green government. This isn't a purple-green government, so don't call them that. This is a Vivaldic coalition, with respect to all political parties that are part of it. With the contribution of the Christian Democrats. And I am pleased with that input, because I think that our country can also use a shot of Christian democracy. So don't call it purple-green, but call it Vivaldi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u50	Mr Anseuw, that is the fifth interruption for your group. I'm just noticing. Mr Calvo will then conclude his speech, otherwise he will be over his speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u51	Mr Calvo, you have to apologize to me and to my group. We will never be able to call this government the Vivaldi government. Out of respect. You speak of respect. We also do this out of respect, and for the composer Vivaldi, who has written wonderful music. That is why, and because of this gathering of false nuts, we can never call you a Vivaldi government. The project is also a purple-green project. And there's nothing you can do about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u52	Mr President, I think that speech was prepared. I do not immediately see the connection with the last part of my speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the work planning and phase-out for this government. The short-term requires a great deal of attention at the moment: the short-term management of the corona crisis and, above all, its socio-economic consequences. That is a great deal of work, Mr Prime Minister, because we believe that the link between the short-term and the preparation of reforms is crucial. The crisis we are experiencing now is hard, it takes a lot of time and energy, but it must not be an excuse to continue to manage things for two or three years. No, this must be a reform government, too. I would like to encourage you to put these reforms in place in the short term, for example in the areas of taxation and the labour market. What's the trajectory, colleagues? In 2024, our country will be President of the European Union. I would like to see our country back in top shape in the first part of 2024, then we have to play in the Champions League. I would like to see the version Kristof Calvo or the version Theo Francken European flags hanging from De Panne to Opgrimbie at that time throughout our country, from Ostend to Arlen, and from De Panne to Opgrimbie. I hope that at that time it is very clear, through government policy and the position of Belgium in Europe, that our country shows leadership and takes a leading role in the European Union. Colleagues, this plea for reform is not a plea for revolution or radicality. I'm a possibilist. These are people, politicians or thinkers who embrace big ideas, but try to divide them into viable ideas, into concrete steps. Mr Hedebouw, this avoids the disappointment with which revolutionaries often burden us with. Because if you promise the revolution, often the standstill is the result. The coalition agreement is not my full programme, let alone my social vision for 2030. But I don't think they're gonna do a good job until they're politicians. That really is not a reproach for your vision, strength and power of imagination. But the power of imagination must always be confronted with the inconvenience of the compromise, with the search for feasible concrete steps. That is what this coalition agreement does. It's not a tabula rasa, but it's a new beginning. I believe that this is an obvious choice for those who have responsibility today, for whom today has the honour of being a minister or for whom has the honour of being a representative of the people. That responsibility is particularly great. Either this government or this legislature is the first of a new era, or the last of the old. Either we can convince people once again that society is makeable, that politics can mean something. Or you can actually predict that anti-politics will prevail. I hope for the first. I hope that this government, in this majority and this legislature, is the beginning of a new era, of a new policy. Because of corona one can heal, but the question is how much longer does politics remain ill? Are we going to make sure together that we not only make the diagnosis, but that we also prescribe the medicine together? That we're gonna get a new policy together? Colleagues, the corona crisis has shown that every solution comes from cooperation between hospitals, between scientists, between citizens and between companies. And that's actually true in our style. Let's face it, there are no major parties left. In fact, the largest groups in this House are rather small parties from an international perspective. But even in those circumstances, with rather small parties, in a fragmented landscape, it must be possible to move beacons. Even small parties are capable of great things if they are willing to join forces. Colleagues, there is rightly a great deal of praise and enthusiasm for the people sitting here: people like Sarah, the first Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities and Diversity, a young 30-year-old who is super committed. People like Vincent, Sammy and Thomas: with these people a new generation enters the government. There are also scientists and experts such as Petra and Professor Vandenbroucke: they are coming to strengthen policy implementation. The diversity of our country is for the first time really around the executive table. This gives people hope, because they feel represented and recognized. Colleagues, turning hope into concrete actions is the necessary next step. It's not gonna be easy. And I understand the skepticism. And there's even cause for scepticism. But it is an interesting time to do politics. It is an interesting time to be a minister and a Member of Parliament. Any politician who has that privilege must now, at this time, be prepared to take risks. To kill taboos. At a time when everything changes, politics must also change. Nearby there is a building named after the Italian politician Spinelli, the building of the MEPs and policy staff. Spinelli once said: 'The way forward is never easy or safe, but must be followed'. And it will be followed. Prime Minister, your discourse yesterday gave people hope and perspective at a difficult time, and at a difficult time it also gave me energy. You asked us to trust you, and just because you trust us, we're going to give you that trust. Over the past few weeks, I've known you as a bridge builder, someone who's not as tight in ideology as I've ever imagined. And that's why I think it's a good thing you're leading this team. Because this coalition agreement is going the way forward, that is a compliment to the colleagues of the sp.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u53	Colleagues, let's move on. Mr Laaouej normally has the floor now, but someone is going to ask you another question, Mr Calvo. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u54	Yes, that could be, Mrs. Van Bossuyt. At some point one must have respect for people who want to ask a question and interrupt, but one must also have respect for someone who wants to develop an argument, and should also be given the opportunity to do so. I think there have been five interruptions in total to Mr Calvo's intervention of half an hour, so I will give you the floor now. But I don't get it. I would now like to close this section and Mr Calvo's speaking time has been exhausted. He's got an hour overall and he's spoken for half an hour. That hour and a half is up to Ecolo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u55	Mr President, it is only now that I have intervened because I have been waiting for Mr Calvo to address the issue of the nuclear trip. I gave him time to develop his speech because I was convinced that the subject would be discussed today. He has talked about it every week during the last two parliamentary hours, and he has said when exactly that would be. Unfortunately, I have to say that, for reasons unknown to me, he is anxiously avoiding the issue, that he does not clarify when the nuclear trip is to take place, and that he does not answer the question that is burning on everyone's lips: is this really attuned to the operator? Is it even possible to postpone this decision until 2021? Can the core exit still be reversed, or is that precisely the intention of Ecolo-Green? I am surprised that Mr Calvo does not wish to discuss this issue. That's at least as telling for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u56	To be continued, no doubt. It is 12.15 p.m. and we have heard two speakers, so to move things forward, I now turn the floor to Mr Laaouej, Group Leader.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u57	Mr President, first of all, I would like on behalf of my group, but perhaps other groups will join, thank the House services, who have been able to organise this temporary move to the European Parliament in record time. Let them be thanked for this because, as we know, it is not obvious to work this way in an emergency. I also wanted to tell you, dear Kristof, that the applause of a large number of your colleagues is obviously well deserved and, in essence, to the extent of the involvement that has been yours throughout the negotiations. Thank you, dear Kristof. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a majority and full-fledged government. Many rejoice, others, fewer, deplore it. Some even came to say that it was impossible. Others, at the extremes, rejoiced not to say that they were eating, either explicitly or slyly, of a political crisis that seemed to have failed. The outcome, we have it and we have it now clearly. Seven political and democratic formations have decided to live up to the challenges. The stakes of a country hit by a health crisis of rare magnitude, the stakes of a country whose population is tired of insipid quarrels, the stakes of a country which also needs to find itself in its vocation to be prosperous, solidarity and open. Seven political parties that also find themselves on unwavering adherence to democratic values and it is the first, and certainly the most important, of this new government. To take just one example - and what a terrible example - to lock children up with this new government, it's over and over. In the complex areas of asylum and migration, respect for human dignity will prevail in a democracy. The government that we will support brings together political forces whose vocation is to give the country a future, far from the separatist and selfish lubies. This too is a change. The future government will not be the sounding board of narrow nationalism or an ideology of rejection of others. Our new executive is dedicated to finding solutions that are beneficial to the population. Of course, I say it from the outset, it's inherent in our model...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u58	Mr Loones has asked for the floor for a break.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u59	Mr President, I was a little ahead of schedule. I would like to put a brief question to Mr Laaouej. You argue against negative nationalism and separatism. I have found a nice passage in the coalition agreement, which states that initiatives will be supported for meeting and better knowledge of the country's languages. Are you committed to ensuring that all your group ministers have as good as perfect knowledge of the country's languages in order to be able to conduct the debate fully in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u60	In my opinion, the first language that prevails in democracy, Mr Loones, is first of all the language of courtesy, and your group has already shown itself by attacks below the belt, which have not grown up their authors, targeting people with a sexist background, I say to this rostrum. So I'll tell you one thing, before I want to wait for ministers to speak one or the other language, first learn to show a minimum of courtesy and politeness in democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u61	Mr Freilich has the floor for a break. I would just like to point out that if you get the floor, you have to press the red button for the microphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u62	I haven't been in politics that long, but I remember the words of your own party a few years ago under the Michel administration, about the sound of the boots heard by Parliament. I think these words shocked a lot of people back then. And you dare to talk now about the way you speak in politics? I think you'd better put your hand in your own bosom.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u63	I will tell you what shocked me: it is that the day after the swearing-in of two ministers, the first thing they did was to go to the birthday of a former Nazi collaborator. That's what shocked me. What also shocked me was that a member of the former government allowed himself to find "good" a hierarchy of people according to an alleged "value added" linked to their origins. From a former minister in charge of asylum and migration, who found it fun to see an African helipaded by a helicopter like we wouldn't do with cattle. That's all that shocked me. To hear that Médecins du Monde and Médecins Sans Frontières were attacked in terms of values because they were involved in human trafficking. And the list is long. So I repeat: we do not have a lesson to learn on the ground from democratic values or respect for human dignity. Let's be clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u64	Thank you, Mr Laaouej, for the speed with which you have put down the whole story about the binding force, about the positive aspirations of this government for modernity and cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u65	Know, Mr De Roover, that I am called here to carry the voice of the Socialist Party. And I'll tell you one thing: we're not going to let anything pass! And this, whenever one of you will allow himself to denigrate and wilt what we are attached to, I repeat: respect for human dignity and the unwavering respect for democratic values, which make the cement of the new government. Mr. President, I'm on my way. For us, this new executive is dedicated to finding solutions that are beneficial to the population. Of course, I say it from the outset – because it is inherent in our political model –: the seven parties that make up the majority are not made of the same wood. It is a coalition government that relies on balances that everyone will identify, of course. But it is above all a government which has identified the key priorities and which, from the outset, will strive to work on them. The first of these priorities, of course, is health. The health crisis we are experiencing has shown the importance of our health care system, its qualities and its vulnerabilities. It's an opportunity for me to thank all the medical staff and all those who are mobilizing on a daily basis to reverse the pandemic. This unprecedented health crisis has highlighted the fundamental role of our health care, our hospitals and all the staff in the sector. This crisis is obviously not behind us: we must continue to manage it, with coherence and determination. The appointment of a commissioner to establish an essential link between scientific bodies, the federal level and federated entities, but also with citizens, will have to contribute to greater understanding, adherence and effectiveness in the fight against coronavirus. Even before this crisis, the needs of our health care sector were enormous, as were expectations for it. The crisis accentuated them and had at least the consequence or the merit – if I may say so – of bringing them to light in the eyes of each of us. The Socialists have been saying this for a long time: we must stop underfunding our health care. The accessibility of the quality of care, the viability of hospitals, the health of workers and caregivers, and the lives of people are at stake. It was a strong demand of the socialists, for health is our most precious good. We have made this demand, and it has been loud and clear, in this Parliament in recent years, and I am pleased, on behalf of my group, to see that these demands are being met in the government agreement. We have also made it possible to adopt, under the previous legislature or in any case in recent months, before the formation of the full-function government to be more precise, the adoption of a specific budget to enable better care for mental health care, thanks to parliamentary work. A budget of 200 million, which is now sustained in the government agreement, is obviously to be welcomed here too. With a very strong will, which we welcome, to give its rightful place to mental health care, whose needs have only increased since the crisis of the VOCID and the subsequent confinement. This has also been discussed, as we have again, through a parliamentary initiative, created a White Blouse Fund of 400 million last June to enable the recruitment and training of health workers to improve their working conditions. A budget that is now also sustainable by the government, in its majority agreement. It is therefore 600 million, plus another 600 million, to implement a social agreement, concluded in July, which will provide better remuneration and more training for health-care workers. So we are talking about 1.2 billion euros of immediate investments in health care. Even better, the standard of growth in the health care budget has been raised to 2.5 per cent throughout this legislature, a standard that should finally meet the growing evolution of needs while ensuring the quality and accessibility of our care. This crisis may have opened the eyes of those who, until then, were not convinced of the need to invest in our health care. This attitude is now untenable and the majority agreement shows that it now belongs to the past. In short, health care is largely refinanced, a first achievement which the Socialist Group welcomes. In the field of social justice, progress is clear: an ambitious plan to combat poverty, paying particular attention to child poverty and single-parent families. How, too, should we not pay tribute to the effort that will be undertaken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u66	Mr President, you had not seen me, but I would like to come back to the section on health care, which Mr Laaouej explained. I do not hear very much about the discussion I just had with Mr Calvo on regionalisation of care. My question to the PS is: what are your plans in this respect? How do you read the coalition agreement? Do you intend to renounce those seven Brussels and Walloon Health Ministers, or will that no longer be necessary in a few years' time? Are Flemish and Walloon patients receiving a health policy based on their needs? Will you take into account regional needs for the health objectives? Secondly, I think it is very correct of you to refer to the EUR 1.2 billion in additional resources for care. It is true that we have all approved that amount in Parliament. What you're collectively forgetting And I have already mentioned this on several occasions in plenary sessions....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... a cooperation between the extreme left and the extreme right. So you can't write this all over your head. Finally, I have a specific question for the socialist groups. There are a number of legislative proposals on the agenda for free care in Parliament. I have just heard Mr Calvo speak about the parliamentary commitments and about the fact that we, as parliamentarians, have to take matters into our hands. I couldn't agree more. However, I would like to ask you: how does the PS stand today with regard to the proposals for legislation on free care? Are you gonna go through with it? Is this in the coalition agreement? And how are you really going to specify accessible care for the target groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laaouej was already talking about health, so I wanted to let you go to the end. You are actually announcing what has already been decided, namely 1.2 billion for health, both for mental health, and in particular the reimbursement of psychologists, for the White Blouse Fund and for the social agreement that has been reached, but this has already been decided. And then, you tell us, "a 2.5 per cent historical health standard is added to that." First of all, let me ask you what this standard of health corresponds to? Is this historical in relation to needs? The most important thing, of course, is the needs of patients and in this area, the Office of the Plan clearly projected that for the needs, both to meet the ageing population but also to meet the needs of all new technologies, this standard was needed. So, in and of itself, we're just sticking to the needs. But where it gets a little more complicated, Mr Laaouej, it's to solve the equation on the budget, you tell us "we refinance, it's historical". I was, of course, able to see the budget table that the government has put at our disposal, we are clearly identifying for new policies for the whole government, not just for health, a budget of 3.5 billion, but if you make the small calculation that you just made – 1.2 billion in health care plus a 2.5% growth standard – that brings us to 4 billion by 2024 just for health policy. Now, you're announcing $3.5 billion for the government as a whole, which means, if we want to solve this equation - and I have no doubt that you have done so - that you are going first and foremost to make savings in health care so that we can actually make your standard of growth and then, Mr Laaouej, you should clearly explain it to us and, above all, explain it to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u68	I let the applause end. First of all, to respond to the regionalisation of health care. Yes, there is this perspective in the government agreement. At the same time, there is enough intelligence within the government to think that, before you ask yourself how you're going to go on the moon, why you have to go on the moon. And to wonder if to be effective, because basically our role is to be effective, is to meet the needs of people, is to ensure a health care system that meets the expectations of our fellow citizens. They want them to be treated well, at the lowest cost, under good conditions, that there is a distribution of the health supply that is as optimal as possible, taking into account the specificities of the regions. I am thinking in particular of rural areas, which also have in the operation of our hospitals, a management that allows - because every euro in social security is precious - every euro to be spent wisely, of course. So, if it appears that, in fact, it does require a review here or there, one or the other mechanic, to take better account of certain basins of life, which does not necessarily imply regionalisation, then the debate is open. And there will be this work that will be done within the government to see what needs to be done in this area as perhaps in others. For the rest, I am grateful for the parliamentary work, of course. The White Blouses Fund, we were several parties to wear it. I remember, by the way, some political parties that today claim but did not vote at the time when the amendments were tabled. I'm not going to make the list, not to be unpleasant. However, today these means are there and they are perpetuated. What the government agreement does is to sustain the resources that have been decided on the basis of a fiscal year through a particular vehicle which is the budgetary fund, which I recognize is an anomaly in the budgetary field, that is not how we should operate but, finally, that fund exists, the means are sustainable and that is what we must rejoice at. So, Mrs Fonck, I am very much surprised at your approach to public accounts, which says that since we have X billion in health care but we do not foresee it in a budget, we will therefore have to make savings in health care. As if there was a total leak between the state budget and the social security budget. I invite you to look at the first pages of the Court of Auditors' annual report, which contains a schematic structure of our public finances which shows all the flows that exist between the federal budget and social security, health care in particular, which implies, and which means above all that it is not necessary first to make savings in health care in order to refinance them, that would make absolutely no sense. For the rest, yes, I recognize that there has been very good parliamentary work and I am pleased that the government endorses all the initiatives that have been taken by Parliament, which will say the opposite. Mr President, I will continue as there are no other questions. As far as the lowest social benefits are concerned: integration income, the income replacement allowance for disabled people and GRAPA, they will be increased by around 8 %, and this is outside the welfare and non-indexing envelope, I would like to point out. It's concrete and it's in the government agreement, of course it won't have escaped us. Access to the labour market will be facilitated for people with disabilities and the government will continue to avoid financial penalties for couples with a disability in one of its members, which is called the price of love. The agreement also provides for an increase in social benefits to go beyond the poverty line, which is known in a difficult budgetary context, but at the same time the political objective is clear and we expect the government to implement it. Social security is reinforced by the political agreement reached between the parties making up the majority. I take this opportunity to say that, with regard to 2.5%, I did not say the historic word at any time. What is historic is what Elio Di Rupo did and what the Verhofstadt-Onkelinx government team did when we raised the growth standard to 4.5%, it is indeed historic. Chairperson: Cécile Thibaut, Vice-Chairperson. President: Cécile Thibaut, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u69	Mr Anseeuw asked for the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u70	Mr Laaouej, I have two specific questions for you. Firstly, you refer to the document in the government agreement which states that social benefits are being increased. It is, of course, important that some benefits are still activating, not least when it comes to unemployment benefits. The Di Rupo government had the courage to introduce its degressivity in 2010. The question is, of course, whether you can confirm today that this unemployment benefit will not be increased without consideration. Degressivity, and hence the activating nature of this unemployment benefit, would be partly undermined. Secondly, you say that social security will be strengthened. A strong social security is, I think, important to everyone in the Chamber. There are, of course, different views about how to work there. In 2017, a law has entered into force whereby the Swedish Government has adapted the financing of social security. There are a number of principles contained in that law. For example, the State allowance is linked to the age of exit and to GDP. A second condition that has been included when it comes to concluding social agreements is that social partners should also be responsive. When they submit a social agreement to the government, they must also make proposals for compensatory measures when expenditure increases. Can you confirm to me, in the context of strengthening social security, that there is an agreement in the government that that law will be extended................................................................................................................. President: Patrick Dewael, Chairman. Chairperson: Patrick Dewael, Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Quickly, since Mr. Laaouej was aiming at me again and I did not want to interrupt earlier. Who here is talking about the historic refinancing of the standard of growth in health care? It is your party president, Mr. Magnette, whom I believe when he speaks. Moreover, that is why I have studied the government agreement on this point particularly carefully. For the rest, on the point you mentioned, we do not have a discussion on the way, the Court of Auditors, etc.You understood what I meant. The question was, of course, whether or not you were confirming that there were, in fact, in-house budget breakdowns of health care, and not a full envelope that comes, each year, in addition to the previous year. And on this point, Mr Laaouej – without wishing to hold a budgetary debate here, Mr President – and colleagues in the government and in Parliament, I will give you an appointment. I will be curious to see what will happen, because in your government agreement, between the lines, there is a lot of reading, especially about health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u72	Mrs. Fonck, I can't stop you from reading between the lines. I read the lines of the government agreement. As you say, we will find ourselves in budgetary debates, during which you will, of course, have every opportunity to ask all the questions you wish to ask and to see the breakdowns you already imagine. I am reading the government agreement and it is on the basis of the government agreement that I am speaking in this forum. For the rest, of course, I see what Mr Anseeuw is trying to make me say, namely that there is not a lot of things in it that were found in the programmes of a number of political parties like mine. Yes, what a scoop, Mr. Anseew, we are in a coalition government. I therefore assume the compromise, the agreement that exists today between the seven parties. It is not exactly what we wanted, it is true, but at the same time there are things that suit us very well, including the fact that balance is guaranteed. The fact that the growth standard is increased to 2.5%. The fact that, on a whole series of fronts, we are getting, together with a whole series of other parties which, of course, also take full responsibility for this agreement, the revalorisation of the lowest allowances to move towards the poverty line. Yes, we do. If you want to compare the PS program and the government agreement, we might spend the night there, but I'm not going to get into this game. I am replying to what is contained in the government agreement, which is already so, because there is real social progress in this government agreement and answers to the expectations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u73	Mr Laaouej, you are addressing the issue of compromises and it is clear that it is not possible to carry out its entire programme. Nevertheless, there is still a point where the Socialist Party has, over the last four years, made it clear that it was not just a programme point, but a really important point. I would like to quote your then president, Elio Di Rupo, who said in 2015 that "the Socialist Party promises to bring the pension back to 65, if the party returns to power". It was indeed a promise, een belofte. A little later, on May 14, 2019, the PS undertook to wage a fierce fight to return to the legal pension at age 65. A week before the vote, the question arises as to what conditions you are going to go up to the government, when I read that, according to Mr Di Rupo, on 16 May 2009, it is a sine qua non for the entry of socialists into a government. We are not here in the context of a "catalogue"-type programme that cannot be fully implemented. The Socialist Party did commit itself, on 16 May 2019, to a government only if the pension age was reduced from 67 to 65 years. How do you explain, Comrade Laaouej, such a betrayal of the principles you have sold to your constituents? My question is simple!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u74	Mr Anseuw, for I must also give Mr Laaouej the opportunity to continue his speech. That too is a right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u75	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr Laaouej, for the clarity you have provided. You did not say in your reply that the conditions for maintaining the balance of payments were maintained. Nor did you say that the lowest unemployment benefits will not be simply increased. This means that the door is open to making unemployment benefits less activating. In this context, this purple-green government aims paradoxically at an employment rate of 80% by 2030. There is no ambition in this area for the current reign, and we now know why. With regard to the question of balance, your answer also made it clear that these extremely expensive social agreements can just come back. In addition, there are expensive invoices and we all know who they are to be paid for: of course, those are the people who work, save and undertake, and in this country they are still mainly the Flemings, whether you like to hear it or not. But we thank you for that invoice. That is, of course, one of the many reasons why we cannot support this purple-green coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u76	Let's try. As I said to Mrs Fonck earlier, we can indeed begin to over-interpret what is in a government agreement and also over-interpret what is not in it. Of course, I am not going to go into rhetorical quarrels that make no sense. I think there is one thing that should govern our debates, to stick to the facts. So I'm going to try to stick to the facts. In the same way, I recalled earlier that it is of course the health care needs that will be met that will determine how they will be refinanced, but I cannot say more than what is in the government agreement, which is already not bad. To reply to Mr Hedebouw: dear Comrade Hedebouw, when I was young and – as you remember, too, it was a common knowledge – our late Comrade Hans Krammisch was trying to recruit me to the PTB, he gave me your Solidaritys of the time. And I kept them, because I am an archivist – that is, I confess a defect, I am a great archivist. In the Solidarity of the time, we read: "the PTB, when it is in government, will nationalize the Belgian economy". When I read the Solidary, we weren't talking about a tax on wealth, etc. – a small contribution that is expected to raise a few billion dollars. No, no, no! It was said: "when the PTB will be in power, there will be no more great fortunes, because we will limit the fortune to a certain amount". I kept these archives of the PTB Solidarity. So, basically, dear Raoul, I think we need to show a little humility. We must be humble in relation to what is ideal in politics. Ideally in politics, it is the program we present to our fellow citizens, it is true. Then, at some point, in a country like Belgium, which operates proportionally, we have to deal with other political parties, especially when we don't have the absolute majority – which is very often the case, I inform you – but also when we have to be able to give the country a future, when there are separatist threats, nationalist threats, to ensure that there is enough stability, to respond to health crises, financial crises – remember Lehman Brothers in 2008: that's all that leads us today to make a coalition government. So we don't have the whole programme, but we have a lot of our programme, that's the answer I want to address.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u77	No, no, no ping-pong. Mr Laaouej has the floor. We are not at the House of the People!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u78	He's entitled to his reply. We are in democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u79	Mr President, Mr President, of course I agree quite well. It is impossible to carry out its entire programme. What is particular here is that the PS itself set this as a condition of participation a week before the elections. I think that's the problem. I think you made a mistake, the Socialist Party and the sp.a., to accept this, knowing that a huge part of the population opposes these 67 years, and not only in the left electorate. You were in a position of strength to defend all those people who are tired at work, who have really worked too hard, who don't understand why we keep getting them to work. You were in a position of strength. Based on the feedback we had from the negotiations, the 67-year-old question – and don't hesitate to contradict me in the room if I'm wrong – was not addressed for a second. I will return later to the level of pensions, but it was acquired from the start of the Vivaldi negotiations that the 67-year-old question would not be addressed. I think it's a fundamental mistake if we want to regain the balance of power – and I'm not talking about that of the Solidary 35 years ago – I'm talking about that of May 16, 2019. I think that point in particular should really have been a point of break-up. You will see that this question will resurface in the years to come, because the population still does not accept this anti-democratic decision of 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u80	Mr. President, I'm going to sue, but the truth has its rights, it's true. It is true that the point of the pension from 67 to 65 years was a fundamental point, just like the pension to 1,500 euros, like the financing of social security – which you don't mention –, the sustainability of the balance fund – which you don't mention – the fact that it also brings back respect for human dignity in the management of asylum and immigration policy, you don't mention it. You actually mention what you think is most important, I can understand it, and what is controversial, I can understand it too. However, I would like to say something very simple. [[Deciding to make its participation in the government conditional on an important part of the program, whatever it may be, when there is a compelling need to make a government because we are going through one of the most serious health crises in our history, when we have to take ownership of the pandemic management to ensure that it can definitely step back, when the workers you are talking about are saying to us, "Listen, we have to form a government as soon as possible, because it goes to waste water and because there is a populist threat in the country"... So yes, we take our responsibilities, and yes, we admit that on one or the other point of the program, however important it is, we have to be able to make a choice that is a corneal choice: to give the country a future or indeed to stop at programmatic elements, I repeat, as important as they are.]] That was our approach, we assume our responsibilities and that is how we will continue to function. Social security, I said, comes out strengthened, but I think I've already talked about it. So I'm going to be able to move on to the next chapter. As far as pensions are concerned, I have indeed seen the polemics here and there, the Twitter messages, the statements in the press. Neither will I change my line. I am sticking to the government agreement and the government agreement is talking about going, as far as a full career, to 1,500 net euros. I can't tell you anything else. For the rest, and indeed on elements of a budgetary nature, there will be budgetary appointments. But I just want to recall a little subtlety that has escaped many people. It is that you can never discuss alternative income without immediately mentioning the tax system that applies to them. With regard to replacement income, including pensions, there are tax reductions on replacement income, which mean that up to a certain amount of pension, you do not pay taxes because there is a tax reduction that allows you to absorb all or part of the tax you would have had to pay. I do not develop a few special cases, especially when there are income cumulations. But what does that mean? This means that, if the government – as he wrote – is also committed to avoiding the tax trap, it is quite possible, I repeat, to provide a large number of pensioners with a pension of 1,500 euros net on the basis of the means that have been set. So I must also mention, but I have already said earlier, the fact that we have obviously guaranteed in this government agreement 100% well-being. It is a major element of the government agreement, the welfare envelope, like social security, will no longer be a cash drawer in which we will use to fill the state's deficits. This, too, is a guarantee which is essential, as, moreover, the sustainability of the balance endowment. This means that this government's objective is clearly to ensure that everyone can be guaranteed quality health care without, at any given time, dependence on the country's budgetary situation or on the country's political context. This, too, is a major element of this government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u81	On the question of the pension at EUR 1,500, I think the projections are clear. From a budgetary point of view, if there were a net EUR 1,500, it would cost about 2.8 to 3 billion. It's the calculations. You are planning here 1.4 billion especially for this measure, so you should not turn around the pot on the amount that people will actually have. The clear claim of the social movement was 1,500 euros net and today, because you still forget to say and I don't think it's a detail for pensioners, the European Central Bank wants to keep inflation at 2%, so count that around 2024, you will be at a differential of 12, 13, or 14%, so basically, people lose 100 euros in purchasing power. And then, career time, it's still not a detail. As you know, the social movement does not put forward the 40-year-old claim for nothing. Why? Because 90 per cent of women and two thirds of workers do not have access to this 45-year-old career. For people, of course, the question is to be able to actually have a pension of 1,500 euros because we have calculated and many independent bodies have calculated it: it is the minimum to be able to live. So on this side, I find it a little unfortunate that you told me that you had to compromise, as I understood it earlier. "We had to compromise, we had to move towards." Allow me to express it, but the worm is a little bit in the fruit. Moving towards, so that is, we're going towards, but we're not saying we're going to get 1,500 euros. So, just tell the world of work, it's true, the "tender towards" implies that there won't be 1,500 euros net in purchasing power, but don't say carabistyles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Laaouej. Of course, we have all read the government agreement on the minimum pension of EUR 1,500. My colleague and group chairman Peter De Roover has paid sufficient attention to this in his speech. That's why I'm not going to go into it any further. I wonder what the ordinary citizen thinks of this whole discussion. And then I think first of all about Conner Rousseau's bomba. Of course, we cannot expect her to read the entire government programme, but she does, of course, read the newspapers. Me too. And then I try to imagine what she actually thinks of that and what it's all about. One politician says this and the other says that. There are also a number of experts involved in the debate. I would like to ask the following questions on behalf of Conner Rousseau's grandmother: the EUR 1,500, the minimum pension, is that gross or net? What's the deal with that? Who's entitled to that? What is the right target group? Who can claim the 1,500 euros? And then perhaps the most important question: will it start tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or from God knows when? Those are three specific questions. Finally, I would like to refer to an article from De Tijd, in which a former minister, who is now Minister again, warned this government about creating false expectations in the minds of the people. I would therefore like to conclude by saying: what guarantees can you give from your group, and of course from the government, that this promise of the minimum pension of EUR 1,500 will be made, and I am not talking about its payment at the end of the day, not an empty box, such as the Silver Fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u83	Mr President, we know the empty shells, the false promises, etc., especially in the fiscal and financial aspects of the previous government. I would remind you that you were in charge of finance, and that your minister's assessment was not very convincing and impressed no one. It was recalled earlier: six billion unfunded tax shifts, a balance sheet in the fight against tax fraud, so to speak, colourless, odourless and insipid. Today, you explain to us... It's important, when you want to do lessons, to be credible. I do not think you, the N-VA, are credible with regard to the sound financial management of the country – let it be clear. Secondly, it was not by distraction that the negotiators set out in the government agreement that there was a goal, at the end of the legislature, to be able to reach EUR 1,500 net. It is a parliamentary objective. At the same time, we know the budget. We know the budgetary context. With my group, I have very often tabled bills that sometimes involved spending, but also many bills that were to lead to more revenue. I am the first to tell you that this exercise is not easy and that budgetary conclaves will not be easy. I repeat: we go a little too fast when we think that the gap between the crude and the net is not reconciled. I explained it earlier with the tax dimension. I can also explain it according to the length of the career and I can still explain it for a whole series of other reasons. With regard to evolution, we can also talk about the welfare envelope and indexations, or even a range of other sources of funding. We cannot, as I said to Mrs Fonck earlier, consider that there is a perfect seal between social security and other aspects of our policies, particularly in the tax field. In fact, the analysis I am doing is corroborated by the Planning Office, which has already conducted simulations to see how the difference between net and gross income is justified in terms of replacement income. We can of course continue the debate here, but it is for this reason, I believe, that it would be interesting at some point to be able to ask ourselves with the figures, with the support, why not, of a whole series of institutions which will allow us to see more clearly what is known as fiscal bias and social bias, gross income and net income, as regards replacement income. Mr President, I can go on in this debate, but I refer to the government agreement and I consider, from this point of view, that there has been no renunciation, that there have been no false promises, Mr Hedebouw. There are goals and we will stick to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u84	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, I have to conclude from what you have just said about the pension at EUR 1,500 – net, gross, between the two, when? – that, in substance, in addition to what was written in the government agreement, we do not know very well what it will be. But what I would have appreciated from this government is that it says, basically, that it did not know, rather than that, barely the agreement reached, the president of the MR on one side, the president of the PS on the other, went to the television sets saying "Yes, it's net", "No, it's crude", with a show that, for the citizens, is totally unacceptable. There's one that says, "If we had wanted to make 1,500 net, it would have taken 3.6 billion more" and the other says, "In fact, that's not the case." What did we put in the money? Some say 2.1 billion, others say 700 million. The citizens watching just felt like you were still in the election campaign. That you do not know exactly when you are going to get there, or exactly how much, I can understand it; but then, be honest, because lure people as it was done, the first 48 hours of setting up this government, on the point of pensions, I find it totally indecent. When I hear of one another speaking of sincerity, honesty and political change, then I see what has happened on this point, but also on others, I tell you: frankly, it's pathetic. So at least be honest, because the reality is that you don't know exactly when, or exactly how much, between the net and the gross, citizens will have for the minimum pension for a full career.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u85	I think it's interesting to always look at yourself. You say that the N-VA in the government has also been unable to finance a number of things, such as the tax shift. Mr De Roover has already said that the tax burden under the Swedish Government has fallen. But the left always says that the tax shift wasn't fully funded. I come to a second point. You say that the objective of tax and social fraud, and especially tax fraud, has not been achieved. In any case, over the last 10 to 15 years, revenue from tax and social fraud amounts to between EUR 250 and 350 million per year. What are you guys doing? You put that in a very brief table that the Prime Minister gave us. I understand that some journalists have much more information, but this is very brief. Anyway, I read on line 29 that the fight against social and fiscal fraud, the ultimate final part of the budget, is being dragged back to ensure that the figures are correct during this legislative period, in four financial years, should yield EUR 2.3 billion! So you're saying that the N-VA counted itself rich. But what you are doing is much worse: you estimate a lot more revenue from the fight against social and fiscal fraud than we have ever dared to do, and you say that we have not always achieved our objectives. You know that there are a number of reasons for this, but we have brought in a lot more than before. But that remains between EUR 200 million and EUR 300 million per year. However, you are going to receive EUR 1 billion from the fight against tax and social fraud in 2024. Who believes that? Mr Laaouej, that will be very difficult. I wish the government good luck with that. We will certainly be able to support some of these measures, but I really do not think that this is realistic. That was a rush to make sure that the budgetary table is still a little bit correct. That's what it's been like for years!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u86	I suggest, however, that Mr Laaouej be given the opportunity to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u87	Mr President, I will respond quickly. I see that the Prime Minister also wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u88	You are responding to what the Prime Minister said, I presume.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u89	I haven't responded in a long time. But if there are total falsehoods being told, then I would like to intervene on that. First of all, in the budget table, tax fraud is referred to as 1 billion. Now you can have ideas about that: is 1 billion feasible or not? Is that totally out of proportion to other governments? The previous government, the Swedish, subscribed EUR 1.5 billion for fraud. Oh, come on. Be a little serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u90	You gave us a table yesterday, just before 2:00 p.m., just before your speeches. That was a deal. You did that, thank you very much. Line 29 speaks of 2021: EUR 200 million revenue; for 2022 it is EUR 400 million revenue; in 2023 it is EUR 700 million revenue and in 2024 it is EUR 1 billion revenue. So that is EUR 2.3 billion for the legislature, EUR 2.3 billion for the action plan against tax and social fraud! You have to be serious. These are your numbers. These are your tables! All the other figures are, of course, cumulative. That is also the case here!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u91	I am surprised that in a parliament with experienced Members of Parliament, former members of the government such as yourself, Mr Francken, I have to explain that you are not going to put together cumulative budgetary figures that rise year after year. What exactly are you saying here? Is this a kindergarten or something?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u92	Mr President, with this mistake as a beginner, I do understand better than ever that the previous Minister of Finance has been completely wrong in all the figures he has presented to us for four years in Parliament. If one does not make the difference between a trajectory and a cumulation in a trajectory, there is a real problem. Secondly, I would like to tell you why Mr Van Overtveld has completely failed in his assessment of the fight against tax fraud. The first step he took was to abolish the Anti-Fraud Coordination College. As he was told in Parliament, what was this Coordinating College – which is found in the government agreement, I was going to highlight earlier? It is simply to put around the table the departments of the tax administration, the Special Inspectorate of Taxes, the federal police services, the OECDFO, the prosecution, the anti-money laundering cell and the customs, to have all the expertise around the table, not to exchange information on concrete cases, but simply to coordinate their efforts, to exchange information on the major flows of fraud. There has been an effectiveness because with the Secretary of State of John Crombez, there have been unprecedented results so far in terms of performance and the fight against tax fraud. That is why there has been a failure in the policy led by Minister N-VA of Finance. I am not going to extend the debate on pensions without limits, but simply, Mrs Fonck, you are using words such as "indecency", "unhonesty", etc. I recalled earlier the link between replacement income and the tax system, because it all depends, of course, on the individual situation of the individual, the career and the situation of the household. This is going to be crucial to be able to reconcile the crude and the net. That is why, with precise figures and simulations, we will have to show how much we can guarantee for a very large number of pensioners an increase of more than 20%, and 200 euros for some pensioners. This is the difference between just being critical and working in favour of pensioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u93	I would like to address myself to the meeting. Mr Laaouej has been in the gallery for more than one hour, but has used 12 minutes of his speaking time. Everything else goes to interruptions. In the Conference of Presidents there was an agreement that interruptions would not be included in speaking time. But he's been in the stands for over an hour, and so to speak, he's only spoken 12.5 minutes. So everything else is interruptions and answers to those interruptions. Do you want this debate to take place in a reasonable time? If you think that is a debate, I can tell you that with the implementation of what I am going through this morning, we are going out here at 3:00 a.m. tonight without the debate ending. Is that what you want? I'm gonna call on you to use your right of interruption, but on the other hand, I'm gonna accept that... Mr Anseuw, you can stand there for half an hour. You're gonna get cramped.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u94	Yes, it is, Mr President. I don't get a cramp in my shoulder that easily. I'm a fervent crossfitter. I can recommend it to anyone. Having said that, I thought it was important to ask the Prime Minister another question. Because he has said something important: he has referred to a budget table, in which he talks about tax fraud, while the document itself deals with tax and social fraud. So I just want to know from the Prime Minister: is it just about tax fraud, as you said earlier, or is it about tax and social fraud, as stated in the document? That is my simple question, but not unimportant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u95	Mr President, I would like to return to what the Prime Minister has said. We have no ministerial experience, but we can read his tables. We see here that for Entity 1 in 2024 there will be a deficit of 3.4 % of GDP, which is for Entity 1. Entity 2 must be added to that, and the resources from the Walloon budget must be added to that. My question is therefore for you, Prime Minister, and for you, Mr Laaouej: how will you finance that gap in the budget? How will you keep public finances healthy in the long term? Because, Mr Laaouej, you are talking about the affordability of pensions, but with such a deficit of 3.4 % of GDP, and that is where entity 2 still needs to be added, you will never be able to keep pensions affordable in the long term. You must also say that to the Flemings, but also to the Walls.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u96	Voilà. I give the floor to Mr Loones, but I assume that there is a consensus that Mr Laaouej can end his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am really disappointed at the level of the debate and, above all, in the Prime Minister's reply, yet recently the Minister of Finance. As far as the tone is concerned, if we read the coalition agreement, it is the Fabletjes newspaper for us. There's a lot of letters on paper. But when you put it next to the budgetary table, you just see that the figures cannot be right and in the Prime Minister's reply it goes on the same line. If we look at the figures of social and fiscal fraud, of the revenue of a year, which is so high, three or four times higher than otherwise, then you can pretend that that is a structural income. And we also know how this budget is booked, but the reality is, of course, different. The reality is that every year on 1 January the numerator goes back to 0 and that it is going to be hard to deal with those tax files, to check them and to raise those cents up to and including all the court cases that follow. If you made 200 million last year, you could pretend to start again automatically this year from 200 million, but it is not. Every year that counter goes at 0, every year that is hard work and every year we will expect you to prove yourself and not count rich here. And that is the reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u98	Very briefly. I want to be correct with everyone. I was so surprised by Mr Francken's statement that I had indeed lost sight of the fact that it is both fiscal and social. But the tax system is many orders larger than the social system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u99	Mr. Laaouej, one more attempt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u100	[[always from his place in the assembly]] Thank you, Mr President, especially since Parliament's (European) Rules of Procedure do not allow, if I understand them correctly, glasses of water in the House. However, if there were to be a derogatory provision, I am an applicant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u101	You refused the gallery!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u102	That's right! [[laughter]] Mr President, in order to return to the path of my speech, I also wanted to focus a little on the goal – ambitious, we must welcome it – of achieving an employment rate of 80 % by 2030. We know it will be difficult, but we know at the same time that there is enough will on the government team to make it happen. Of course, we are also talking about the "zero unemployed" territorial government agreement, a method that will be tested and implemented; the training of workers, which will ensure that there is dynamism in what is called the labour market; the introduction of an individual right to training of five days a year and on average, which is essential; and then significant elements, such as the extended paternity leave. I would also like to tell you how pleased the PS group is to be able to see in this majority agreement a clear and clear commitment to the establishment of a true status as an artist. I hope that we will be able, at Parliament level, to give you the necessary support because a great deal of work has already been done. We are, of course, at the disposal of the government to move forward as quickly as possible. What we would also like to stress, with regard to employment and in the difficult context that we know, is that there is a staggering news and you know it as I do, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to have a thought here for the parents who, for many weeks, have been worried because they do not know if they will have a solution when one of their children is unfortunately affected by VOCID-19 or when there is a closure of nursery or school. That is why I would like to reassure them here, because we are going to provide them with quarantine leave, which was adopted this week in committee. I cannot help but note here that not all parties have supported this bill; I leave them to their responsibilities and let them explain to the parents that they will not have a solution if there is not the speedy passage of this bill, which is on the way. The budgetary context, as we have already mentioned, is difficult. I wish here that we could take a step backwards. For me, the difficult budgetary context is not today. I see the beginning of the difficulties we are experiencing on 15 September 2008, that is, the dark day of Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy and the beginning of a global financial crisis, which has seen the country's debt rise by more than 20 billion euros in a few days, because difficult decisions have had to be taken. At the very moment when we are beginning to see a positive inflection in the recovery of public finances, the health crisis of the coronavirus is coming, which has caused us to lose a large part of our economic substance – more than 8% according to the Office of the Plan and the National Bank – which has mechanically resulted in a loss of revenue and an increase in certain expenditure, and which puts us in this particularly complicated situation today. I would also like to draw the attention of those who think that we are not doing enough and say that to release more than EUR 5 billion in new measures was unexpected to me at the time when we started these negotiations. In these five billion, there are more than three billion euros of structural measures, mainly social measures, and more than one billion public investments, with the prospect of an ambitious recovery plan to finally revive common sense: a two-legged economy; of course, there is the supply and the necessary support for businesses, but there is also the urgent need for support for domestic demand, whether public or private. In this case, through this stimulus plan which will be targeted and will set aside a significant part of the energy transition, sustainable development and the economy of tomorrow – with, moreover, an ethical dimension because it will be inaccessible to companies which, in one way or another, do business in tax havens – I think that with this government there is a real turning point in the way of economic policy. That is why my group is particularly confident of this point of view. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of taxation, there are in the government agreement the contours, with a number of principles, of a tax reform, of which we obviously want it to be fair and effective, two main criteria that must govern any tax policy: effective, because it must be able to ensure that virtuous behaviour, particularly on the economic front, is provoked or not prevented; but at the same time it is fair, because it is important that our progressivity can be strengthened and that the redistributive effect of our tax system can be strengthened. There will be work to be done for the future Minister of Finance, who will first make proposals to the government and then present them to Parliament. Here too, Parliament is available for any exchange of views that can contribute to the most fair and effective tax reform possible. There is a clear principle in the government agreement: the broadest effort must rest on the widest shoulders. This is the very principle of contributory capacity and the cornerstone of tax justice. As we have said in parliamentary debates, the budget is certainly the most important event in our parliamentary life today. It must not be missed, and more rigour will be required. I mentioned earlier what the lack of precision in the figures can lead to as problems. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that a number of measures, which are aimed precisely at strengthening tax justice and making use of the richest, will make it possible to refinance health care directly. This is also an achievement which is not negligible. An important part is also devoted, and I welcome it, to the taxation of multinationals; there is a strong political will for Belgium. It is also a change to take initiatives at the international level to ensure that measures can be translated into our domestic law as quickly as possible to avoid tax optimisation and to give concrete expression to a principle that is very simple: a profit must be taxed where it has been achieved. That is why we believe that there are promising elements in this government agreement and that the Minister of Finance will have to be put into practice as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u103	Very briefly, Mr President. Mr Laaouej, you say that you want a fair contribution from those who have the greatest capacity or capital. But what exactly do you mean by that? Do you mean a security tax, a capital tax or a capital gain tax? That's what I'd like to know from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u104	From the moment it is a contribution to those who have the most important assets, we are obviously talking about the values, values which indeed constitute the heritage, which you can call capital if you prefer. That being said, the government still needs to clarify its terms and conditions, and I am not going here, out of loyalty to the government agreement, to anticipate the modalities that will be determined by the government and that will be presented, at the appropriate time, to Parliament. I am therefore not going to anticipate this debate on the modalities. The objective is in the government agreement, which I welcome. Because it also indicates that, clearly, we are emerging from a policy of austerity thanks – I recalled – to the 5 billion new policies, thanks to the recovery plan, thanks to the balanced allocation, by the desire to make investments in a whole series of essential departments, I am thinking of justice in particular. And without, to finance it, of course, looking for them in the pocket of our most fragile fellow citizens. Mr. President, I'll try to close, I'll try.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u105	I just wanted to ask you a little question, Mr Laaouej, about this tax on the rich, but you do not specify the modalities. We are told that the amount of this tax could reach a maximum of 300 million, which is less than the tax on securities accounts, which was to raise 500 million. But what do these 300 million represent for the wealth of the richest? The richest 1% – since only those are taxed, one could tax more widely – accumulate a fortune of 500 billion. So your return of $300 million represents a 0.06% tax on this asset, not 0.6 but 0.06%. You really think that's how we're going to tax the rich or are we here instead in the symbol tax, the placebo tax, as we might call it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u106	Mr Van Hees, we didn't wait for you when we raised the furniture discount to bring it from 15 to 30 %. No, but wait, 15 to 30 percent for the furniture discount! When you look at the redistribution of who owns the financial assets, it is not the poorest. In general, it focuses precisely on the richest people. We, we have doubled, we have doubled the discount furniture while you, you remain in postures and speeches. I don't want to argue with you, but what's your record? What is your assessment of tax justice? I can give you an inventory of all that we have managed to do, including in coalition governments: the abolition of bearer securities, the strengthening of OECDFO, the taxing of a whole series of capital gains in the head of companies. We did not wait for you, Mr Van Hees, to have a balance sheet on fairer taxation of capital. Let's be clear, no lessons to be learned. Mr President, I shall go to my conclusion. We will conclude, but I had so much to say about the social tariff, about the upcoming legal framework on the planned obsolescence, the increased support for entrepreneurship. I really had a whole series of things to say, but I think very sincerely that, out of respect for the parliamentary institution, it is necessary to ensure, indeed, that our interventions do not last two hours or three hours because, in my opinion, this did not make much sense. So I come to my conclusion. I wanted to tell you that the PS Group is lucid, that the context of the health crisis, the enormous energy required to combat the pandemic, the effects of this same pandemic on our social fabric, our economy and our public finances, all these difficulties will make the task of the new government difficult, as we know. In this regard, I would like to salute the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and Secretaries of State, your courage, your commitment and your dedication to the service of the nation. If the PS group is lucid, it is also supportive. Yes, the government agreement sets out an ambitious framework and road map, which we will support, and whose implementation will be crowned, we doubtless, with success. The success of the situation, the success required by the expectations of the population, the success that will give a future to our country, strengthened in its democratic and solidarity values. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS group will vote for trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip058x.u107	I suggest we suspend for a little while and retake at 2:00 p.m. sharp. Then the Flemish Interest Group is on the appeal. I'll see you in a minute. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, October 2, 2020 at 2 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 2 October 2020 at 2 p.m.
