ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u1	Good morning, everyone. Members who have tabled a question have two minutes of speaking time and those who have tabled several questions have three minutes to ask all their questions at the same time. We will ask the questions in the order in which they were tabled and the minister will answer them. Then there will be an inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u2	Madam President, as far as the order of business is concerned, we have received an e-mail informing us that questions brought in on time – yesterday before 11 a.m. – would not be taken into account. I am surprised and indignant at this decision. I would like to have the opportunity to intervene during questions and replies, since I have introduced my questions on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u3	Mr Van Hees, as you know, we are working in a very special situation. The technique cannot solve everything, and you are aware that we encountered a technical problem yesterday. It was therefore impossible to forward certain questions to the Minister's Office within the correct time frame. In so doing, it was decided to take into account only those issues that had been tabled before Friday night. In a current affairs debate, each group has the right to speak. There is nothing to prevent you from intervening, as I said, for three minutes if a member of your group has not tabled any further questions, and the minister will answer you quite normally. Given the current situation, I can only ask you to show some indulgence. We can already be pleased that video conferencing is helping to solve a lot of things. On the other hand, the Minister has already committed himself to answering questions that could not have been asked today next week. Questions that could not be taken into account can therefore also be raised next week in the continuation of this topical debate. In any event, you will have a three-minute speaking time since no other member of your group has asked questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose that you proceed directly to the debate before us and give the floor to Mr Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u4	Madam President, Minister, in general, I would like to know whether you have a new assessment of tax revenues. Furthermore, could you please let me know what the SFPI is putting in place to strengthen the equity and capital of SMEs that are clearly the most exposed? But above all, I would like to address the question of the tax shelter because the people concerned are largely affected by the situation we are experiencing. It is known that an amount invested in the tax shelter generates two to three times higher taxable income depending on whether the expenditure is made with international productions or Belgian productions. The government has already taken measures since, for the performing arts, it has extended from 24 to 30 months and, for the audiovisual sector, from 18 to 24 months, the deadline for possible eligible expenditure. Nevertheless, during this period of crisis, the sector needs support. As a result of corporate reform, we had tabled a proposal to raise the relative ceiling from 50 to 58 or 68 per cent, depending on the tax rate that could be applied. Is it possible to raise the relative ceiling? It also seems to us that raising the absolute ceiling in the context of the current situation, in any case for 2020, would be necessary. Estimates range from €1.5 million to €2 million in case of an increase in the absolute ceiling. Since productions or performances will not take place, would it not be possible to transfer the framework agreements to other productions? Indeed, the risk would be to lose capital that has been invested and, above all, to investors, to lose the tax advantage. This could concern projects that were known before 13 March, of course with the agreement of the production company. If carry-overs on other projects are not possible, the question arises as to whether, for the expenditure already incurred, the maintenance of the tax advantage could be effective. Otherwise, everything would be lost for everyone, including trust in the head of investors. Minister, have you ever looked at any leads on this? Are the ones I mentioned feasible? Is it necessary to make proposals to help this sector, which would otherwise face a very serious shock?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u5	The corona crisis rages in all intensity. We are seeing a health crisis, but there are also, of course, the negative economic consequences that we must tackle at local, Flemish, federal and European level. I would first like to talk about national policy and then about the European level of policy. At national level, the federal government has already taken a lot of support measures, just like the Flemish Government. That's a good thing, especially since there's a quick switch. As a result, some adjustments will have to be made here and there. That's okay. Control is also always a bit of adjustment, after one has evaluated what is going well, what is needed extra and what needs to be adjusted. I have two brief questions about this. Firstly, do you see any major gaps in the measures which have not yet been settled and which should be addressed urgently in your evaluation? We must, for example, ensure that our businesses, which may now become easy prey, are not hostilely taken over. Secondly, of course, we must already prepare the future and give people sufficient support, but at the same time we must not give incentives that would put too much pressure on our economy. For example, we had to see how some as unemployed people at the end of the month would be left more than if they were going to work safely. We may see the same phenomenon in companies in the tax field. Is that key taken, too? Do we not give disproportionate incentives in the whole of the aid package which can act as a deterrent to safe restart rather than to support too strongly? Does the test also, by definition, take place in consultation with the Länder for the measures they have taken? It will also be another important European week. The eurogroup meeting was held and the European Summit will take place on Thursday 23 April 2020. A great deal has already been decided at European level, particularly in relation to the European Central Bank and the Investment Bank; you were also present at the meeting of the Eurogroup. The principle is that solidarity in our European DNA plays a full part in helping to put out the Italian and Spanish houses, which are now mainly on fire, and to rebuild them. This does not mean, however, that we must take over the mortgage loans on their homes, or that we must simply guarantee all the debts they want to make in the future. An interesting communication took place today by Mrs Merkel. How do you assess the German proposal not to work with coronabons, but to set up an additional support mechanism through the European budget, ensuring that it is temporary and linked to specific expenditure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u6	Mr Minister, my question is somewhat in line with that of the previous speaker. I am kicking in an open door by saying that the coronavirus is facing Europe one of the biggest challenges since the financial crisis of 2008. Initially, there was some turmoil in the financial markets, when Christine Lagarde, the President of the European Central Bank, communicated little reassuringly that the ECB is not there to reduce spreads. Gradually, European organisms have sent out completely different signals and have said that they are ready to help Italy and Spain, i.e. the heavily affected areas, with everything they need. The European Commission, in a communication in black and white, ensured maximum budgetary flexibility and its President expressed his willingness to propose to the Council to activate the Stability Pact crisis clause. It was also announced that the ECB would buy up 120 billion additional bonds. Eventually that amount was raised to 900 billion. Minister, what is the impact of the changed policies of the ECB and the European Commission on our monetary policy and on our financial situation? How will you try to solve the funding needs of our federal government? The ECB will therefore buy up bonds of EUR 900 billion. Can you give me any idea how many Belgian bonds have already been bought up? I do not need to remind you of the measures already taken, but what if, for example, the banking deal is not enough? What if there are too few loans, because banks have to take full responsibility for the first EUR 1.5 billion? Finally, what will the National Bank do? Has the National Bank already actively used the ECB support?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u7	Mr Gilkinet, I now give you the floor for both questions. You have three minutes, but since you want to give Mr Calvo a chance to speak, you will reduce your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u8	Madam President, Minister, the situation is difficult for everyone not only in terms of health but also in terms of socio-economic conditions. The federal government's responsibility is to find solutions to cushion the shock, which you have already done with regard to your skills with bank guarantee law or discount payment deferrals. I would like to go back to categories that have been forgotten so far. The first category is those who receive temporary unemployment benefits, Corona unemployment, which are applied a single discount of 26.75 per cent, which poses a net income difficulty for the lowest wages, since the discount levy is too high compared to what they will have to pay as taxes. Workers with low initial wages will have too high an expectation and will not receive a tax refund until 2021, when they now need their wages. Is it possible, on an exceptional basis, to envisage a reduction in the discount rate for these temporary unemployed persons? My second question concerns the Food Claims Service. More and more people find themselves without payment of maintenance claims. Can the Support Claims Service ensure payment of advance payments? There are enough staff to deal with these issues. My third question concerns the tax shelter. My colleague from the MR has already come back to the issue. Is there a way to adapt the periods of justification for tax shelter investments and to relax the justifications requested in relation to the sector? Finally, I would like to address the issue of cross-border workers working in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. You know that a double taxation preventive convention obliges the workers concerned to be present very often on Luxembourg territory and hinders telework. In the circumstances, is it possible to adapt these conventions? Has it been negotiated with the Luxembourg State? That was my last question so as to give my colleague Calvo time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u9	Madam President, I would like to raise my questions. Minister, there was a consultation with the social partners on restarting our economy. That turns out to be a good thing. This Friday will be a very important date. You said last week that protocols of the sectors would be expected by then. When we talk about the relance, we're also talking about the Federal Participation and Investment Company. You asked FPIM to draw up an initiative specifically aimed at strengthening the capital and thus the solvency of the affected companies. That was March 19th. Ten days later, in the Seventh Day, you said you wanted a national investment plan. Would you be more specific about that? Has the ERMG brought to light concrete things that we and the business community can look forward to? I also have a question about the delay in payment for mortgage loans. On 31 March the banking agreement was proposed. You then called for no rush to the banks. An application could also be made in May, as the agreement remains valid. How does this work in practice for whom the repayment of the mortgage loan had to be made at the beginning of April? Have you lost a month? How does the scheme work in practice? I have another question in line with Mr Gilkinet's questions. A benefit for temporary unemployment is treated in a different social and fiscal way to pay. For example, there is a farm tax of 26,75 %. Low-wage workers do not pay a corporate tax depending on the family situation. So now the people concerned are paying corporate tax, even though of course they need that money. What is your view of this problem? Then I have one more question about frontier work. As far as I know, there is a Belgian-Luxembourg agreement. In fact, there is the tolerance rule under which frontier workers may exercise their activity outside their usual state of employment for up to 24 days and remain taxable in the other State. In these corona times it has been accepted that it is a question of force majeure. However, it is not clear to me what the situation is of the Belgian nationals employed in the border region of the Netherlands. Is the same system of tolerance applicable there, including force majeure? I would also like, like Mr Loones, to take a look at the European recovery fund, which was announced. That will apparently be considered next Thursday evening. Does Belgium fully agree with the German proposal for a temporary mechanism which is explicitly enshrined in the European multi-annual budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u10	Mr Minister, customs have never found such large quantities of drugs in passengers' luggage. In the last month, 1.13 tonnes of cocaine were discovered and drugs were intercepted abroad, which Belgium had as its destination. Even during the corona crisis, drug criminality is on the verge of collapse, and cigarette smuggling is not stopped either. Meanwhile, 1 customs officer in 10 is sick. A disease failure of 20% or 30% may be a problem for control. Mr President, if more customs personnel fail, how will full controls be organised? Do our customs officers get protective equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u11	Minister, I just wanted to talk to you about Brussels Airlines. Of course, aviation is also severely affected by the corona crisis and Brussels Airlines and TUI fly have requested state aid according to the media. That would be discussed, but we must not forget that the airlines are already exempt from a number of taxes. This must therefore be carefully considered. On the other hand, these airlines are crucial for the future of Brussels Airport, an important economic gateway to our country. Mr Minister, what slopes are being studied to support these companies? Is this also considered in a European story, if any? After all, all the airlines in the European countries are affected by the corona crisis and I can therefore imagine that the measures will be coordinated. What approach is being studied for those companies which were already loss-making before? In this context, consideration should be given to whether possible aid for air carriers can also be linked to a fairer tax contribution after the corona crisis. For example, there can be a more level playing field for all modes of transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u12	Minister, I have four questions, and I will reduce them to their essence, so that I remain within three minutes of speaking time. My first question concerns the state of play of the emergency fund, which was set up through the FPIM and is managed by a working group within the ERMG. I have a few specific questions about this. How does the creation and operation of this emergency fund work? Is there an amount committed? What part will be made through loans and what part through capital? Are there selection criteria to obtain support and, if so, which ones? Are there conditions attached to the aid and, if so, which ones? What aid has already been requested from the federal government, by which companies and for what amount? My second question concerns support for start-ups. We have already discussed this briefly during the discussion of the Royal Decree on the State guarantee. The conclusion was that the solution of a State guarantee is not really relevant for start-ups because they are otherwise financed in normal circumstances. You said at the time that you would think about other ways of supporting start-ups. Hence the next question, Minister. Do you envisage a solution within your powers to ensure that the corona crisis does not put an end to a large number of promising and innovative businesses, which we will need very much in the future? My third question concerns an extension of the VAT measures. In addition to some other additional measures, you have introduced a temporary measure that will exempt the provision of medical devices and protective equipment from VAT, while allowing donors to continue to use the VAT deduction in their tax returns. Minister, are you considering extending these measures to donations of laptops or other ICT material to schools or other institutions with similar needs? Finally, we have already discussed the distribution of dividends by Belgian banks. A similar demand has emerged from the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority for the insurance sector. Ageas has already stated that it will not comply with that recommendation and will nevertheless pay out a, albeit small, dividend and purchase its own shares. Minister, are you as clear in this debate as in the banking sector? What measures have you taken or are you planning to take to make these measures more binding?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer a secret that airlines around the world are facing serious problems as a result of the corona crisis. We could also see in the media that yesterday an airline was already in great difficulty in Australia. Minister, you mentioned earlier that a strong aviation cluster is of strategic importance to this country. In this respect, the demand for State aid by Brussels Airlines is currently being examined. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that Brussels Airlines is today 100% owned by Lufthansa in Germany. Whatever the outcome of the corona crisis and whatever it may be, it has already been announced that the airline will shrink by 30%. Minister, according to farewell President Etienne Davignon, who has already left, there would have been an agreement in principle, which you later denied. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what was the basis of those statements by Etienne Davignon? How did he come to announce this publicly? When will the investigation be completed? What conditions and guarantees does the government ask Lufthansa to help Brussels Airlines? What future plans does it regard as an essential issue? Finally, and not insignificantly, on what criteria will the dossier be finally assessed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u14	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my main questions concern the implementation of the special power orders concerning the bank guarantee. Minister, you have adopted a royal decree on the bank guarantee which still calls for a number of clarifications and questions. Minister, what about the possibility of a formal remedy for companies or independents who are excluded from the guarantee but who nevertheless fall within the criteria laid down by the scheme? The subject had been raised in our work. Could you tell us what remedies are available, and what these remedies could lead to for the self-employed and excluded companies? In order to avoid ambiguity, I am referring here to the question of the postponement of mortgage loans, but it was included under the heading "Royal Decree on Banking Guarantees". There is also the question of the monitoring carried out by the National Bank, which was often cited in our work. Minister, can you confirm that this reporting will be done on a regular basis and that actions can be taken quickly to correct an unwanted trend if it is found? In terms of credit, bank guarantee, as you know, we have discussed a lot about the concept of a viable business, since it is one of the criteria for triggering access to the bank guarantee. As a reminder, the cumulative conditions that have been established seemed too restrictive. They propose to exclude companies which, on 1 February, had unpaid tax and social debts; also to exclude companies which, on 1 February, had other credit debts with unpaid banks; and to exclude firms in difficulty within the meaning of the European Regulation. Mr Minister, do you not consider it necessary to provide for some flexibility in the analysis of these criteria with regard to the concept of a company in difficulty? If you agree on this, what interpretation guidelines could you give the banks to ensure that this flexibility is achieved, in order to avoid unwanted effects, i.e. to exclude companies that could have recovered, that simply needed some oxygen, but that they will be permanently deprived of? I guess you're not for some kind of economic Darwinism in times of crisis. Another issue concerns mortgages again. Very concrete, it deals with proof of loss of income that individuals must bring in order to bring a file to the bank. It is known that files that are quickly introduced can lead to a situation where not all official documents can be assembled in time. Therefore, how will the mortgage deferral applicant be able to complete his file and introduce it in time at the bank? Again, have you issued instructions to the banking sector to take into account the material impossibility for some people to have a complete file at the time of its introduction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u15	Minister, as part of my first question, I would like to address three points. The first concerns the European economic response to the crisis of VOCID-19. As we know, a recovery plan of some €540 billion has been adopted despite the many procrastinations that can be regretted. However, I welcome this plan, although I regret the lack of progress on the issue of coronabonds, which would have been an example of historical solidarity within the European Union. Mr Minister, with regard to the ESM (European Stability Mechanism), the declaration by the Ministers states that, after the crisis, states will need to strengthen their "economic and financial foundations". What do you mean by these "economic and financial foundations"? Would that not be a way of organising the return to conditionality once the health crisis had passed, as was known with the 2008 banking crisis? Secondly, is it known a little more about how the loans from the SURE programme will be distributed among the States? It is still 100 billion that will have to finance unemployment systems. I'd like to know a little more. Finally, as far as the mutualisation of debts is concerned, can you confirm whether Belgium is still part of the coalition of favourable countries or whether you have changed your mind? My second question concerns your decision to limit tax controls to so-called essential controls. Thus, you have launched a new procedure during containment and the most urgent ongoing controls will have to be carried out remotely. Where control is "essential to safeguarding the interests of the State", it may, however, be held on the spot. This type of measure seems normal both to protect our administration and taxpayers. However, I am concerned about the scope of certain concepts and, in particular, about the criteria that will allow these controls to be defined. Minister, what does this emergency criterion cover, which will allow certain ongoing procedures to remain at a distance? How did you inform your administration? What is your definition of emergency criteria? What do you mean by "control essential to safeguarding the interests of the State"? Very concretely, what types of controls are covered by these terms? For the checks which will still be carried out on the spot, I assume that specific instructions and protective equipment have been provided to avoid any risk of contamination to the tax administration staff? Finally, my third point concerns threats of takeover of shares of Belgian companies by foreign funds. With the crisis of the VOCID-19, some of our economic florets find themselves in serious difficulties, which could mean the displacement of decision-making centres from these companies abroad. To avoid this, and to maintain some form of control, it may be necessary to find a solution, through the acquisition of state participations in these companies, notably via the SFPI – the Federal Société de Participations et d'Investissement that we talked about. This threat obviously highlights all the limitations of the current economic model. We now see the importance of maintaining centres of production and skills in Belgium. The example of hydro-alcoholic masks or gels is striking in this respect. In order to prevent a social crisis from being added to a health crisis, it is obviously necessary to activate all the mechanisms to maintain this control of companies in Belgium, but also and above all, the jobs associated with it. We could do it for the banks after the financial crisis. We may be able to do this today for Belgian companies. Are you considering such acquisitions in order to protect Belgian companies from hostile takeovers, Minister, and to avoid the counting of our country of its industrial florets? Should not coordination with investment companies in the regions also be established in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u16	Madam President, Minister, many measures have been taken for some time now to support businesses and individuals, which is a good thing in itself, but the measures imposed also have some unintended consequences. This brings us to the problem of frontier workers, in particular the approximately 30,000 Belgians working in the Netherlands. In general, the rules are clear. The Belgians concerned work in the Netherlands and pay taxes there. Anyone who acquires 90% of his income in the Netherlands may also benefit from certain tax advantages, such as family benefits and mortgage deductions. The current measures require a large number of those involved to work at home, which puts them in difficulties with taxation. The performance in Belgium is taxed in Belgium. The result is that tax benefits in the Netherlands are lost, while those involved in Belgium cannot get tax benefits. In other words, frontier workers who normally work in the Netherlands are at risk of being put at a disadvantage, because they are threatened with a tax invoice because of the corona measures. In the margins, I would like to point out that the OECD has made it clear that income should in principle be taxed in the same way as before, now in the crisis. It seems that agreements have already been reached with Luxembourg and France. Minister, what about the agreements with the Netherlands? Have steps been taken to ensure that the adverse effects on Belgian frontier workers working in the Netherlands will not occur?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u17	Mr Minister, first of all, with regard to the bank guarantee which was granted through the Royal Decree of 15 April last, we have received a series of testimonies indicating that banks are clearly reluctant to grant loans to independents, households or SMEs who are in real need of them. This information has also been confirmed by articles in the press. Could you give us an overview of the current situation? Have you noticed a blockage in these loans? If so, can you provide us with the number and amounts? It is important to be able to measure this reluctance, and if it is confirmed, to see what can be done. Article 23(5) of the Royal Decree provides that a bank which refuses loans to eligible undertakings systematically or on a large scale will be completely deprived of the State guarantee. How do you check that the banks do not exceed the conditions imposed by this royal decree? Secondly, Denmark has just decided that public aid to companies in the fight against coronavirus will not be granted if companies pay dividends, if they buy their own shares and if they are registered or have links in tax havens. Do you think such measures would be applicable in Belgium? In any case, the PTB is requesting this and is working on a proposal on this subject. The third aspect I would like to address is the budgetary situation. The figures are circulating: it is the waltz of billions depending on the institutions that communicate them. Do you already have reliable estimates for the end of the year and the end of 2021? Have you explored tax avenues to address this deficit? The PTB has tabled a bill to introduce a 5% "corona" solidarity tax, which would be a one shot measure aimed at big fortunes starting at EUR 3 million. According to our calculations, it could raise about $15 billion. Minister, do you think that such a tax would be sufficient to meet the budgetary challenge or should the rate be revised upwards? Finally, while many sectors suffer from the crisis, other companies benefit from it. For example, large areas make good deals. Online companies such as Amazon also benefit from the situation. While a small bookstore – I'm not talking about a newspaper dealer – whose company has had to close down is penalized and therefore rightly receives help, why not overtax the overprofits registered by the large companies that benefit from the coronavirus crisis? Do you share this approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u18	Madam President, after being taken by Mr. Van Hees in the Communist paradise, I'm going to try to get down on earth! You will forgive me that as an entrepreneur I am not only concerned for the present, for tomorrow, but also for the day after tomorrow. We now finally have a grip on this health crisis. The government has taken a number of measures to prevent the economy from getting out of hand and unnecessary accidents on the part of the self-employed and businesses. It must be clear that this crisis has a cost and that we will not be able to compensate everyone. Mr Gilkinet, we have certainly forgotten someone and we cannot compensate everyone. The generosity which the government must demonstrate at such moments of acute crisis is, of course, not a blank cheque to spend money freely and without restrictions in time, money that there is no such thing. If the money isn't there, someone's gonna have to pay for it. This will have to be done through taxes, for this generation and for the next generation. One can also keep printing money. If you do this indefinitely, you will get hyperinflation. That's a nice property tax that affects everyone. Or, as Professors Decoster and Baert have recently demonstrated, one can try to get the economy back on track as quickly as possible and responsibly. In this context, I would like to warn against the populist lure that the government will solve everything and that this is now proof that only the government is blissful. I also see that the PVDA on the left is being overtaken by Mr Crombez, who says that the rich will have to pay it, as if they were the culprits for this health crisis. The virus is very supportive. Whether one is rich or poor, it affects everyone. The slogan could be: "Let's all be poor"! This is ideal in some communist countries if we see their achievements. However, let it be clear: the tax tsunami usually also affects the middle class. It is much more sensible to find long-term solutions that restore the economy and show solidarity. If we think the government is only blissful, then all we have to do is look at the bilan of the Soviet Union, China under Mao or Venezuela today. Let's be honest, and I won't name any names, but in the south of our own country, some government holding companies aren't the best evidence either. But I don't want to make it community. In Flanders there are also too many government institutions and agencies. With a public debt of more than 50%, the first task is to manage this money more efficiently. Minister, we must not only manage the short-term and define an exit strategy, but also start to think about the lessons to be learned from this crisis. The most important lesson is that our economy and our state and political structures must be more efficient and manoeuvrable. We must start thinking about the structures of our country in the field of taxation. We must have the courage to debate this so that citizens and businesses can have the necessary oxygen and support for a healthy economy that will safeguard our prosperity and our social security. I would like this debate to be conducted in a pragmatic manner. I also appeal to my colleagues in Parliament to consider, in an appropriate way, what we are learning from this crisis. How do we make our economy and society stronger, so that the driving motor of our prosperity is safeguarded?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u19	I gave Mr Calvo and my colleague Vanbesien 45 seconds, at least a minute. So he's entitled to two minutes!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u20	Minister, I would like to talk about two very fundamental issues. Firstly, this point will sound familiar to you from our group and has been raised before. I would like to join with Mr Van den Bergh's questions on the aviation dossier. It is a major economic player and a lot of people earn their living there. If the demand for aid comes up, for example for Brussels Airlines, it really has to be subject to certain conditions. Let us not be naive in the conversations with Lufthansa and Germany. There must be guarantees for employment and this will not surprise you. One must register in the Green Deal and in the climate ambitions. Secondly, I would very much like to take this opportunity to call on you to join the Danish initiative, which yesterday made the very clear choice to help companies on the one hand and, on the other hand, to use the support for greater justice and reciprocity. I understand that you do not have a text ready today, but I would really like to call on you to join us, in particular on the link between granting aid and the lack of a link with tax havens. Minister, would you like to work with us on such an initiative? It would be logical for companies to have no link to tax havens in any way if they were supported. Let us make use of this crisis to help our companies, but also to ensure fiscal justice and transparency. I hope that you will be able to commit yourself to this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u21	Madam President, this has been a series of questions. I've been trying to group them. First issue: the European Union. On 18 March, the ECB announced new measures to combat the effects of the pandemic. In this context, the Governing Council of the ECB announced an emergency purchase programme of EUR 750 billion, the so-called Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme. This will be used at least until the end of the year to purchase both government and business assets. Moreover, in order to safeguard the global supply of dollar liquidity, the ECB and the central banks of the US, the UK, Japan, Canada and Switzerland decided on 15 March to extend the existing swap facilities and allow their use to be made on more favourable terms. For its part, the European Commission has repeatedly said that it will use all the instruments at its disposal to save the economy. As Mrs Lagarde said:whatever it takes. On 16 March, the euro area finance ministers, meeting in videoconference, welcomed all the necessary measures taken by the Member States. The situation requires a strong and coordinated political response. A first set of national and European measures has been decided to respond urgently to health needs and to the economic situation. The Commission's Corona Response Investment Initiative provides €37 billion for health care, SMEs, the labour market and fragile sectors. This fund can still be supplemented by EUR 28 billion of structural funds still available. Both budgetary legislation and state aid rules are applied with great flexibility, which should allow Member States to take all necessary measures. The Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) and the national supervisory authorities have already relaxed prudential rules with regard to banks. Many measures are also taken at Member State level. That's what our country does. These necessary measures will weigh heavily on public finances. On a proposal from the Commission, the Council of Ministers decided to make full use of the flexibility provided for in the European fiscal framework. The budgetary costs associated with the measures to combat the economic crisis shall be considered as one-off and shall not be taken into account. In a situation of exceptional circumstances outside government control, it is possible to temporarily suspend the required budgetary adjustments. In the event of negative growth or a strong decline in economic activity, the required budgetary path may be revised. On the basis of the Commission, the Council has also activated the escape clause to accommodate fiscal stimulus policies. In addition, our country is also strongly involved in discussions in the framework of the Eurogroup to organise strong European solidarity. To this end, the Eurogroup developed the contours of a three-way European safety net. Firstly, for companies, through a pan-European guarantee fund of the European Investment Bank, to support EUR 200 billion in loans for businesses and SMEs. Secondly, for workers, with the European Commission providing EUR 100 billion in loans for national temporary unemployment schemes. For this SURE programme, loans are distributed among Member States taking into account needs, which can be expected to result in an asymmetric distribution between Member States, depending on the severity of the pandemic. Thirdly, for public authorities, it is about activating the European Stability Mechanism to cope with the heavy external shock. Euro countries could claim 2% of GDP on the ESM credit lines to finance domestic expenditure directly related to COOVID-19. The Ministers' report clearly states that it is an instrument of support in the fight against this pandemic crisis, based on the credit line with reinforced conditions; this is called enhanced conditions credit line. The report also indicates that this instrument will only be available during the crisis period. The only condition for eligibility is the Member State's commitment to use this line of credit to finance direct and indirect costs related to health care, healing and prevention in the crisis of VOCID-19. In addition, the creation of a temporary European recovery fund is being examined to give a new impetus to the European economy. It is up to the European Heads of State or Government to indicate the direction that this fund should take. Belgium is also of the opinion that financing for the recovery should be able to draw on all possible financing options. Since we do not know what the future will be done, it is, from our point of view, difficult to close some doors already. I know that some people are wondering whether we are in favour of or against the mutuation of loans. Belgium's position has always been that we do not close the door to that now, because we do not know where we will end up. We have tried to take a middle position. Mr Loones, you indicated that Mrs Merkel says it can also be done through the MFF. Yeah, that's a possibility, too. Some European countries say in advance that this cannot be the bad façon. We have always said that different things are possible for us. A type of coronabonds is a possibility. Working through the MFF is also a possibility. We are not yet in a position to say that this must be one or the other. Then I come to the questions about the National Bank of Belgium. In a number of its tasks, the bank is cooperating at European level on solutions that seek to address the impact of the crisis as far as possible. For example, the National Bank is not only in the ECB's decision-making body for monetary policy, which, in addition to expanding purchasing programmes and ensuring liquidity, provides additional support to European lending through the so-called targeted longer-term refinancing operations (TLTROs), but also in the supervisory board of the single supervisory mechanism for banks, together with the European Banking Authority, through specific micro-prudential measures. As a macro-prudential authority, the National Bank also has the task of monitoring financial stability on the Belgian market. In this capacity, the National Bank has in the past imposed a number of capital buffers on Belgian banks. These are two types of buffer: a countercyclical buffer of around €1 billion, to cover cyclical risks, and an additional specific capital buffer of around €1.8 billion, for risks in the real estate market. On 10 March 2020, as a result of this crisis, the National Bank decided to fully release the countercyclical capital buffer of banks. The capital released gives the Belgian banks additional scope to absorb possible future credit losses and to ensure the continuity of lending for the time being. So much for the part about the European Union and the National Bank. The second issue concerns telework and frontier workers. In the context of the coronavirus and following the recommendations of the Luxembourg government, the Grand-Ducal companies encourage staff residing in Belgium to work from their home. This alone is not such as to allow a derogation from the rules put in place to avoid double taxation, such as the special agreement of the 24 days to which you refer. However, in the face of the VOCID-19 pandemic, the Belgian and Luxembourg tax authorities agreed. A joint press release was published under the heading "News" on the FPS Finance website on 17 March last concerning the teleworking of cross-border workers in the Belgian-Luxembourg context. This statement seems to me to meet your concerns. The application of the 24-day rule with Luxembourg provides for a provision in cases of force majeure. The Luxembourg agreement decided to consider the mandatory home working days as force majeure for the 24-day rule. Cases of force majeure have also been taken into account in the frontier worker scheme provided for in the French-Belgian double taxation convention. Here too, in conjunction with the French administration, it has been decided that the compulsory home working days may be regarded as force majeure in the context of this crisis. For other neighbouring countries, we are currently negotiating the same thing. They have not yet been completed, but I hope that this can be done in the short term. It is about the Netherlands, for example. Then there is a chapter on socio-economic aid. Companies experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the spread of the coronavirus were already able to apply for aid from the FPS Finance. It concerns a pay-off plan, the possible remission of fines and the exemption of negligence interests for the following tax debts: corporate tax, VAT, personal income tax, corporation tax and legal persons tax. The federal government has taken additional measures to create additional financial breathing space for companies and entrepreneurs. Firstly, the postponement of the corporate tax declaration, the legal person tax, GNI/Ven and VAT. Secondly, the automatic postponement of payment of two months for VAT and the company levy without fines or interest. Thirdly, the automatic postponement of payment of two months for personal income tax, corporate income tax, non-residents' tax and legal persons' tax at the top of the normal two-month payment period, without paying any negligence interest. A draft law was also adopted by the Council of Ministers which will be delivered to Parliament in the near future, including a change to the system of prepayment to support companies in liquidity problems, the postponement of certain investments in tax relief arrangements and the tax exemption for regional government aid. In addition, I am examining what measures we can take in the long term to boost the solvency of companies. On the basis of the recommendations of the Economic Risk Management Group, my administration is examining what existing measures can be extended and what new initiatives can be taken to avoid the solvency problems of companies as far as possible, but also how we can get the economy out of this crisis in the medium term. However, it is too early to say anything concrete about this. It goes without saying that consultation with the regional entities concerned will take place in the areas that require it. There are also consultations with the sectors concerned on a number of measures which concern both themselves and my administration. I understand that there is still an interplay on this subject. I can go a little further on this, but I cannot give details of the measures, because they have not yet been decided. With regard to the tax shelter, in view of the exceptional situation created by the VOCID-19 and the related measures imposed by the federal government, I have already decided to extend by six months the time limits for the 18 or 24 months during which the expenditure is to be made for the audiovisual tax shelter and the tax shelter for the performing arts, respectively. This extension is granted if the producer demonstrates direct damage as a result of measures introduced by the federal government in the fight against coronavirus. This extension allows us to find a solution to the most frequent situations. Mr Vanbesien, you asked for support for start-ups. First of all, the previous government has already taken an important step with the tax shelter to provide start-ups with the necessary funding. As you know, individuals may receive a tax reduction of between 30% and 45% if they directly acquire new shares from a starting company or from a crowdfunding platform. With this measure, the federal government wants to support small companies of up to four years old who need capital to finance their start-up. A small company can collect up to 250,000 euros through this tax measure. The measure was extended to scale-ups aimed at growing companies of at least four years old. In addition, the federal guarantee mechanism, whereby the government guarantees EUR 50 billion in loans from banks and non-financial corporations, is a wide-ranging application that many companies can rely on. You have indeed said that this would have less impact for many start-ups. In addition, there are also targeted case-by-case systems under the regional measures to give promising start-ups a chance. They include, for example, a guarantee scheme of the Flemish government covering banking and non-bank debt up to 12 months. That scheme is specifically targeted at undertakings which, without this guarantee, cannot conclude a financing agreement. Finally, there are also European measures targeting small and medium-sized enterprises, such as COSME and InnovFin. As you can see, many initiatives have already been taken in the past to help start-ups find the necessary funding, but I agree with you that start-ups are an important group of companies. After all, they are important to renew our economy. I'm looking into what additional measures I can take. This could be an adaptation of the current tax shelter regulations or other measures, but it is still too early to propose them. There were a number of questions about the social and tax treatment of the temporary unemployment benefit. We have already taken several steps to ensure that this difficult period remains financially sustainable. Indeed, the occupational discount rate of 26.75 per cent is too high for low wages. On the other hand, it is too low for a person who receives an average wage. A low salary will probably recover part of this professional discount when counting, while the person who receives an average wage at high risk of paying more taxes. Nevertheless, I believe that it is especially among the lowest wages that there is an urgent need for increased purchasing power now and not in a few months. Each euro counts for these people at the end of the month. I am currently looking, together with my administration, at how we can provide a solution to the corporate tax on the statutory benefit for temporary unemployment at low wages. An important problem is that the trade unions and the auxiliary cash who pay the benefits are generally not well aware of the individual situation of their members. This does not allow them to impose a customized corporate tax, as the social secretariats and employers can do. I know that sometimes articles appear in the newspapers today that indicate that people with temporary unemployment earn more today than they did when they worked. This is one element, but there is another. Temporary unemployment is granted on a flat-rate basis today because the FOD WASO cannot handle the amount of work. That means that there are people who get more than what they should get while other people get less. The set-aside has yet to happen, but it has always been our priority to give people on lower incomes a little too much, temporarily, because this is a difficult time. There were many questions about the agreement with the banks. As you know, the agreement concluded consists of two shutters. The first part provides a payment delay of up to six months to viable companies, self-employed and non-profit organisations, as well as mortgage borrowers who are in payment difficulties as a result of the corona crisis. During the first week, 86,000 companies and private individuals have already made use of this for a total delay of EUR 1 billion. The banks will not be able to grant the postponement retroactively. It is not the case that the monthly due date always falls in the beginning of the month. After all, it may also be the day on which the authentic instrument is once past or the last day of the month. In short, a lot of borrowers will still be eligible for a postponement for the month of April. The banks will also deal with these requests as a matter of urgency. It has also been said that it was a six-month delay. Those who did not get the delay in April will therefore have their first month of delay in May. Then this delay runs for six months, so until the end of October. Some banks have already decided to give the people whose due date expired on 1 April a month's delay. I know about one bank that did this. However, other banks have not done so and people can start to think that they have lost their chance. However, there will be a six-month delay, the beginning will only be postponed. The amount of EUR 25,000 relates to the sum of the funds available in current and savings accounts or which can be made available from, for example, investments. Pension savings and pension funds do not count for this calculation. As far as proof of loss of income is concerned, creditors will seek to work quickly and smoothly. They will request only a few supporting documents to enable the application to be launched. This may, for example, be an employer's wage sheet, on the basis of which temporary unemployment can be determined, but it may also be a declaration that the applicant's income has fallen sharply. Mr Laaouej, I have also reiterated this in a letter sent to Febelfin confirming that the declaration of honour is admissible as first evidence. There is no need to hand over a print of the monthly declaration sent by the employer to inform the hours of temporary unemployment, the ASR 5 document. To clarify this, I also sent a letter to the President of Febelfin on 14 April. In the case of self-employed persons, a certificate of honour may also be used to establish that income has fallen and/or can be shown, on the basis of proof of the granting of one of the regional premiums, that the self-employed person is active in one of the sectors affected. It should also be stressed that banks have formally undertaken, through the Febelfin Charter, not to refuse the deferral of payments to companies and independents fulfilling the conditions. If there is still a dispute, the traditional procedure must be followed. The first is to try to reach an agreement with his banker, and if it proves unsuccessful, to address Ombudsfin, the financial service mediator. Recently, there is also a call centre at FSMA where information can be obtained as to whether the conditions are met, in particular to benefit from the deferral of the refund. The National Bank has also provided for a system of comprehensive monitoring of the moratorium and guaranteed credits to respond, inter alia, to questions from Parliament. With regard to the carry-overs of payments granted to businesses and independents, these will have to be registered in the Centrale des Appropriations aux Entreprises. This will allow statistics to be compiled by bank, type of business or sector of activity. A monthly update is planned. The second part of the banking agreement has created a state guarantee of EUR 50 billion for new additional loans or credit lines of up to 12 months for viable companies, self-employed and non-profit organisations. The Royal Decree governing all the conditions and modalities of that State guarantee has already been published in the Belgian Official Journal. The European Commission's approval of this has already been obtained, as a questioner has already pointed out. In the case of guaranteed loans granted to undertakings or independents, a double reporting to the National Bank is foreseen. Firstly, the guaranteed credits will also have to be recorded in the Centrale des crédits aux entreprises, which allows for similar monitoring and in the same way as mentioned for moratoria. Second, banks will be required to register any written requests for secured credit addressed to them. On this basis, they will transmit monthly statistics to the National Bank on the percentage of applications accepted, refused or withdrawn, by type of enterprise (large, SME or independent). As far as the concept of a company in difficulty is concerned, we faithfully implemented the agreement we concluded with the financial sector on 21 March. Indeed, the agreement stated that on 1 February 2020 a company should not have behinds or should not have behinds of more than 30 days on 29 February 2020. In this way, we wanted to limit the guarantee scheme to companies that were healthy before the outbreak of the corona crisis. This choice must also be seen in the context of obligations that we impose on banks. For example, banks will have to bear any losses they will incur on their existing loans. We have also asked them, unlike other countries, to bear the first 3% of losses from new loans granted under the guarantee scheme. In this context, it was important to focus on companies that were healthy before the outbreak of the corona crisis. If we had included in our state guarantee those companies that were not viable before the start of the corona crisis, we would have exposed the financial sector to great risks, which would certainly not benefit the stability of the financial system. In my view, it is important for banks to be able to apply the provisions of our Royal Decree with sufficient flexibility. It is always possible for a company or an independent person to contract a small one-off debt. This should not prevent him from obtaining a new credit under the State guarantee. Banks need to be flexible in this regard. I sent a letter to the President of Febelfin on 14 April. Finally, I would like to say that I certainly understand your question. This will therefore be closely monitored. If it turns out that some SMEs and self-employed people are difficult to restart their business after the lockdown because they are not getting the necessary funding, I am prepared to take additional initiatives in this area. In its capacity as an investment company, the FPIM closely follows the situation of its portfolio and shares and will consider, on a case-by-case basis, the financial solution it can offer to its various investment sectors in order to allow FPIM's participations to overcome the current crisis. In the context of its legal advisory mission to the government and on the basis of its expertise, the FPIM assists the government in its search for solutions, including by participating in the Economic Risk Management Group or by chairing the Working Group on Large Enterprises. They'll take the time they need to do that. If, on the basis of this analysis, the government decides to grant aid, the conditions under which this will be done will be determined and will have to be negotiated. As was the case during the 2008 crisis, the FPIM works closely with the government and is willing to ensure the follow-up of specific projects for which it would be responsible, in a delegated mandate to support the Belgian economy, either directly or through participation in a fund. If aid were to be provided, it would be essential to maximise the protection of employment and provide a clear perspective for the future, so that companies can grow again after the crisis. Since we are still in the analysis phase, it is too early to mention the specific case of some company or to give specific figures. As regards the distribution of dividends by insurers, on 7 April 2020, the National Bank of Belgium, in line with EIOPA's recommendations, asked insurance companies and groups to postpone their dividend payments until at least October 2020. This date was thus determined by the Bank to be consistent with the approach applied to banking supervision and reflects the high uncertainty about the long-term impact of the COOVID-19 pandemic on the insurance sector. Furthermore, the National Bank also calls for a cautious and conservative attitude to variable remuneration and profit participation. The variable part of the remuneration policy should be carefully defined and deferred as long as the financial and economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic are not clear to the company. A similar attitude is required for the policy of profit participation and ristornos, however, taking into account possible economic and social consequences for insured persons. In a press release dated 9 April 2020, AG Insurance, the country's largest insurer, has already announced that it will follow the Bank's recommendations. The Bank's recommendations are clearly addressed to all Belgian insurance companies and insurance groups, including those with a foreign mother. I shall then come to the postponement of non-essential tax controls. I thus come to the position of the FPS Finances regarding the supervisory functions and the need to maintain the freedom to safeguard the financial interests of the State. Non-essential, less urgent and/or carry-over controls will be carried out, with the aim of limiting contacts and protecting both controllers and controllers. This concerns only physical checks. Remote controls, for example, in the context of telework, continue to be prepared or carried out. The criterion is therefore the financial interest of the State which could be jeopardized by the failure to perform or defer the control in question, as well as the risk of limitation and tax evasion which must be avoided. These are controls carried out by the General Tax Administration and the Special Tax Inspectorate. The General Administration of Heritage Documentation and, in particular, the Measurements & Evaluations Administration, will not organise on-site monitoring during the crisis period. Again, file controls can be done and will be done remotely. Finally, the General Administration of Customs and Excise must be able to continue to exercise controls at the country's physical borders. The controls it carries out are essential to ensure the security of the territory and the citizens. The Customs Administration organises itself to reduce or stop non-essential controls, such as controls on public roads, and focuses on essential physical controls at borders. Again, controls that do not require physical presence continue. Priority in the distribution of protective equipment was given to Customs and Excise General Administration teams and to logistics or production services. No protective equipment has been requested by the General Tax Administration or the General Administration of the Special Tax Inspectorate. General instructions relating to social distancing and basic hygiene rules have been provided on several occasions to both team managers and all employees. I come to the extension of the VAT regime applicable to donations. The temporary fiscal measures taken on donations of medical devices and protective equipment in the context of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic were now enshrined in a draft law. In particular, it concerns the draft law on various urgent tax provisions resulting from the COOVID-19 pandemic, which was submitted to Parliament this week. Parliament will therefore also have the opportunity to hold an in-depth debate on the scope of these temporary fiscal measures. With regard to ICT materials and in particular laptops, particular attention will have to be paid to the potential fraud risks associated with the application of the special scheme in the case of donation. Indeed, it would be the first time that the special VAT regime is applied to durable goods for general use. Then I come to Brussels Airlines. The government does not focus on specific companies, but on a wider level, because the aviation sector is of strategic importance to our country. The business cluster around Brussels Airport alone represents 26,000 direct and 40,000 indirect jobs. Brussels Airport is the second most important economic hub in our country. Given the strategic importance for the Belgian economy and the growth potential after the corona crisis, we are convinced that it is important for Belgium to safeguard a strong aviation ecosystem. The aviation dossier was therefore closely and thoroughly monitored by the Federal Government and ERMG. In the meantime, a working group on air transport has been set up at the Federal Participation and Investment Company, in which all the slopes are studied specifically for these companies. In any case, it will be important to strike a good balance between the various interests: the strategic and economic importance, which is absolutely not negligible, the importance of thousands of workers that we take particularly to heart, but also the importance of the Belgian State and the Belgian taxpayer. As regards the possible State aid to Brussels Airlines, it has not yet been decided whether aid will be offered in this file and under what conditions this might happen. As already mentioned, the FPIM first makes a thorough analysis of the aid application and is talking about it with the management of Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa. They will take the time necessary to do so. If, on the basis of this analysis, the government decided to grant aid to Brussels Airlines, the conditions under which this would happen would be determined and negotiated with Lufthansa, the current owner of Brussels Airlines. For the government, it is essential, if aid is granted, that employment is protected to the maximum and that a clear future is given to Brussels Airlines, so that after the crisis it can become the national airline again, and a crucial link in the development of Brussels as an international hub. D e discussion on a level playing field for other modes of transport takes place at European level and deals with both a possible kerosene tax and a carbon tax. We cannot have this discussion alone in Belgium, as there is a global impact. A final element concerns record drug seizures in coronatimes. On 6 April 2020, the disease breakdown in the General Administration of Customs and Excise was 5,33 %. In the two operational administrations, namely Operations and Investigation, the disease failure is 5,92 % and 3,32 % respectively. The drug team and the cigarette team in the port of Antwerp have an illness rate of 4.8 % and 10% respectively. So the disease failure is rather limited. Controls on drug smuggling and cigarette smuggling are a priority and will continue successfully. Due to the corona crisis, almost all passenger flights have been cancelled. There are currently no passenger flights from Latin America. If customs officers on the drug team and the cigarette team fail, they will be replaced by colleagues from other teams. The customs officers still have mouth masks, hand gel and latex gloves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u22	Minister, since you have not answered any of my questions, I will reword them. With regard to the tax shelter, can a postponement of projects be granted on other files in the event of the cancellation of a show or production? If not, is the tax benefit maintained? Given the situation, is it possible to raise the absolute ceiling for fiscal year 2020? And, eventually, is it possible to raise the relative ceiling as well? This was already necessary in view of the corporate tax reform, but this is all the more so in view of the current situation. I heard your answer about the borderers. I had not asked a question on this subject. I was aware of the measures that have been taken and that I find good. However, the question will come back because, on several occasions, you have stated that it is not possible to go further now because it would take a full-fledged government to be able to renew the La Gaichel agreements. It would also be necessary, now or when we have another government, to try to stabilize telework on a day-to-week basis, which corresponds to the agreement reached between the administrations and the ministers of our two states, which must be implemented. This is obviously fundamental, especially since the current period has enabled us to measure the value of telework, which it produces both in terms of the road economy and in terms of the increase in the yield of teleworking workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u23	With regard to the tax shelter, we are in the process of resolving all these issues in a circular to clarify this topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u24	Minister, I was convinced, but I like it even better for you to tell me!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u25	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to briefly replicate your answer on a temporary European recovery fund. Firstly, you say that it is up to the Heads of State or Government to decide on Thursday evening's direction. That is a pity, because it gives the impression that Prime Minister Wilmès decides on her own. That should not be a decision of one person, it should not even be a decision of a minority government. As far as we are concerned, this should be the subject of a debate in Parliament. We had prepared a resolution to discuss it as a matter of urgency, and I still regret that the other parties blocked it. We have put ourselves out of the way as a Parliament, and that is a great pity. Secondly, you say that the government does not want to close the door to the mutation of debts. I still think this is the wrong question. There is always a demand for funding, when we should be starting from a demand for measures. What do we want to do to deal with this corona crisis in terms of health and economics? Then we see through which institution we best organise it, within the communitarised European approach or rather intergovernmental. The final step is then how we will finance it. Here we always start with the question of financing, which is immediately the question of solidarity, but also the question of probleming. After all, there will be a number of discussions that we would have no or less if we were to talk first about what we would do with what measures. I think that the focus should really be on how we can help in the short term, fast, focused and solidarity so that we can put out that fire and pay for the corona economic measures. I come to my final point. You say "something of a type of coronabonds is a possibility." Those are your words. I would like to refer there to the same communication from Mrs Merckel today. She says it will take two to three years to organize the issuance of coronabonds. People who argue in favour of this do not show solidarity with those countries that really need help. After all, they need this help now, not within two or three years. So I repeat my question that Belgium would not play a role in an ideological bidding and would not serve an ideological political agenda that would lead to unnecessary delays in aid. Whoever opts for coronabonds chooses for delay. We must ensure rapid aid for those countries that need it, and this can be done in a different and more sensible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u26	Minister, thank you. The format is not comfortable; but if necessary, we will return. I asked an important question about the "corona" unemployment discount. You share my analysis. This is already a first step. You tell us that you are looking for a solution with your administration. I would just like to point out to you that the payment of the next unemployment benefits takes place in exactly ten days. If a signal is to be given to payment operators, for example through a linear reduction of the discount on all temporary allowances – limited to try both to help the lowest wages and to avoid too large a tax surplus for those who are correctly pre-counted – the decision must be taken very quickly. I believe that payment funds, whether CAPAC or trade unions, are fully aware of the problem and therefore able to react quickly, but it takes a minimum of time to complete. You have ten days left. We are at your disposal to contribute to this and other problems. I've heard, really, that you share the analysis, but you have an obligation, or at least I'm trying to push you to an obligation of result. On the question of the tax shelter mechanism, I also hear, and I am glad, that you want to correct what can be done via circular. I insist that you do so in dialogue with the operators of the tax shelter, who correctly identify, it seems to me, the needs in relation to the durations in which they have to justify things. You didn't answer my question about SECAL, but that's one of the questions that disappeared in computer limbos. I'll come back next week. I draw your attention to the particular situation of the mothers concerned – it is often divorced mothers who are victims of non-payment of maintenance claims. This really leads to dramatic situations. Since dads are more often in situations of economic stress and inability to pay, SECAP really needs to play its role as an advance to support children. These advances are in any case recoverable. That is what this service serves. I have noted your answers about SN Brussels Airlines. You say that no decision has been made. However, I hear that there is an advanced dialogue between the SFPI and the society concerned. I would like to tell you two things about this. Firstly, we cannot indefinitely come to the aid – I remember very well the Sabena dossier – of companies which, in good times, make significant profits, and which, in the event of difficulties, turn to public authority, that is to say to all citizens. There is also an obligation, as in the case of banks, to have a share of own funds and an ability to manage stress, even if it is exceptional. Secondly, the air industry requires a fundamental transformation in relation to our commitments on the Paris and other agreements. If it's just to start over exactly as before, I don't think we'll understand anything. Finally, on the discussions at European level, you know that we stand for the strongest possible solidarity at European level, and for a vision, which was proposed by the European Commission with the Green Deal. We believe that solidarity can be expressed, by Eurobonds or coronabonds, to set up a mutualization; and that the vision for tomorrow can be built around the Green Deal. We expect Belgium to be at the forefront, as it has historically been on this type of issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for responding to a number of very practical concerns expressed by citizens who have reached me. I refer to the negotiations with the Netherlands on frontier work, to the mortgage loans on which you have given a reassuring answer and to another social and fiscal treatment of temporary unemployment, which seems to be a matter of concern to you. In the run-up to Mr Van Lommel's interplay, I would like to say that it is also important for us that strategic sectors should be protected in the context of relance policy, but you are obviously still at the analysis stage of this concern. I have also taken note of the Danish example, which takes account of the ethical dimension of fiscal justice in decisions. I hope you will do the same in the next few weeks if you make decisions. After all, a very large effort is required in the area of public finances. Aspects such as dividends, redundancies, buying up own shares and so on are a concern shared by our group, along with some other groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u28	Minister, I am glad that the matter has been followed up so well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u29	Minister, I listened very carefully to your reply, but today we do not really know anything about a few weeks ago. You say you're not going to work on a specific company, but that it needs to be seen much wider. That is quite logical, but it is very important to know which criteria are important to judge that one wants to save a company effectively. It is also very important to lay down objective criteria for this. Specifically in the case of Brussels Airlines, we all know that the money is running out. Are you saying that we still do not know what conditions will be attached to any aid to Brussels Airlines? Then, after all these weeks, we are still as far away, which means nowhere. I also did not receive an answer to my specific question as to why Etienne Davignon made these statements in the press. Where there's smoke, there's fire, and that won't just be taken out of the sky. However, I was not allowed to hear about this. Minister, Brussels Airlines has announced a future decline of 30% and the company is in German hands at 100%. It is important to consider that as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the answers, although they contain little news. That is understandable, of course, because such negotiations take some time. At the same time, the interests you have put forward are particularly important. I notice that you only spoke about Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa and not about TUI fly, while the same question seemed to come from there. As far as the level playing field is concerned, you are referring to Europe. That is right, but you too are at that European table and all European airlines are facing similar problems. If all European countries are confronted with this, it is good that this should also be done effectively at European level. The aspect of sustainability and its incorporation into the Green Deal may also be on the table if such companies come to ask for financial support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. As far as the FPIM emergency fund for large companies is concerned, you say that today it is too early to say a lot of concrete things about it. I hear that the evaluation of the criteria and the negotiation of the conditions case by case will take place. However, I hope that this will be regularly reported to Parliament so that we can follow up and send it closely. As far as start-ups are concerned, I welcome the fact that you will take new initiatives in consultation with the sector. We shall therefore continue to follow that up. With regard to VAT on laptops, a bill will come to Parliament. We will therefore be able to discuss this item as well. As far as the dividends of insurers are concerned, you take a rather non-binding attitude, because it will only be a recommendation. To get out of this crisis, everyone will have to play their part, so I hope that the insurance sector will also take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u32	I thank the minister for the answers he has given us. Some are illuminating, others less. What we want, Mr Minister, is to ensure that, in practice, the banking guarantee scheme, that of the carry-over of professional credit to independent companies, but also the facilities for the carry-over of mortgage credit, work and are effective. We would therefore like to see companies or individuals who are actually entitled to do so have access to them under the best possible conditions. You really need to have a watch, which allows you to quickly see if the system is bearing fruit. Otherwise, we could have established conditions that are sometimes too restrictive, for example on the concept of a firm in difficulty, and have strengthened or accelerated the fatal outcome of some of them, economically. Or, for example, with regard to mortgage loans, we might realize that the conditions of access, particularly in terms of formality and the preparation of the file, which must be complete at a certain point in time, are so rigid that many people, who have not had the opportunity to put their files in order quickly, may miss the measure. So we need to have a quick report that will allow us to see if we don't shoot next to the ball, to use a metaphor. On this subject, I really count on you. Time's running out. Three minutes isn't much. I would have liked to have a more in-depth debate with you on the issue of dividends. I would like to know whether all of the aid that we are aligning is compatible with dividend distributions, or even equity buybacks, which can potentially consist of company emptying operations, whereas tomorrow they will need all their own funds, all their cash flow, to be able to reinvest and redeploy economically. We'll get back to it. My group has tabled a motion for a resolution. The aim is precisely to expect companies to be helped to have an ethical and responsible approach in return, particularly in the field of dividend distribution, but also in fiscal and social terms. This is a debate we wish to have with you when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Especially with regard to frontier workers in the Netherlands, there seems to be some work to be done, although this is a very important item for the people who are facing it. I assume that in the next few days there will be clarity so that those people can be reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u34	Minister, with regard to banks and loans granted or not to households, SMEs and independents, we must act now and analyse the reality of these loans, whether or not they are granted. In itself, the signals are rather negative. It is not a matter of deciding now to launch a monitoring. We have already had to wait for the decree of special powers to be published in the Monitor, a monitoring would further delay the results by a few months. It is now that we must act to see if there is no blockage. Banks received billions from the state in 2008, but they continue to do what they want. When the situation is favourable, they give loans to pull-out, even if they create over-indebtedness. At other, more critical times, they drastically restrict loans. We can't let them. Otherwise, the incompatibility between the private ownership of banks, their pursuit of profit at all costs and a useful banking activity, necessary for the company, will no longer be hidden. We will then have to renationalize the banking sector, and I do not think that is an option for you. At least, seriously control these banks and do not allow them to do anything. The Royal Decree provides precisely for this case in which a bank systematically refuses to grant loans. Apply it and control what's going on in the field! It is a pity that the example of Denmark does not inspire you, because this country shows an important sign, namely that we must help companies that are in difficulty but not at any price, not to allow dividends to be distributed, not to allow the redemption of own shares, or to companies that are registered in tax havens. If Denmark could impose such conditions, why could Belgium not? We must stop allowing big companies to do anything. There is also the issue of overprofits: there are plenty of companies and SMEs, independents and employees in difficulty, but there are also a few companies, some sectors that take advantage of the coronavirus crisis to make overprofits. I think this should lead to an overtaxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u35	I'm not gonna plead for control, regulation, blush. I want to start with a positive message. The Brico, one of the retail stores where I'm going, is open again. The answer to the question of how they had covered that period was: I was very happy and grateful that within the week the premium of EUR 4,000 had been paid out without having to provide an excessive amount of documents. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u36	We applaud all measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u37	For me, the message is that we must ask ourselves whether what we are doing here so efficiently should not go through with all the government's pay-out systems, including temporary unemployment. Can we not tackle things much more easily and directly at this time of digitisation? Can we not draw lessons from this period, in which we show that as a country, as a government, as a business, we are manoeuvrable and able to respond to change? My question is that this message is conveyed very clearly to the workers and employers, the other Group of Ten, who may not always have been bold and courageous in the past to question the existing regulatory structures. There's an evolution there, too. Times are changing. We must have the courage to question the functioning of our social system, our legislation and our regulation. I hope you will include this in the dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. The length of your answer shows that a great deal is happening at the moment. That is also a good thing. I have two observations. I note that you are neither opposed nor enthusiastic about the Danish example. This may have to do with the fact that it did not appear in the initial question, but that does not alter the relevance of the question and the inspiring nature of what Denmark has done. Let me be very clear. This is a guiding principle for our group in the near future. Reciprocity and solidarity help us through this crisis, but must also be the guiding principle afterwards. We have a text ready to enforce that companies which somehow receive government support should not be linked to tax havens in any way. That seems logical to us. I hear a similar intention from Mr Laaouej. Our group is therefore seeking a majority in this Chamber to anchor solidarity. I hope to find an ally in the government and in you. I am pleased that you yourself indicated that there are conditions attached to the file of SN Brussels Airlines. I think that's a logical position. I think you should add a condition to what you have already mentioned, namely the climate issue. I fully agree with Mr Van den Bergh on this point, who says that we are Europe. When companies knock on the door of Member States, Member States should also think about the climate issue, prepare the Green Deal and also ensure a level playing field. The trains can today be jealous of the tax that the airlines can use. We can't do that for five or ten years. That is why I would really like you to include this point in future discussions and take into account the signals given in this House. I know that in the past you have been working on signals from Parliament, as in the bank guarantees dossier. I hope you will do the same here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u39	I did not go into more detail about the debate on the link to the non-payment of dividends. I've finished a bill that will be discussed in the Chamber next week. This is about advance payments, where we create the possibility in corporate tax to postpone the advance payments that should normally be made without getting a penalty. I have specifically stated that companies that want to make use of this do not make dividend payments, reduce capital and buy their own shares. I've incorporated conditionality into that. That will be discussed next week. As far as the Danish example of tax havens is concerned, I have no problem taking that with me. It's not always obvious. For example, there are Belgian companies operating in Panama. Is dredging the Panama Canal a tax haven activity? No, it's an operational activity. In itself, I have no problem taking that with me. I just want to say that it is not so easy to make that quite clear. In principle, it concerns companies that use tax havens to obtain an excessive tax advantage there. In practice, however, it has been shown that this is not always so obvious. In any case, in the draft bill for discussion next week, the link has already been made with dividend payments, capital reductions and the purchase of own shares.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the very important clarification. What you're saying is more than relevant. I'm glad we've already taken steps on dividends. Let us use the next week to see where we can land on tax havens. You do not call it obvious, but we do see opportunities for reporting. I welcome the step forward that you are announcing and then there are a few days left to work around tax havens. That too is a question of not only common sense, but also of necessary solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for replying implicitly to my questions that have been forwarded to you. I was stuck on another committee for a while. I want to talk about three things. Firstly, the banking agreement. We need an effective reporting of the site, including what you rightly referred to as the six-month delay, which can also start a month later if you could not have indicated it before 1 April, as you say in your example. I am getting signals about this from the field; we will have to follow up exactly what is happening there. I am also pleased to hear you say that if there are self-employed or SMEs who do not 'wrongly' get the necessary funding, you will look at this. We will therefore soon be given a report on what is happening on the ground, in order to take additional initiatives if necessary. You agree, I think, that we should prevent "healthy" self-employed or SMEs from getting overwhelmed by this crisis. Secondly, with regard to Europe, we need a coordinated approach, which Europe calls a coordinated fiscal action. Tax is then a very broad concept. We agree with what Mr Laaouej and Mr Calvo have said. We are in favour of European solidarity. Without solidarity, Europe cannot continue to exist, to put it bluntly. We believe that the slopes relating to mutualisation should be adequately investigated. Whether it's called a corona union or not, it doesn't matter. Something has to be done. We're gonna have to make some of the debt in common, I think. We hope that we will have more explanation from the Prime Minister in committee. Thirdly, you referred to the principle of the Danish example. When it comes to dividends, shares and tax havens, you have an ally in us. I assume that together we will examine the principle of tax havens carefully, and we will work out a pragmatic and effective solution for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u42	Mr President, Minister, over the past few years, the government has drawn up a number of regulations to help our companies overcome the crisis, which has just been discussed in detail in the course of the questions. In addition to the establishment of ERMG, which should address inter alia the impact of the corona pandemic on companies, sectors and financial markets, and the additional involvement of the National Bank, an agreement was also reached on a EUR 50 billion credit guarantee plan as a temporary rescue buoy. The possibilities of the various investment funds, such as participation through the FPIM, are also on the table. In my view, it is equally important, in addition to the efforts we make as a government, to look at the opportunities offered by private money. Those possibilities are available. However, given the precarious situation of companies today, I believe that incentives are needed to convince people to continue to participate and therefore to raise fresh capital. These incentives can, of course, only be possible under the condition that as many undesirable effects as possible are excluded. These must be very targeted incentives, effective in order to maximize employment, incentives without the public authorities throwing money at them. Capital is important to boost equity and thus improve solvency. Improved solvency in turn guarantees greater acceptance of credit. The current situation is indeed precarious. The outbreak of the corona crisis will cause us to face an economic crisis after the health crisis, even if your fellow Minister Muylle is reluctant to admit it. Cash-flow problems affect a large number of companies, and in this respect the measures previously taken are rather provisional to keep the situation under temporary control. We also need to look at the medium term, and we can see that the problems for a large number of companies will persist. Minister, what measures have you taken with the government in this regard and already deployed to improve the solvency of companies? As needs may differ between large companies and SMEs, have the measures been diversified? What combination of efforts do you consider feasible as a minister? Finally, not insignificantly, what are your views on fiscal incentives to transfer private money to companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u43	Mr Van Lommel, we have already answered this question in part during the topical and urgent debate. However, you are right in saying that the measures we have taken so far focus mainly on the liquidity problem: the difficulties that businesses face at the time of a very heavy fall or drop in income in certain sectors, while certain costs continue to run. There we have tried to take over a number of costs through temporary unemployment and by postponing a number of things: deferring the payment of current loans to banks and postponing the payment of taxes. In total, we have allocated more than EUR 5 billion to delay. However, it is clear that the second element of the discussion, after liquidity, will be solvency. The capital structure of a number of companies will be significantly weakened on the basis of a long period without revenue. Especially for companies that have a capital structure that wasn't that strong, that can have a lot of impact. We are in full consultation, mainly through the ERMG, in which many economic actors are represented, to develop measures that respond to this. These measures have not yet been fully developed, so I cannot give you any details on them, but I can indicate which categories are being looked at. Firstly, we are looking at fiscal measures. Measures could be taken on how the losses incurred this year are being dealt with in order to ensure that capital is being eaten away by these losses. That is a first category that we are looking at. In a second category one looks at how to make temporary capital injections possible. These are not bridging appropriations, because the problem of solvency is not solved by banks; solvency is linked to the strengthening of capital and therefore bank loans are not at all applicable to this. A third element concerns mainly an area in which the regions are active and which is fully within their competence. Another element that has also been mentioned is the question of how we can make it attractive for private capital to do so. We must be realistic in this respect. For many private capital providers, it is just as stormy at sea as it is for companies today. Many private capital providers also see that the companies in which they have invested have serious problems. Their first approach will often be to keep the companies in which they already have a stake out. We're looking at the problem. An additional system that could be used and discussed with the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund is that of guarantee schemes. Guarantees could make it somewhat safer for private investors to make capital injections into companies. You also raised the question of whether a distinction is made between large and small companies. Both are being watched today. I can imagine that at some point we will have to look at what lens is being used to determine where aid is being granted or not. A number of elements can be considered in this respect. Employment is a clear way to look at that, just as the systemic effect is a way. In fact, if a particular company goes overboard, it may attract hundreds of other companies, which is a clear argument. The preservation of decision-making centres in our country is also an element. Those are arguments that can be made. That is an overview of the way we are looking at it today. It is clear that in the coming months the solvency debate will be much more than the liquidity debate at the centre of attention. I'm rounding up. In any case, there is no subsidy, no credit or whatever that has more effect than just turnover. Ensuring that a company can re-open is therefore the best measure that can be taken. So we are working on this point now, together with the exit group, which has often been discussed, for the National Security Council next Friday, in order to see how we can make companies start up safely again. This may mean that the boot will be at 15% of the capacity, but that is still more than the zero capacity they have today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's true what you're saying. The most important thing is to increase turnover, but we must bear in mind that after this health crisis and the start-up of businesses, all this has not yet been done and there is an economic crisis. You mentioned a lot of measures. As far as private capital is concerned, you say that this is currently being looked at. This is a debate that will certainly be held in the coming months. Minister, I do not think we have that time and we will have to make that decision in the very near future. This is quite essential because it concerns the employment and future of our companies. I think we need to move a gear up now. That is why we have tabled a motion for a recommendation in which we ask the government to develop the necessary incentives to get private capital to the companies. Minister, I hear this is a piste under investigation. I am therefore confident, or I should have, that this motion will eventually be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic153x.u45	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: The Chamber, - heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel to the Minister for Finance, responsible for the fight against tax fraud and Minister for Development Cooperation on the strengthening of companies' own funds due to the corona crisis, - heard the Government's reply; - whereas the corona measures and the economic crisis resulting from the crisis have a strong liquidity impact on many companies that are part of our economy; - whereas the equity of many companies is insufficient to survive the crisis; - whereas an increase in bankruptcies would have a serious impact on employment in our country; - whereas, in addition to banking solutions and investment funds, there is a strong need to strengthen the capital of companies and thus improve solvency; - whereas a mix of measures should be developed by the Government; - whereas additional private capital may complement the strengthening of own funds in addition to the measures already taken by the Government; - whereas the precarious situation may encourage the transfer of private capital to companies by means of fiscal incentives; - Asks the government - take the necessary measures to develop fiscal incentives for capital injections to channel private funds to companies in the context of the strengthening of own funds. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: The Chamber, - Having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel to the Minister of Finance, responsible for the fight against tax fraud and Minister for Development Cooperation, on the strengthening of the own funds of companies following the crisis of the coronavirus; - Having heard the Government's response; - Considering that the corona measures and the economic crisis following the health crisis have a strong impact in terms of liquidity on many companies that are part of our economy; - Considering that the capital of many companies is insufficient to survive the crisis; Considering that an increase in the number of bankruptcies would have disastrous consequences for employment in our country; - Considering that, in addition to banking solutions and investment funds, there is an important need to strengthen corporate capital and thereby improve solvency; - Considering the need for the Government to develop a mix of measures; - Considering that additional private capital could complement the strengthening of own funds in parallel with the measures already taken by the Government; - Considering that, because of the precarious situation, the drainage of private capital to enterprises could be encouraged by means of tax incentives; - Asks the government: To take the necessary measures to develop tax incentives for capital injections in order to drain private funds to enterprises in the context of the strengthening of own funds. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
