ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u1	I would like to apologize to our President, Thierry Warmoes, who cannot be present today. We have a topical debate on the agenda. For this debate, we will follow the usual format adopted since the beginning of the crisis: 8 minutes for groups of 3 members, 5 minutes for groups of 2 members and 3 minutes for members alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u2	Madam Minister, I would also like to hear exactly what is meant by the measures which have now been announced in the wake of the outbreak. The mortality rates on Statbel have been within the expected limits in recent months. The increase in the number of infections does not seem to change that, fortunately. The burden on hospitals does not seem to be a problem either. The aim of the measures can therefore no longer, in my view, be to control hospital capacity. That was important in the first phase, we agree on that, but the situation is completely different today: we know the virus better, we have more protection material, we test more, there are more light symptomatic or asymptomatic cases, because we test more, and the positive tests rather are in a younger population. Moreover, we have been working on measures of all kinds for six months now and they are starting to weigh up. I therefore think it is most important to give society and the economy oxygen in a safe way. In order to do so, new fireplaces need to be accurately mapped so that tailor-made and local measures can be taken, if and where necessary. Is that what you're doing right now? At this stage, testing, tracing and quarantine are of paramount importance. But we have to read that everything seems to be not yet on track. It was in the newspaper today that people who return from a red zone and have completed the form will not be contacted if they do not get tested. The key was supposed to be at Sciensano's. How come that wasn't okay? Mr. Secretary, are you aware of this? What did you do and when? When will that be okay? Do we have a view of the number of people returning from a red zone, but doesn't fill out the return form at all? What can play an important role in an containment strategy is the analysis of sewage. A written reply to a question I asked last week shows that it is still not operational in Belgium. The Netherlands has been working on this since March 2020. Sciensano would also play a central role in this. When will this aspect of the containment strategy be fully operational? Furthermore, we hear from Professor Van Ranst that a recontamination would have been detected in Belgium. I'd like to get some more details on that. Is this another sick person or is it an asymptomatic infection? In relation to the count of the deadly victims, we are told that the total is now reduced by 121, because there would be double counts and corrections to diagnostics. But who decided at the time whether or not a death was due to COOVID-19? Was that the treating doctor? Was that decision required to be documented on the basis of certain parameters in the patient file? Are we also looking at the number of under-deaths caused by any other conditions? Is this to be taken into account to adjust the number of deaths likely to be caused by COOVID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u3	I would like to build on the questions I raised at previous committee meetings. My colleague has already referred to it. Minister De Backer then informed us that this was being investigated and that the number of infections of returners from red zones was negligible. But today we hear from the media that more than one in five of the infections originate from people who have returned from abroad. The discrepancy between the media reports and the Minister's assertions at the previous committee meeting raises some questions. So I would like to make that clear. My main plea remains that we must continue to follow the path we have been following so far and that is the right one. This means that we must keep our economy running and impose as many social and hygienic measures as possible, so that people are protected from contamination. Since we haven't been rid of the corona virus yet, that's the best approach: we have to learn to live with the virus. It is also important to have a clear view of the origin of the infections and the precise risks. At the moment, the trade and the catering industry are still very heavily marked. For example, in our city, those sectors are very strict in complying with the directives. I believe that there is a trend break with the previous measures, but above all we need to maintain the measures. We can only do this if we fulfil the necessary conditions. So we'll find out where the infections are coming from and we can do what we need to do. Thirdly and finally, I would like to return to what you announced a few committees ago, in particular the psychological support for care workers. In terms of workload, the situation is indeed more or less under control there, but of course not in terms of psychological pressure. It's gonna be urgent. I hope that today you will be able to comment more specifically on what exactly is envisaged when hospitals can use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u4	Mr Minister, Minister, with regard to the flu vaccination and phasing, I would have liked to know whether you can confirm that the 500 000 additional flu vaccines ordered are actually coming to our country. You also announced a phaser of the division. How does it work in practice? How are occupational health services provided? Moreover, how will the registration of patients be done? My colleagues tell me that the residential care centres are currently ordering a double number of flu vaccines, so two flu vaccines per patient. Are you aware of that? How will you deal with that? The pharmacists also have long waiting lists of reservations, including for patients with a risk profile. Will the pharmacists be able to deliver their patients with those flu vaccines? You also asked the wholesalers to provide a buffer. What does that mean? Which one is the underlying thought? With regard to the COVID vaccine, I would have liked to know what is going on with the agreement you are agreeing to, in particular the European agreement concluded with AstraZeneca. Is there a clause describing the liability and financial consequences of long-term side effects? You are contradicting other channels in that regard. What's in that clause? Can we look into the agreement? Have you agreed to a distribution key with the firm at this time? How many vaccines are coming to our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u5	Mrs. Depoorter, for the translation service it is very difficult to work with your barking dog in the background. Can you fix that, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u6	I'm here alone right now. If you give me a minute, I can keep him quiet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u7	Thank you, Madam President. I was just typing that I couldn't follow through the barking and crazy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u8	I'm just gonna take my dog on the lap.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u9	Maybe today is Dog Day, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u10	I don't know. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u11	You may continue your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u12	Madam Secretary, do you already have a key and how many vaccines are coming to our country? Is this a precedent? Will you negotiate with other firms or manufacturers in this way? I've asked you a few times about the vaccination equipment. Can you also confirm at this committee meeting that there will be no shortage of vaccination material? I would remind you that the United States has bought 400 million shots and our neighbouring countries have also made a purchase. As regards remdesivir, you said last week that it works optimally in patients who are severely ill and receive oxygen, but that does not exactly match the clinical study. Remdesivir works optimally in severely ill patients who can still breathe themselves. What guidelines have you given to the doctors in this respect? Is the medicine being used properly, given that you are contradicting the clinical trial? Do you have a pharmacodynamic analysis? That's what I asked for last week. Mr Minister, I would have liked to have heard from you how much the budget for refundable antigen tests is, in particular, the antigen tests carried out by the company Coris BioConcept. How many of DiaSorin's serological tests have been used and reimbursed at this time? After the publication of the Danish study, we can actually say that this is not an optimal purchase. Do you still support that decision? Have you taken steps since the hearing to check whether what was claimed there was correct or not? Can you explain these steps and the conclusions? Are you still behind the FAGG's top man who was questioned here?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u13	Madam President, I will speak on behalf of all the colleagues for the PS Group, if I may. Minister, Minister, we were not expecting a great revelation, a great revolution at the last CNS. So we were not surprised. We were more so the next day by the slinging of experts by some of your colleagues, judging them to be responsible for the current cacophony. Indeed, cacophony reigns, we keep repeating it, but the experts are there to advise and the executive, the government, is there to decide, decide, assume, communicate. If there is a cacophony today, perhaps it is precisely that this role is not sufficiently assumed. Let me turn to the specific cases. Mr De Backer, you were talking last week about the tests: 90 000 tests by the end of September, 90 000 tests, while the laboratories still tell us that they will not have the equipment in time - the deliveries are waiting -, that they do not have enough swabs, that they may not have enough reactive products and that they will also not have sufficient staff. The market lacks a workforce that meets expectations and the labs fear that they will not be able to take on the mission. It is also apparent that, today, too many results are still being achieved in too long a time frame. Seven laboratories, two of which are important, broadcast 100% of their positive cases past the four-hour delay as expected by Sciensano. In Brussels, just 37% of the results are transmitted in less than four hours. What attitude are you going to adopt to correct the shot and arrive at these 90,000 tests? This is a real policy. There's an overload in hospitals. We find that there is a need for general practitioners to help in front-line sorting. It is clear that today they can bring added value. Strengthening the first line is the first way to prevent the virus from circulating. However, there seems to be a blockage at the federal level for the creation of new sorting centres, particularly in Brussels where there is a need. Will you give more INAMI numbers to meet the needs of the field? Will you evaluate the effectiveness of screening centres and adjust the screening strategy accordingly? Minister, is this target of 90,000 tests that we hope and that you support and defend, a commitment by the government for the month of September or not? The second question concerns quarantine. You both mentioned it last week as the key to success. Today, however, we see that too many Belgians return from red areas without being tested. If they don't get tested, then there's no tracing and I'm afraid there's no quarantine either. What solutions do you envisage to ensure compliance with these expected measures? You said last week that this was an individual responsibility. We need more than individual responsibility! The Belgians are now demotivated. They can't see. Less than 35% say they are still willing to voluntarily follow the measures, because they no longer see any sense in them. Quarantine must be respected. Do you intend to take any action? What will they be to guarantee this compulsory quarantine for Belgians returning from red zones? This is even worse from the moment we know that some do not hesitate to leave airports in the Netherlands or Germany to these destinations in the red zone. If this is the key to success, make sure it is implemented! I will also return, Madam Minister, to the support of psychiatric units. Three months ago, I asked you about this in order to point out to you the feeling of being left behind. Since the end of the first wave, coerced hospitalizations have exploded there. There is a clear lack of beds. There is also a shortage of staff (weary staff, during holidays, etc.) Overoccupation is not without consequences on the well-being of patients already so vulnerable, but also on the risks of contamination. The workload is unsustainable and the staff is exhausted. Minister, are measures being considered to increase the number of places and ensure quality support? How do you intend to supplement the shortage of staff? Are you considering the granting of an additional budget requested by these units? What is the protocol to be followed for a patient who would be tested positive in a psychiatric unit to ensure effective care while taking into account his or her vulnerability? Salivary tests could reveal the fact that they carry coronavirus in a very short time - faster and more comfortable tests - and that they could provide good answers in the sports field, in prisons, but also among the healthcare staff. The ULg has also developed a self-collection salivary test. A study is commissioned by the Task Force and is currently being conducted by several universities. What are the results? When can they be known? How is this study going? We cannot avoid addressing the issue of vaccination. The Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) decided that Belgium could access developing vaccines from AstraZeneca. The decision is the responsibility of the Interdepartmental Conference of Public Health. If there is to be membership, absolute transparency in terms of efficiency and security will be required to gain people's confidence, so that they understand that there is more interest in doing so than not doing so. Will you guarantee that transparency? What steps have Belgium taken in relation to the vaccine? Collective immunity is too weak. Are you considering compulsory vaccination as is the case with poliomyelitis? The NSC has issued an important direction. It is not the killing of the five-bubble that will only survive at the end of September clearly (which is an advance). The advance is the awareness that general measures relating to social contacts are difficult to maintain and that we must be able to get out of crisis management in order to engage in a longer-term dynamic. The Prime Minister referred to the creation of a new consultation unit that will incorporate new types of experts. The challenge is important. Minister, do you have more information on the composition of this evaluation cell? When will she meet? Do you agree with the opinion of the Head of the Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology on the communication to be addressed to the public? I leave it to Mrs Tillieux to ask the last question from the PS group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u14	Mr De Backer, I'd like to go back to the order from ZenTech for serological tests. Last time you talked to us about securing supply. But in this case, for serological tests ordered from the Liegeese company, the state did not secure, the state ordered via a purchase order. So things are clear. Therefore, I would like you to abandon the practice of the language of wood and tell us the truth, the whole truth about ordering serological tests which are still in Zentech's premises today and which cannot be used for the benefit of our fellow citizens. Mrs De Block, this brings me to a dossier that is very close to my heart, namely the one relating to family planning centres and voluntary termination of pregnancy. The family planning centres continued to work, but women were afraid to go either because of the virus or because they were afraid of being arrested during confinement, having to justify their presence on the road and explaining that they were going to a centre for an interruption of pregnancy. In doing so, several people introduced themselves and were out of time to practice an IVG. Have you had any feedback on this? What do you intend to do? I come back to our proposal, which is still on the table and for which we are awaiting the opinion of the Council of State. I hope that this will, in any case, allow all of us to reflect on the seriousness of these situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u15	Question No 55008280C by Mrs Tillieux was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u16	Madam President, Minister, Minister, both in Africa and in India we see that the infections with COOVID-19 involve less serious diseases. Scientists believe that increased immunity plays an important role, but also refer to massive vaccination with the vaccine against TBC. In the Netherlands, there is now a pilot project in which care personnel are injected with this vaccine. Are there such pilot projects in Belgium? If so, how do they proceed? If not, will this be started? What is the situation with care providers? If we were to start or if this were to happen, does Belgium have enough TBC vaccines to start such a project or possibly expand it further? What is the cost of such a vaccine? Could this possibly be an alternative to another, more expensive vaccine? Then there's the Antwerp test village. Apparently they are still below the test capacity. This would be mainly due to the too narrow case definition, which would result in too few tickets being released. Why is the case definition not further opened? Why, for example, are the essential sectors not involved anyway? Why can pupils and teachers, now that education is to begin again, not be tested voluntarily? Why don't vacationers from an orange zone get a code to sign up in the test village? Minister De Backer, however, last week you said that people who came from an orange zone were given a code anyway. It doesn't turn out to be. Why? Last week, you said you were in favour of setting up multiple test villages or mobile test labs. Is that also the view of the other members of this government? If so, why is it waiting so long to roll this out? Can the saliva test play a role in such test villages or mobile test labs to test, for example at the beginning of the school year, school-based youth and teachers? The control of so-called'red travellers' is still insufficient or even non-existent. A solution to this will only come, we read in the newspaper, on September 4th. Meanwhile, schools have been open for a long time, already four days, and everyone has returned from vacation. Only then will a solution be found. Isn't that too late again? Another question I would like clarification on concerns the immunity of pharmaceutical companies in relation to the long-term harmful effects of the vaccine. Madam Minister, last week you said that this is the normal course of action and that this is part of the procedure of negotiation. I would like to know what products this has already been used for in the past and what the consequences of this have been. Have there been cases where there have been long-term adverse effects? You told the press that the negotiations are still ongoing. In the meantime, where are we on that? Have the pharmaceutical companies already obtained immunity in Belgium? I'd like an update. If the vaccine is introduced, will it be compulsory in Belgium or will it rather be in line with a flu vaccine, which is recommended for risk groups? I often hear that it takes ten years for a vaccine to come on the market. Now a vaccine against COVID-19 would be ready after about a year. How is this possible? Do you understand that people are a little suspicious of this vaccine? Should we no longer focus on a study of medicines that combat the symptoms that prevent patients from entering the hospital or the intensive care department? All of this fits flawlessly with my next questions. After the mouth mask debacle of spring we now also fear a shortage of virus inhibitors. We know that Belgium was able to tap 15,000 doses of brake desivir through a European call for tenders. This would be enough until October. Knowing that scientists are expecting another wave in the autumn, we have to ask ourselves whether there will be an additional tender for the remedy remdesivir so that there will be no shortage in the autumn. The list of medicines approved by the FAGG in the fight against corona can be further extended as there are apparently some promising medicines in the pipeline. I am thinking, for example, of Favipiravir and Prednisone. I do not know what procedure should be followed in this respect, but can that list be supplemented so that other promising medicines can be added to this list? Finally, I have an additional question concerning the DiaSorin tests and the criticism of the clinical labs. "The Government's harassment must stop. The intimidation must stop. The FAGG's method of working has caused the eyebrows to frown in many clinical biologists." Those are some quotes that we could read in yesterday's article in De Standaard. The criticism focuses primarily on the working methods of Director-General Hugues Malonne. Again! That man has already come here to explain it and is not too good at the moment. Can this man maintain his position when his policies and image are questioned from different angles? In the same article we read that many hospitals are now using other validated tests. The huge supply of DiaSorin tests seems to be collapsing somewhere. Is this true? What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u17	For MR, I don't see anyone in the room and nobody on the screen. Then we'll go to the CD&V. Has Mrs Farih arrived?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u18	Mrs Farih says she's having trouble with the sound.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u19	Is there a solution to her problem? Will we continue with the other speakers and come back to this later?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u20	In the chat window, Mrs Farih tells us that she will make another attempt later, and that you may continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u21	My second question concerns the vaccine. Madam Minister, the expression "Having butter, butter money and a smile from the cream tree" seems to apply very well to the contract or possible contract for the purchase of vaccines by Europe from AstraZeneca, a purchase contract to which Belgium would accede. It seems important to me to repeat the history of this vaccine. No less than €72 million was allocated in public funds to Oxford University for the research of these vaccines, initially. We had the hope that the vaccine would not be licensed privately, but rather publicly. However, this was not the case since AstraZeneca interfered with the game and acquired the patent at Oxford University. Today, development is going further and Europe intends to pre-purchase doses of vaccine. Last week, we learned that the contract would contain a non-liability clause, which would in some way immunize the private company from any damages to be paid in the event of side effects. I would therefore like to ask you about this, because it could be a dangerous precedent. It should be noted that this vaccine was developed with public money. It can already be purchased and the company is already receiving financing to produce it in advance. There would then be this famous clause that would ensure that the public would take all the risks while the profits would be for the shareholder. The firm is supposed to be used to covering risks when developing a drug or vaccine. It would be logical for them, too, to assume their responsibilities for the risks they take, because accepting such a clause could lead us to expect quality problems, i.e., by not making themselves responsible for any side effects, they might take quality lightly. Considering this type of contract, would we not do the same for other firms, since other vaccines are also being developed? I'm thinking of Johnson & Johnson and the KUL. Do you have more information about the terms of the contract with regard to the price of the vaccine, its quality and the non-responsibility clause I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u22	Colleagues, we determine corona fatigue among a lot of people. However, it is necessary that we continue to comply with preventive measures to avoid a third peak, especially now that we are in the middle of the season of the chronic seasonal flu, which may include pneumonia, and are about to reopen the schools. It is often insufficient to inform people so that they can adapt their behaviour permanently or at least in the longer term. I believe that behavioral scientists can help us to motivate citizens to comply with the measures. Of course, we are calling for major adjustments, but the measures are not being taken for nothing. Is work being done to include behavioral scientists in all policy and advisory bodies? I think we should follow up closely on the reopening of the schools. The competent ministers of the Communities have decided to reopen the school doors, which is a good thing in itself, but not without risk, especially now that it appears that young adults can spread the virus in the same intense way as adults. We have heard Professor Van Gucht explain that the opening of the schools almost corresponds to the organisation of a mass event every day. The risk of contagion is not nonexistent. I'm a little worried about it because students can be in contact with vulnerable parents, live-in grandparents, at-risk patients. So these families face a very difficult challenge. How will they be able to organise themselves safely at home in the coming months in order to protect the vulnerable family member? What measures can they possibly take? Minister, I would have liked some information from you on the saliva tests. Professor Goossens strongly advocates the massive use of saliva testing, especially in autumn, to distinguish flu symptoms from symptoms of COVID-19. The advantage of the saliva tests is that people can perform them themselves. I understand that you are in favour of this. However, there is still a capacity problem. You have made it clear that 90,000 tests per day are possible by autumn, but when mass self-tests are carried out, that high number may also be under pressure. The laboratories also do not have an unlimited number of employees to process the tests. There will always be a certain limitation. There will always be a certain limitation. The idea that Professor Van Gucht has suggested several times, the pooling of tests, is perhaps an interesting piste. By this he means that samples of, for example, a full class group would be mixed, so that only one test has to be done. If it is positive, one can find very targeted in the class group who would have been infected. In this way one quickly gets a global view of possible contamination within a group of people, without using up a lot of capacity immediately. How do you view the idea of pooling tests and the use of saliva tests in collective facilities such as residential care centres, schools and so on? With what interval, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u23	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in view of Mrs Farih's inability to connect, she informed us that she was turning her questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u24	Madam Chair, please excuse me for interrupting, but I would like to point out that Mrs Farih did not raise any questions. Perhaps she addressed them to my colleague, Philippe De Backer, but not to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u25	We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u26	Madam Minister, Belgium has now joined the European Commission's agreement with AstraZeneca. It is very strange in this agreement that the EU has taken part in the company's demand that the buyer should pay for possible damages if something goes wrong with the vaccine later and legal proceedings are brought. A number of experts also consider this a very unusual way, and also a dangerous way of working. I would have liked to know exactly what it says in the agreement on those claims. Is Belgium going to go along with this? How many of the 300 million vaccines are for our country? In what way will vaccines be dealt with in our country when the time comes? Who's gonna get priority? In what way will that be determined? Who is working on these criteria? What will be the price of a vaccine? Madam Minister, yesterday we read in the press that there is no general threshold for schools to move to a new colour phase. Instead, there is a complicated long way through the RAG, the RMG, the National Crisis Cell and the municipality. In our view, this is another recipe for much doubt and especially for far too late intervention, with all the consequences. We have the impression that we are not learning from the previous mistakes here. That people do not get tested when they return from a red zone, we already knew that, but it turns out that the sanctions provided for are not being applied either. Madam Secretary, what are you going to do about it? Mr Minister, I would like to return to the issue of the DiaSorin tests, and I am not the only one who is doing so today. According to the latest reports, 300,000 tests would have been carried out by Belgian labs. I would have liked to know if that number was true. What will the government do in that case? What will these tests be used for? Will Belgium then have to pay the agreed price per kit in full? Mr Minister, we are told that the tracking app that Belgium ordered will be running from the beginning of September with volunteers from large companies and that it could be launched in mid-September. Is this information correct and can you give us some more details?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u27	Madam President, I would like to say a few words about psychosocial support for our healthcare providers. Madam Minister, I refer to your partial answer which you gave last time and which you are talking about an additional injection for hospitals. My contacts in the hospitals don't know what injection that would be about. Can you clarify that? We have just discussed the role of psychosocial managers. Is that a different role to that of the psychosocial intervention plan D2 as we know it now? You referred to the role of manager, but that remains an unclear matter for me. Mr Minister, on the issue of testing in hospitals, you have rightly announced an increase in funding for testing and triage centres and purchasing centres, but hospitals are also faced with higher testing capacity. Is there also an increase in funding? In the same order, you spoke here last time about additional funding of EUR 50 million for the national platform bis, linked to the seven university hospitals. Can you clarify what the EUR 50 million will be used for? Mr Minister, in addition to what other colleagues have already asked, can you disclose the validation studies relating to that DiaSorintest announced by you and the FAGG? It would be a good thing if we could get these two studies out to the public to see if they were effectively tested and validated in sufficient quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u28	Concerning the funding of hospitals and the loss of their funding due to Covid19: can you take stock? And clarify the timetable?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u29	Madam Minister, there is obviously a need to continue with the barrier measures. However, with regard to surveillance of the epidemic and the effectiveness of measures on testing, tracing and isolation of positive carriers, a wide range of questions persist. First of all, I would like to return to questions which I have already asked on several occasions, in particular the fact that we can facilitate the testing of tourists returning from orange areas, as is the case for tourists returning from red areas. I would also like you to answer my question – this is the fourth time I have put it to you – on the mobile screening truck that has been fully equipped with the co-financing of civil security, which is stationed in the Crisne civil protection barracks, while it could come to strengthen the testing villages. I would also like to see clarification on the development of testing for tourists returning from a red zone. Indeed, it is not enough to say that they are not necessarily being tested. The question is what measures are governments taking to be much more effective, to motivate them to do this test, and to isolate themselves? As regards the rate of contact, the rate of effective isolation, the way in which the tracing and triggering, on the timing of the tracing, I refer you to the questions that I have tabled. As for the rest homes, I saw that we were starting to rescreen. Are things clear in each Region? Can you take another look at the issue? You spoke last week about the federal testing platform, but I remember that, at the meeting on Friday, August 21, the CHU UCL in Namur, whose laboratory was one of the first to be approved in the fight against VOCID, had not been invited to this meeting. Why? What about it? With regard to the monitoring of the epidemic, I would like to see clarity on cluster mapping. Could it be made available? Does the interaction with the mayors take place in the most efficient way possible? One can question this because they have informed me that the information given to them relates to the neighbourhoods and streets of the persons concerned, but that they cannot interact with them. Does this not raise questions in terms of effectiveness, particularly as regards the importance of isolating these positive people? With regard to surveillance, there is the challenge of being able to set up a random serology sample to regularly monitor the importance of the epidemic. Has this been done? If this is not the case, would it not be important to do so. As far as the vaccine is concerned, my colleagues have asked you a series of questions; I have also tabled them, particularly with regard to the figures, the price. Has the working group considered whether or not there is a need for vaccination, whether or not there is a need for prioritisation? In addition, are specific clauses accepted with these firms, whereas they are not usual with other vaccines administered in Belgium? With regard to nursing homes and psychiatric hospitals, I am sure you have read the call for help from psychiatrists, including Dr. Depuydt, but also a series of caregivers. What are your answers and the aids that can be provided to them? It would be appreciated if we could take stock of the funding of hospitals. As for the DiaSorin, I have a series of specific questions, Minister De Backer, and I hope you will answer them. As I also asked you, I would like to have at my disposal (I had already said so when Mr Malonne had come to the hearing) the studies carried out on validity. The AFMPS said it would transfer them to us, but we still haven't received anything. I hope that we can have transparency on all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u30	Mrs Fonck, I would like to pay attention to the respect for speaking time. I didn't mean to interrupt. I know that last week was hard work and that we all wanted to reply. I do not want to deprive you of speaking time. Nevertheless, I would like to point out to you that you will be attentive to it next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u31	Madam Minister, on this subject, I must add that whatever vaccine(s) is ultimately chosen by our government, it will be necessary to convince the public of its usefulness, especially after the sagas we have known about masks or tests. Does the government have a strategy for this? Is the issue of making vaccination compulsory on the table? For the rest, I also wanted to ask you about other issues that I think are fundamental. As far as the virus itself is concerned, we are constantly hearing, and this is an excellent thing, that the number of infections, hospitalizations or deaths continues to decrease. Besides this, it is also understood that the virus would have mutated and would be less dangerous. In any case, that is what is established by a certain study. In view of this thesis, I would have liked to know the point of view of the Minister of Health. Do you consider that this decline in numbers is solely due to respect for the barrier gestures or would it also be related to this famous potential mutation of the virus? Do we have a body in Belgium today to monitor possible mutations in the virus? We have also seen in Belgium the first case of reinfection with VOCID-19. Here again, do we have studies in Belgium on the effects of the virus on our immune system? Are these cases of reinfections listed, monitored and analysed in order to be able to share these analyses internationally? I should also, as some of my colleagues have done, share my concern about the lack of awareness among those returning from travel, particularly at the Brussels-National airport, but this obviously also concerns regional airports. Apart from the form that these travellers must complete upon arrival at the airport, no specific communication is sent to them as to their obligations, while we have just learned that only 40% of those returning from the red zone are being tested. It is only after a few days that the mayors are informed of possible clusters to be monitored. Now, we know, after several days, it's too late. So I wanted to know what measures have been put in place to ensure that these travellers are properly monitored and that they are fully aware of their destination when they return from vacation. Finally, and this is a question addressed to Mr. From Backer, I wanted to talk about tracing. We know that the Coronalert mobile tracking application is entering its test phase. This is of course a good thing, because here too, many experts and academics believe that binding measures, such as the bubble of the five, such as the widespread wearing of the mask, could be relaxed, or in any case more targeted, but provided that the population adheres to it. Minister, how do you intend to reassure the public about privacy through this application? If this application is installed by a sufficient number of citizens, do you think that, as a result, certain health rules could be relaxed or in any case more targeted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u32	Minister De Backer, I have three questions for you. We have already discussed DiaSorin in detail. During the hearing a few weeks ago, you said that there would be a renegotiation of the price, because we would have paid too much for it. I'd like to hear where it stands with the renegotiation. Is that the right way? I read that there are still a lot of tests in stock. How many tests is this and what will happen to this? In the press we read a lot about Mr Malonne's own style and even half-threat to the hospital labs who wanted to carry out tests themselves. What's your attitude to that? What can you do to defuse the polemic between the FAGG and the labs concerned in the short term? No one has been served by such polemics that currently stand in the way of the proper functioning. I have also tabled a second question in writing and you promised me last time that you would reply in writing. This concerns the strategic stock of medicines. What's in that strategic stock? What happens to those drugs when they almost go down? It may be that the answer is with me and that I have not seen it, but I have not received it, subject to that. We've already talked about the corona test for returners from an orange zone. Yesterday I had asked about the criteria which are communicated to the general practitioners. When returning from an orange zone, you should contact the general practitioner, who then decides whether to test or not. Asking a GP teaches me that it is recommended to send as many people as possible. Then I wonder why these people don't get a code by default, like when they return from a red zone. Especially if we want to achieve the goal of 70,000 tests a day in the autumn and that is largely due to the general practitioners, who already do not know where to start or stop, I wonder how that will work. This is especially true if we want to test full classes and complete companies. If all this goes through the GP, I don't think we'll have many GPs by the end of the year. I also have three questions for Minister De Block. Much has already been said about the vaccine and the group purchase of AstraZeneca. There is a committee within the FAGG that advises the government whenever the opportunity for a group purchase arises. I was wondering whether that committee also said something about the claims that could still be recovered from us. How do you feel about that? We read and hear a lot about experiments with blood plasma and breast milk, which apparently contain antibodies. What is Belgium's position on this? What is your advice on this? Are there any short-term additional investigations planned that could give us more clarity? We also hear that more and more people are still tired months after a COOVID infection, are still not fully recovered and are not yet able to work. Are there studies that can help to find solutions in this sense? We have already discussed my last question several times. It concerns the nomenclature numbers that you have released for collaborations between dietists and motion therapists following a COOVID infection. I submitted that question yesterday morning, and yesterday afternoon there was a communication between the FPS Public Health and the French-speaking professional association for dietists. The Dutch-speaking professional association has not yet received an answer. I read in the reply that the French-speaking professional association has received two nomenclature numbers. For them it is not quite clear exactly how many sessions it is about. We fear that it is only one session of 60 or 120 minutes, while we would just make a plea for a long succession. Thus, people who are completely weakened and no longer have muscle mass with the right movement and proper nutrition can be put back on track. This way, we can help them achieve a healthier lifestyle in the long term. After all, we are increasingly hearing that diabetes and obesity do not give good forecasts for someone with a corona infection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to link up with last week's committee meeting because we did not have the opportunity to reply. I'm quite challenged by the procrastination you've been demonstrating for months to implement the testing strategy. It was understood that the establishment of a bis platform was well under way. That's a good thing. We learn from the past. But to do what? In fact, we would like to know the strategy behind the testing. For example, will staff at rest homes be tested weekly on a voluntary basis? Will teachers be tested on a voluntary basis on a regular basis? What are we going to do with salivary tests? What are we going to do with the serological tests? We have still not received answers to these questions that we have been asking for months. Mr De Backer, I come back to you today with three very specific questions. They are so simple that you could sometimes answer them by yes or no. First, did Zentech order tests or not? Has the RAG report on saliva testing been received? If so, what is its conclusion? What are we going to do with the DiaSorin tests? What will be done with Zentech's tests if they have been ordered? Madam President, as regards my questions to Mrs De Block, I refer to the written text of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u34	My first question is about doctors in training. Minister, you met with the SIMAX delegation to discuss VOCID premiums for physicians in training. What came out of that meeting? With regard to the psychiatric sequelae of people who have been hospitalized as a result of VOCID, a recent study carried out by experts at San Raffaele Hospital in Milan reveals that more than half of patients cured after hospital treatment for VOCID now suffer from various psychological sequelae (SSPT, anxiety, insomnia, depression, TOC,...). Has FPS Public Health planned to conduct this type of study? To date, what type of follow-up is in place for people who are clinically cured of coronavirus, but who continue to suffer from severe psychological problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u35	Minister, Minister, at the last National Security Council, our Prime Minister indicated that we will now be able to engage in a long-term dynamic of risk management. To be able to live with coronavirus, we know that it is essential that our country has a high-performance testing and tracing system. A recent study by a UK university shows that the transmission factor for the virus can be significantly reduced, i.e. reduced by 26%, thanks to the implementation of both devices. Regarding the testing strategy, you indicated that the next goal would be to achieve the 90,000 tests per day. In order to achieve this pace, a federal platform bis will soon be implemented. It is expected to be operational by the fall. In concrete terms, do we have all the necessary equipment for the establishment of this new federal platform? You have worked with laboratories and suppliers of reagents and devices to increase the number of daily tests. However, suppliers would not be able to deliver the equipment that is essential within the announced deadlines so that the clinical labs are more equipped and thus ready to handle the new requests scheduled for the fall. Last week, I asked you about the QR code system that invites people returning from risk areas to be tested. The computer system would still experience some inconvenience. This would partly explain the wait times for the results. In addition, I informed you that the caregiver who was not equipped with the proper system was forced to manually copy this code. In this respect, the healthcare staff will be equipped with this computer system so that they can reduce the administrative burden caused by this system. Increasing testing capacity means having additional front-line staff and we know the shortages affecting health care professionals. In this regard, you said that if the number of tests increased in the fall, we should not rely exclusively on general practitioners. It is our responsibility that INAMI would like to involve nurses more in sorting centres. What about it? Do you confirm this information? If so, how do you plan to involve these professionals in this mission while in the field, the shortage of these professionals is already feeling very strongly? Again with regard to testing capacity, it would appear that the Luxembourg government has organised a larger-scale testing through the optimal use of PCR tests using the pooling method, which considerably reduces the time taken to make the results available. Pooling is a solution that involves testing at the same time four patients instead of one in the same well. Indeed, a standard PCR plate has 96 wells, two of which are for positive and negative controls, leaving room for 94 patients. In an individual test, a specified amount of a patient sample is added to each well according to the methodology used, while in a pooling, a determined amount is added not only from a patient sample but from four patients per well. In Belgium, it would appear that this method poses a problem in the context of reimbursement by INAMI, since the test is not carried out on a single person, but of four at a time. Can you give us any information about this method? Is it planned in Belgium soon? If so, could the INAMI refund be adapted to the method? For citizens living on the border of another province to be tested, their attending physician will provide them with the contact details of the testing centre to which they must go. However, is it possible for these people to go to a testing centre in another province? In some border communes, it is up to me from fellow mayors that citizens have visited French screening infrastructures. Is there a procedure for exchanging the results of tests carried out by Belgian citizens in other countries, notably via Sciensano? If not, the figures provided daily may be somewhat incorrect. What steps could be taken to take these data into account and thus stick to reality? Are there any consultations with the authorities of neighbouring countries? Finally, with regard to the race for vaccines, a lead seems to be more privileged. The choice of Belgian authorities would be based on the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca. The Scientific Advisory Committee also gave a favourable opinion, but the final decision will be taken by the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health. What is your position with respect to this purchase? Last week, you mentioned negotiations with the European Commission on company immunity if the vaccine caused side effects. What is the current situation? If so, how can vaccination be promoted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u36	We went around the groups. The floor is open to ministers. I propose half an hour each to answer, so as to allow Members to reply this time. There will eventually be a second round thereafter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the various questions that I will try to answer as detailed and as structured as possible. Regarding the testing strategy and the questions of Ms Rohonyi and others, a new opinion was sought from the RAG and RMG on the testing strategy. There are some key elements here. Thus, our definition box remains quite broad. The patient with any symptoms can go through the general practitioner to get a test. This definition box is much wider than in many countries around us. I said that in my presentation last week. It is also important that contact tracing is effective for people who have been in contact with an index case, a high-risk patient, to be tested as quickly as possible. They are pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic or paucisymptomatic. They have an obligation to be tested and to remain in quarantine. We also do tests with asymptomatic people in a fairly broad way. Many people who are hospitalized without VOCID-19 symptoms are still being tested. People returning from red and orange areas also have the opportunity to get tested and even the obligation for red areas. Many screenings already take place in Belgium. The figures also show that there are between 20 and 25 000 tests per day, which is still wider than most countries around us. Another key element that was also included in the GAR notice was not to switch to mass screening with weekly or biweekly tests in the population. The RAG opposes it. For the moment, this type of screening is carried out in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which is, I think, the only country in the world to have done so. We need to track the pandemic, the clusters, the location of the virus. This requires a more focused strategy. For example, when a positive case is detected in a nursing home or institution, the entire nursing home, business or school is tested. People in contact with this index case are tested whether or not they are symptomatic. All the entourage of an index case must be tested. There are many ways to test pre- or asymptomatic cases. There is no discussion to limit this definition again, which would mean that people with mild symptoms could be missed. So we have to test them. Mrs Sneppe, the case definition is being discussed. The case definition is indeed very broad: those who show the least symptoms can be tested. Some people around the index cases, the positive tested cases, can also be tested. I call for the case definition to remain very broad. This will ensure that there will be a lot of testing in the autumn. Sciensano calculated that, including those who have respiratory infection symptoms due to flu or other, 50,000 to 70,000 people per day will present themselves. For this reason, to which you have rightly referred, we are really pushing up the testing capacity in the laboratories. That must be done in a good way. I'll say a little more about that later. There is indeed a need to consider how to quickly switch to collections where an outbreak is taking place. In this respect, protocols have been agreed on residential care centres and also on companies, so that business doctors can have access to make codes automatically, so that the business units can be tested quickly. For the schools, agreements have been made with the CLB doctors. With regard to schools, as you know, primary care is in the hands of regional authorities. At the National Security Council last week, I very much insisted on clear communication with the schools so that they know what to do and so that the lines are kept as short as possible. Where appropriate, it may be considered how the tests can be carried out through the local clinical labs or, where appropriate, through the national platform. We added another category at the beginning of August: preventive screening of staff in nursing homes. In this context, we will test the rest homes in a red area once a month. As I indicated last week, we contacted the regional agencies directly, we asked for the lists of people to be tested and the rest homes in which they work. We are still waiting for the lists of the various agencies – AViQ, Agentschap Zorg and Brussels. The process works, but we therefore await the lists that these agencies will provide us with and the modalities for carrying out these preventive screenings. But we have introduced this category at my request. Then there are the discussions about the people who are outside these test categories. I am thinking of travellers who want to travel and who need a negative test. Then they can go to the lab and take the test. Then the price is also limited. There have also been cases in the Pro League, to answer Mrs Gijbels' question. We weren't aware of that initiative. Sciensano is not involved in any way. This is a contract between the Pro League and two hospitals, one to French and one to Dutch. I think that, firstly, we have made it very clear that this cannot be covered by health insurance. That has been a very clear position of the RIZIV. Secondly, there is also the observation that we have asked the laboratories to build a strategic stock to carry out two or three months of testing in the autumn. Here too, the deontology calls on the various partners of the project to have stock and hold it before testing outside the categories we consider priority. In any case, it is not possible to charge these costs to individual patients. I suppose a commercial contract has been drawn up between the two hospitals and the Pro League. I also have no knowledge of other sports or other cases where this would be the case. I am therefore counting on the hospitals in question to have a stock for a period of two to three months. Mrs Gijbels, you also ask about the number of tests that happens every day. You're talking about over 20,000. That's not correct. On 18 August 2020 we tested 26,782 people, on 19 August 23,000, on 20 August 24,145 and on 21 August 20,447. So we're well above the number of 20,000 tests. On weekends there are less because there are also fewer patients who offer themselves at that time. A number of doctors are undoubtedly enjoying their weekend rest. The possibility thus remains to fill in the capacity of 30,000 tests per day. Capacity is also used to screen extra if there are positive cases in rest homes, businesses and so on. You have also been able to see in the past week that this system is working well. We were able to switch very quickly in the event of a re-infection. There have been a number of outbreaks in rest homes and farms. I believe that we have been able to respond adequately to this request from the various regional agencies. They clearly have the lead as regards contact tracing and identification of clusters, as clearly agreed between the regions and the federal level. Mr Bertels asked how the estimate was made. The 50,000 to 70,000 tests a day we're going to have to do are an estimate of Sciensano. We see that with the monitoring of the flu syndrome that is done every year by the general practitioners, the network that follows it has put those figures forward. That is the figure we are aiming for from Sciensano, to test people who offer themselves with certain symptoms. These results will be made publicly available through Epidemio's website. It is also important to expand the capacity of laboratories. In order to carry out tests, different steps must be followed, including sampling (on which I will come back later), but also that of the capacity of the laboratory. As far as laboratories are concerned, it should not be forgotten that it is not state-owned enterprises, but private companies that operate independently. Their freedom implies a certain responsibility. We asked to build strategic stocks equivalent to two or even three months in order to have the capacity to test in the fall. I think we are in direct contact with the Commission on Clinical Biology. The discussions take place in a constructive spirit. Our first duty is to see how to support clinical biology laboratories to perform tests on machines already installed. In addition, discussions also addressed the computer plan. Adjustments have already been applied at their request (e-form, etc.) A website has been created (www.coronatracking.info) showing all the key elements already available since June for laboratories and sorting centres, including how to manage a high-performance information flow. We asked the labs what their capacity was, to know how to invest in machines, swabs, reagents to perform the different tests. The laboratories did this exercise and indicated the capacity they were capable of. They have already invested in different machines, reagents and others to reach a capacity between 35 and 55 thousand tests per day. You will understand that this is insufficient to reach the figure recommended by Sciensano. That is why the federal government has decided to invest itself. For this type of investment, the federal government has advanced EUR 10 million. The laboratories have asked to be able to contract with each other: if a machine or reagent is a problem in a laboratory, the samples can be transferred to another clinical laboratory, so that the deadlines will be managed. In the event that no laboratory is able to carry out this type of test, an agreement with the national platform will remain open. There are basically three types of machines. Some only work with a type of kit. When we look at laboratory by laboratory, yes, there may be shortages, because suppliers of these types of kits are not, for the moment, able to meet all the demand in the entire world. They therefore make a country breakdown of the number of kits available. If there are still laboratories that say they're in need of reagents, that's what it is. They have a machine that can, for example, perform 100 tests a day. They got 60 kits to do tests. So 40 tests are not used on this machine. Last week we pushed suppliers to increase the number of kits delivered to Belgium. Most suppliers have done so, with an increase of 50% or even 150% in kits that are delivered for certain types of machine. That is why suppliers cannot always guarantee that 100% is delivered week after week. This is also why contracts between clinical laboratories are so important. Where a clinical laboratory no longer has certain reagents, this sample may be transferred to other laboratories. It is impossible, and even the Commission of Clinical Biology acknowledges, to ensure that every laboratory can operate 100% at any given time, certainly on closed machines for which suppliers do not have enough production capacity. Other systems exist, automated systems for which it is also possible to use other types of kits, sometimes one or two other types of kits. We have also made contact with the different companies that produce these types of kits. We have already made available information to the Clinical Biology Commission in July to draw attention to the fact that such providers are capable of providing. For example, if the preferred supplier of a certain machine that can do 100 tests a day only delivers 60, there is the possibility of using other kits, and so the machine is more efficient in operation. Here too, the Commission is now on its way with the clinical laboratories to first validate this type of kit. If necessary, we can assist the organization of a purchasing group for this type of kit. A third system is the open system. That's where the bis platform will intervene. The bis platform will invest EUR 50 million, mostly in machinery, but also consumables such as reagents and swabs for sampling. But here, we're not competing with clinical laboratories. It is a completely different system that we are going to put in place with university laboratories to ensure that for the whole territory, we are adding a layer of 40,000 tests a day. To this end, we have asked through Marc Van Ranst's national reference laboratory what links can be made. In fact, the BIS platform is intended to function under the control of local clinical labs. The clinical lab will receive the samples and can then decide on which type of machines the samples are analysed. That's how seven locations were selected. Namur's CHU also requested to be integrated into this type of functionality. If we can add capabilities, we will. We have already responded that Namur's UHC will operate in the bis platform in consultation with the region's clinical laboratories to absorb an overcapacity that may occur in clinical laboratories. Namur's CHU is therefore included in the process. For the moment, we are purchasing all these items. Some machines have already been acquired, for other machines, we are completing the negotiations. The aim remains to have all machines on Belgian territory by the end of September and to be operational. The clinical laboratories that will receive these machines are already preparing their premises and other elements to perform these tests. As far as the other aspects of testing are concerned, there is no problem at the moment in terms of erasers. The laboratories should simply supply themselves there, just as the government is supplying itself and has made additional orders to carry out those tests. I have checked again with a number of laboratories and none of them is talking about a lack of wipers. I believe that the information we provided a few weeks ago on companies offering erasers is perfectly useful. Laboratories must take their own responsibility in this matter. We actually have 1 million wipers in stock. This was a question from Mrs Depoorter and Mr Rigot. This stock is used on the national platform, but also for emergency deliveries. The same goes for the tubes, by the way. We've already gotten some clinical labs off the hook. However, it is still intended that we should not act instead of acting. However, we can act as a kind of borrower or last resort in case of emergency. This will enable the national platform to remain operational at all times. I have already replied extensively about the reagents. The Committee on Clinical Biology agrees that this is the most targeted way of working. As far as the staff in the laboratories are concerned, there will have to be effective additional recruitment. We have therefore also made a call to the VDAB, Forem and Actiris to see which people currently unemployed may be eligible for such a position in the laboratories. In this way, the clinical laboratories can have sufficient staff. The FPS Public Health and the RIZIV have also indicated the diplomas of the people who may be able to work in the laboratories without having to attack the quality of the work done. This will allow other profiles to work in the laboratories. I therefore believe that the necessary steps have also been taken in this area. The last and most important point is the capacity to decrease. These are the first steps that need to be taken. I am concerned about this. I am concerned about the fact that there are currently about 135 to 150 triage posts in Belgium. The general practitioners do a lot of work to do these samples in the triage and guard stations. A test village has even been set up in Antwerp and a test village is also planned in Brussels. However, it will be important to provide sufficient steel extraction capacity. There is a protocol agreement between the federal government and the Länder on who bears what responsibility. Since the organisation of triage and steel collection posts is covered by preventive and primary health care, it is the regional authorities that have the lead. Mr Rigot said that the federal government was blocking the sorting centre in Brussels, but the opposite is true: we are making every effort to help the regions establish the different sorting centres in Brussels, but also in the rest of the country. A few weeks ago, we already asked the question of how to organise the triage centres differently and better. I am in favour of setting up a test village in each provincial capital, for example, where people can get access very easily, with drive throughs and the like. (...) Once again, we are waiting for the strategy that the regional authorities will pass on to us. We can then figure out how to support that with the federal level. For example, the RIZIV has already concluded agreements with the consortia of home nurses. In addition, contacts were also made with the deans of the faculties of Medicine to involve doctors in training. We are doing everything we can to put this right. For the very specific question of saliva and pooling, I am in favour of it, but we have launched a saliva study published on the AFMPS website and we have asked the RAG for advice on sampling and sampling in order to see what is best, the effects depending on the specificity of the different tests, which the RAG has indicated that nasal or oropharyngeal samples for diagnosis remain the preferred methods. Salivary tests remain interesting in the context of screening. We are analysing these solutions. We have two test projects: one for students in Liège and the other, in Antwerp, with Professor Herman Goosens to assess the effect of this type of sampling as quickly as possible. I am quite in favour of it if the scientific results are good, if there is a strategy behind it and if there are enough people to do this type of sampling, because the whole process behind it remains the same. As far as pooling is concerned, it's pretty much the same thing. There's a loss of sensitivity. There are different pooling strategies. An article has been published in the journal Nature describing the various existing procedures and protocols to do so: each has its own advantages and disadvantages. When prevalence increases, many positive pools are found, requiring re-testing in clinical biology laboratory platforms, which significantly increases their administrative burdens. I asked the national reference laboratory in Louvain to develop the protocols to know in which cases poolings could be used. There are already laboratories that currently use it and make a pool of two or three samples, for example, when looking at certain places and clusters. There was a specific question about the CT values. Indeed, we see lower CT values but higher viral loads are determined in tests. We have seen this because the CT values on the national platform are reported and monitored. But not every clinical lab is capable of that. It's not clear what the effect is. Is this about super-dispersors or not? We'll follow up on the C.T. readings. The national reference lab follows this up. Therefore, there is little point in reporting this to the patients at the moment. It may be interesting to follow it closely and to see how the pandemic is spreading among the population. As for the TAT of the tests – I described the different stages in my presentation last week – we exert great pressure on the laboratories to transmit the information to Sciensano as soon as possible, preferably one hour after the validation of a test. We see that most laboratories are capable of doing so. We also published a list of the time taken by laboratories to report their results to Sciensano. We are therefore completely transparent about this and we will put pressure on the laboratories to give their results almost in real time, not only to Sciensano to perform the tracing contact, but also to doctors and patients in their electronic records. And then they will be available as soon as possible. Of course, there are still a lot of steps ahead: the sampling, the way in which the samples are collected. Very often we see delays in samples that are collected for example Friday afternoons for labs that are not active during the weekend, so the samples sometimes stay until Monday. There must be a solution to this by the mutual contracts between labs. We can also ask for additional collections for the large triage centers; something that is already happening today. We must also, of course, be careful that, when results are known, doctors also communicate this to patients. Sometimes things go wrong there too. For example, when a result is digitally available, but one has not looked, or has not looked in the right place, or one is waiting to look. I can respect all of that, and this is not a reproach, but we face these situations from practice every day. A result is sometimes available after 12 hours, or at least less than 24 hours, but sometimes it takes two to three days for the patient to be warned by the general practitioner. We're looking at a whole system of IT to make all this as easy as possible. A lot of questions were asked about serological tests. For serological testing in general, laboratory reporting is done via the Sciensano database. Approximately 3,000 serological tests are performed per day. The percentage of positive tests is about 10%. But the conclusion is not very clear. With the RAG experts, Sciensano examines how to use serology in the future. Indeed, things have evolved over time. I remember that in March-April, the serological test was carried out on everyone. Subsequently, a lot of questions arose about this test. As a result, RAG and RMG were asked to address the issue of serology and the role of serology over time. I come to Mrs Fonck's question about seroprevalence. Sciensano, as many universities conduct studies on seroprevalence. I will mention only Professor Van Damme of the University of Antwerp who carries out repetitive blood studies from databases. Several studies are therefore under way. All the results of these studies are available on the Sciensano website. A little bit more about the discussion about the tests of DiaSorin. I would like to repeat what procedure has been followed and what steps have been taken here. In normal circumstances, a CE marking test can simply become active on the Belgian market. We have seen that at the beginning of the pandemic, in March and April, there were still a lot of questions about the reported quality of the tests. A CE marking is an exercise carried out by the company itself. That's why there were a lot of questions. Many international studies also showed that the reported sensitivity and specificity of the tests did not correspond to reality. Secondly, the idea at that time was to use the serological tests to get people in quarantine to take a serological test and not to let them come out of quarantine until they produced antibodies. That was then the context in which we functioned. At the same time, there was also a great fear that there would be insufficient serological tests. A number of them were under development and there was no view of production capacity. Therefore, sufficient serological testing has been requested as soon as possible. We will have to ensure that the laboratories in Belgium have sufficient serological tests. In addition, we have chosen to introduce an additional safety step. In doing so, tests that had a CE marking were also requested to go through a validation step. That order was given to FAGG and Sciensano to ensure that the reported sensitivity and specificity was consistent with what was being done by the companies themselves at that time. Let me quote from a letter sent by Sciensano to the clinical labs in April 2020. "It is important to underline that the April 2020 message specifies that each laboratory at individual level is responsible for carrying out a verification or validation for the implementation of each serological kit according to its own internal procedures. This is and will remain a legal obligation laid down in the Practice Directive to which each laboratory must submit." So we have not prevented certain labs from doing that validation. On the contrary, they had to do it. So the validation was done by the labs. There is a two element to which I would like to draw your attention. It is said that the FAGG and Sciensano have single-handedly chosen labs. Sometimes that's what happened to make speed. But at the same time, also in April 2020, a call was made by Sciensano to the clinical labs to run for it. I quote again from the letter sent to clinical biology laboratories: "Firmas and laboratories interested in the evaluation process can contact the FAGG directly to participate." We have opened this up. Therefore, there has never been any obstacle for laboratories to carry out evaluations and validations or any obstacle prohibiting laboratories from using certain tests. I think that is a first important element. A second element is that validation was entrusted to different labs across the country, based on the machines available to the laboratories and whether or not they had samples to carry out validation studies. In the case of DiaSorin, it was initially chosen to have the evaluation carried out at the HIS. That evaluation came back very positively. On this basis, it was decided to secure the tests. A few weeks later, there was indeed a report from AZ Delta, which itself contacted the FAGG, which reported that it did come up with other results. AZ Delta asked for a meeting to see how that could be done. Therefore, the inspection requested the raw data of that study together with the raw data of the study of the HIS to re-analyse and review. At the same time, the University of Liège was asked to carry out a third validation study. This third study confirms the results of the first study of the HIS. Some shortcomings have been identified in the analysis of the raw data and the way the validation study was conducted at AZ Delta. In addition, there are seven other international publications, one of which was carried out by the university hospital of Leuven. All these studies were published and can be consulted in PubMed. I can provide you with their references. These studies show that the specificity of the DiaSorin tests was around 99%. Even if it is compared with the Danish study criterion of 99%, the DiaSorin test is satisfactory. So that's an unreliable test? No, absolutely not. That's even in De Standaard's article. It is literally said by the three labs interviewed, AZ Delta, UZ Leuven and UZ Gent. They say: no, this is not an unreliable test, today there are tests that score better, that's right. The DiaSorin test scores approximately in the middle of the peloton. Again, those tests were purchased on the basis of information in April. We've been able to secure it. In this way, we were able to ensure that those tests could be carried out by clinical laboratories in Belgium. The validation studies were conducted in different ways and levels. I can give you the references to that. So I totally disagree with the headline above a number of articles last week that this would be an unreliable test. I find this sensational journalism rather than sound scientific research, especially when we know that there are five to six studies that demonstrate the specificity and sensitivity of the DiaSorin test in exactly the same way. I would also like to go into a second aspect in more detail. It was said that there was quite a bit of criticism from the laboratories of the FAGG's own actions. The FAGG has tried to secure those tests together with Sciensano. This was followed by a procedure which also existed in other European countries. France, Australia and the FDA have implemented exactly the same validation procedure as we have. We certainly didn't go overboard there. If, on the other hand, frictions have arisen, they must be resolved as quickly as possible. I asked Mr De Cuyper, Director-General of the FAGG, to organise a consultation between the various parties to discuss and clarify this face to face. So this can be resolved in a good way. My final point. Other heavier accusations were made in the press against people from the FAGG. When those articles came out, I asked for an internal, forensic audit to be carried out with the full agreement of Mr De Cuyper. In conclusion, this audit is quite clear: there is little going on and most of these accusations are absolutely unfounded. I give some information from the FIA's report: "Applications and suggestions put forward in the press regarding deontological problems with the verification and purchase of serological test kits of DiaSorin by the federal government are largely unfounded. Given the parameters, determined by the policy, and the action of the FAGG in general, we can say that they have been used in a duty-conscious way to ensure the medical supply chain and this in a compelling and risky context. The claim that the DiaSorin test would not be high quality or too expensive is not well founded. For the accusation to Mr Malonne that DiaSorin would have been favoured, there is no evidence whatsoever and is very unlikely." These are a number of things that I would like to make very clear here, on the basis of an internal audit carried out by the federal government. It is my feeling that if really serious problems had been identified that would have already surfaced. Action should have been taken by the FAGG and Xavier De Cuyper, but on the basis of the information available to FAGG and Mr De Cuyper today, I do not think there is much going on here. But once again, I think that we need to organise consultations in order to bury the hatchet between the various parties. Everyone around the table is in good faith and has done their best to ensure that serological tests in Belgium could be used in a good way. We are indeed renegotiating all these contracts. The aspect of price is, of course, one element of that. I also received confirmation from DiaSorin in July and it has already been announced that the price paid by Belgium is not more expensive than in other countries, except Italy, where the parent company is located. We are at the bottom of the price fork used for this test in other countries. This test is also on the list of tests that can be used in other countries. In that respect, I think we are also perfectly in the European platoon. These contracts are currently being renegotiated for various reasons. Firstly, the market has developed differently than most people thought in March and April. There is much more choice, much more freedom. Labs can supply themselves perfectly through the tests we have secured or through the tests they have validated themselves. There is absolutely no problem. The context of carrying out these serological tests is now perfectly clear. What is being paid back and what isn't? When is it? Who can ask for a test? In the meantime, all this has been clearly arranged. Of these DiaSorin tests, about 300,000 have been marketed today. They're used by 35 different clinical labs. They all had to comply legally to find that a good test. They had to do an internal validation to be able to use that test. The clinical context in which these tests are used is also the responsibility of a lab. These tests are used at different times for different types of patients, and that is precisely the responsibility of a clinical biologist to examine with the doctor which type of test is used. Those 35 labs have all said in Belgium there are probably dozens of labs abroad that the DiaSorintest is actually quite okay. Sciensano has been reviewed to conduct a post-market evaluation. A study is also ongoing there. Steels have been sent around to the different clinical labs for the use of the different tests, not only DiaSorin tests but also others. There too, the results of the information that has come back are very satisfactory. One hundred percent of users recognized the high-positive samples as positive, 90% of users recognized the low-positive samples. The remaining 10 % assessed the samples as borderline, but no one reported a false negative or a false positive. Also for the negative sample, the results were 100 %. In this respect, we have also done a post-market analysis, which shows that the various tests, not only the DiaSorin test, but also other, performant tests. I hope that's a bit of a sketch of what's going on around DiaSorin's testing. Mrs Depoorter, as far as the Coris tests are concerned, I have the figures I received from the RIZIV. The figures are only available until 1 August. 14,403 cases were detected with antigen tests for an amount of 239,000 euros in expenditure. This concerns the Coris tests. I have heard in recent weeks from a number of hospitals that the fact that more and more patients are being seen with high viral load makes antigen tests play an important role in the striation of patients in hospitals. With a high viral load, those tests can be really useful. It is therefore considered how these tests can be used. However, it is up to the hospitals to decide whether or not to continue using these tests. I believe that I have answered most of the testing questions. Mrs Gijbels mentioned the positivity ratios between Belgium and the Netherlands. It's very difficult to compare these positivity ratios. It is also unclear how certain test criteria are applied in different countries. On that basis, therefore, nothing can be said much. There was also a question from Mrs Depoorter about the quarantine and the fact that five days after a positive test people may interrupt their quarantine if there is a falling titre. I don't know about that. This is absolutely not Sciensano's advice. Sciensano's advice is as follows: "If you have been in contact with a positive patient, you should have a test carried out and quarantined. A second test may then be carried out at least five days after the first test so that the quarantine can be shortened if both tests are negative. However, if the second test is positive, one falls back into a positive test situation and has to be quarantined for seven days." This is the current rule. I don't know where that other information came from. In any case, it is not in line with Sciensano's advice. I would also like to point out once again that respect for that quarantine is essential to stop the transmission of the virus. In this respect, the regional authorities have been consulted on several occasions, since their decree determines how this quarantine is to be complied with, what the conditions are, how control is to be carried out and what penalties are to be imposed. In this respect, we continue to ask the regional authorities to ensure that this quarantine is complied with. They take measures such as local contact tracing and calling people. Elio Di Rupo informed me that in Wallonia, the call center of the AViQ telephones people after a few days to ask them how they feel. This practice demonstrates that the Regions are effectively monitoring quarantine on the ground. The list for the strategic stock of medicines includes essential medicines, such as curares and morphines and medicines that are important in the treatment of COVID-19, such as Fentanyl, Propofol and Atracurium. It also contains experimental medicinal products, which are kept in reserve or administered in low doses. This is the case with hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine. A study on its potential effects was published last week. This list is followed up by the FAGG, which manages the stock with a view to the next stock. If the expiry date of those products approaches, the Agency will distribute them as a priority for the market. I can give you the list of medicines in writing, so that I do not have to list them here and do not have to exhaust the speaking time too much. I now come to the questions and comments on contact tracing. Many questions relate to the red and orange zones. Again, cluster detection, follow-up of patients and returns from red and orange areas are a regional competence. The system is as follows: when a person returns from a red or orange zone or has gone abroad for more than 48 hours, he or she must complete a PLF. It is analysed by the databases. If you return from a red area, you will receive an activation code for testing. After completing the PLF, you will also receive an e-mail or code indicating that you have correctly completed the form. There are therefore two types of information planned. A whole series of information is also provided: respect for quarantine, testing, very concrete aspects. The federal level operates in the most efficient and automatic way possible not only to inform people but also to encourage them to be tested and monitored. When this PLF enters the system, it is directed to the call center of the Regions. People are treated as high-risk contact. The same procedures as for high-risk contacts apply to people returning from a red zone. After the first few weeks, we realized that more than half of the people were being tested. I agree that the people who are not being tested are certainly not quarantined either, in my opinion. There, we need a reinforcement that we have asked the federated entities to organize either a phone call after one or two days to call people who need to be tested and ask if they are quarantined or not. The choice was made by the Regions to send a text message. For me, it's good, but we have to follow up and make sure that people returning from a red zone are in quarantine. The figures show that there are about 1,000 to 1,500 people every day returning from a red zone and about 8,000 from an orange zone. Two thirds of people get tested when they return from a red zone, but there are big differences. In Flanders, the figures are much higher than in Brussels or Wallonia. We have asked the Regions to tackle this problem and to really enforce the quarantine, testing and monitoring of these high-risk contacts. The positivity figures are about 2%, but we also asked for follow-up, even if the first test is negative, to determine whether these patients were later in the system. It is perhaps for this reason that there is a misunderstanding between the figures I provided last week, the 2% that are tested positive every day when they return from a red zone and the higher number of those who were abroad two weeks before developing symptoms – they were perhaps not within the two days provided by the PLF. The important thing to get tested is to be quarantined. Even if you don't want to do a test, stay in quarantine so you don't contaminate another person. It is clear that this is the procedure to be followed. We have discussed for a very long time the automatic allocation of a code to returners from orange zones. The policy is based on the philosophy that returners from orange zones are advised to be tested at their GP on their return. This intermediate step is being used to distinguish between high-risk and high-risk individuals. If one has gone hiking alone in the mountains and no one has been seen, a mandatory test may not be useful. An online tool, which will be available from September, was chosen. The automated procedure is that anyone who comes out of the online questionnaire as a high risk person will be given the activation code to be tested and no longer have to pass the GP. For the record, we will refund the tests for all persons returning from a red or orange zone. So anyone who wants it can get tested. Perhaps a few more comments on the application. Yes, the beta-test version of the app will be ready this week or early next week. It will be used by a hundred users to judge things such as comfort of use, security. In mid-September, the application will be put into production. This means that target groups will already be able to start using it. The inter-federal committee with Karine Moykens is working on this day and night. The success of this application depends on all the prerequisites: safety first. I have already indicated, in a previous presentation, what this is about, what elements of privacy protection, but also the security of this application, we have taken. These are clear, I think. We also have the expert in cryptography, Bart Preneel, who is the manager of all aspects of this project, which is still a global authority on the subject. I think we're in good hands. Yes, the application can play a role next to the contact tracing which is now performed by [[sound clipping]] - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I will again go through my notes very quickly, to see if the questions that were asked orally have also been answered. Mrs. Gijbels, you asked a question about cluster detection. The current procedure is that the information from the laboratories and from Sciensano is transmitted several times a day to the health inspectors of the Länder, who in turn carry out the analysis at micro level to check where there are clusters. For example, several clusters have been discovered in residential care centres and also in companies, for example the case in Westmeat. From the Agency Zorg in Vlaanderen, l'AViQ in Wallonia and COCOF in Brussels, it is therefore possible to act quickly to identify the clusters and to take the necessary measures. I've discussed the red zones. Mrs Van Camp, I also referred to the figures I gave last week and the analysis that has taken place over the past two weeks. That might explain the confusion. I reported the budget for the antigen test. About DiaSorin I have already provided clarity. Mr Rigot, with regard to the laboratories still complaining about the lack of swabs, personnel and reagents, we are in consultation with the Commission on Clinical Biology to ask it to transmit this information to the clinical laboratories. So she's the one making the communication. As I indicated, 100% operationality cannot be guaranteed in every laboratory every day. It is all the laboratories and the organization we have set up with the Clinical Biology Commission that will provide laboratory capacity for 70-80,000 tests per day in October. Many laboratories still need to improve their services in order to transmit information. I said that we would insist on this with INAMI. On how the samples are taken, the RAG gave an opinion on naso-rhino-pharyngal tests, swaps and saliva. I hope I have answered the question of quarantine. It has been stressed that the federated entities are also concerned about this. We are working together. Mrs Sneppe, we have indeed given the necessary support to the Antwerp testing village, so that this test village could be set up quickly. In fact, we will do the same in Brussels. Moreover, the additional triage centres opened in Brussels also have a direct link with the national platform to increase testing capacity. I prefer to keep the case definition as broad as possible. At present, even after the opinion of the RAG, there is not really the possibility and the will to carry out preventive screening. We are also waiting for the results of Professor Goossens and from Liège to see how this can be operationalised. The problem is not so much the lab capacity, but how we put mobile teams on the ground to ensure steel extraction. Ms. Fonck, I inquired about the truck, we also provided this information to the AviQ for use, for example, in support of mobile teams where appropriate. I do prefer to see test villages extensive, but there too we will have to push the regional authorities to do so. I have also answered Mr De Caluwe's question. Of everything that can simplify the sampling and analysis of steel, I am an absolute supporter. Pooling looks easy on paper, but in practice it's not so obvious to do all these things in the labs. The penalties for testing and quarantine are based on regional decrees, Mrs Jiroflée. They must therefore also apply and implement them. Mr. Bertels, for testing in hospitals, we are working with the clinical biology committee. The hospital labs are also represented. In the past, they've already made emergency deliveries. But they too must of course prepare for the wave of influenza-like symptoms that will come towards us. They also need to see if they can absorb the overflow of other labs if they have a lot of capacity, or pass it on to the national platform if they have a shortage of capacity. All the studies have been published, so I'll get them to you without a problem. They are also peer-reviewed, which is an important element. Red zones, Mrs. Fonck, I've already talked about it. The platforms and the Namur CHU are included. Mrs Rohonyi, as for saliva, the origin of corona contamination, they are indeed multiple. They are in the population. In July, family parties were probably held, as were meetings on too large a scale, sometimes also communities, rest homes, businesses. It is almost certain that we will also detect clusters with the reopening of schools. I insisted at the National Security Council ten days ago that the Regions and the federated entities really put in place protocols to ensure follow-up and to make a fairly clear communication: who is responsible for what, when a class or school will be quarantined, where people will be able to get tested, who needs to be tested, etc.- Is that what you're saying? During this meeting and during the RMG meeting on Monday or Tuesday, the federated entities assured me that the protocols in place are clear, applicable and that all actors on the ground know what to do. I hope they're right, but I think they are. As far as the DiaSorin test is concerned, I believe that the polemic must indeed be demined. We need to put everyone around the table and have a good conversation to put the polemics in the public sphere. Around the platform BIS I also explained. The various questions about ZenTech. We're renegotiating with them. Of course, the use of serological tests has changed a lot in recent months. As soon as we get the results, I'll communicate them. But here too, it is necessary to be certain that the kits are of good quality, know how they will be used. That's why we asked the RAG for a new opinion on how the different serology tests can be used in a strategy in the fall. On pooling and INAMI, we asked that INAMI examine this issue in consultation with the national reference laboratory so that these pooling tests could be reimbursed, or how they should be billed, since it is often agencies that request screening or screening. Here too, it is the responsibility of the agencies to settle this with INAMI. I think that concludes, Madam President. I'm sorry I took a little longer than I expected. We had to leave because of the CCO last week. I wanted to take stock of all the key elements that parliamentarians have mentioned. I hope I've been up to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u38	Thank you, Mr. De Backer, you used twice your time. I imagine you can allow us to exceed the time, if any, after 6:00 p.m. Mrs De Block, you have the floor and I saw on the cat that you are complaining about the time spent. You see that I am not very strict in terms of timing, because I think that the answers you can give are of great interest to Members who remain extremely attentive and have all provided an effort of brevity. You said you'd have 38 seconds per answer. I can tell you that for some groups, we didn't even have 30 seconds to ask the question that we were interested in. If you do the calculation, the time of the Members was even more limited. But I am not going to use the precious time, I give you the floor and I will ask you to provide the time necessary to allow all members of our committee to reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u39	Madam President, I have also been a Member of Parliament for a long time and I know that more time is needed to answer a question than to ask them. I just wanted to make the point that 38 seconds for an answer is actually too little in most cases. There is also a lot of work in this area from the administrations who have been working all the time during the holidays. I very much respect their work and I hope that this will also apply to Members of Parliament. As for Mrs Gijbel's questions. She says the second wave is a completely different situation. That's right. We are in a very different situation. Firstly, we now know more about the virus and, secondly, we have been able to monitor everything properly. As a result, there is now enough protective material and many more tests have been carried out. This will enable us to identify the hearths and, in cooperation with the Communities, to take the necessary action. However, measures have been taken to reduce the number of contacts. The number of contacts determines how the virus spreads from person to person. The contact search has been much improved under the direction of Mrs Moeykens. Wherever we can, we join as government. I am thinking, for example, of ICT. However, there are additional elements such as returning holidaymakers, seasonal workers and schools reopening. Additional measures have been taken especially in the province of Antwerp and in Brussels. In Antwerp, the governor gave a press conference in which she stated that the measures paid off because the spread of the virus was delayed. For this reason, a number of measures can be reduced. This is good news for the people because I understand that it is not so pleasant to function in a somewhat normal social and family way in these COOVID times. As for your question about the sewer water, Mrs Gijbels. Others have also asked a question about this. It is true that Sciensano has already carried out a surveillance of the wastewater. Early significant increases and decreases in the population are intended to be detected. In this way we can also quickly get a picture of the circulation of the virus among the population, in anticipation and in addition to the existing surveillance measures that Sciensano coordinates at national level. There will be cooperation with two partners for the analyses under this surveillance, a partner from Flanders and a partner from Wallonia, which will cover the entire Belgian territory and avoid duplication of work. There is a need for bilateral agreements with the partners concerned. At the moment, they are being completed. The results of the monitoring in Wallonia have already been communicated with the Walloon Region government concerned, but this has not yet been done in Flanders. 42 water treatment stations are sampled twice a week for a period of two years. The results will be correlated by three laboratories with other epidemiological data collected by Sciensano in support of policy. So this is a two-year pilot project for national surveillance. For example, we are also contributing to the European initiative to bring together various projects relating to the monitoring of SARS-CoV-2 in waste water through a study that I have already provided you with the reference. This study aims to achieve a more harmonised approach, including on the method of analysis, which should add value to the comparison of results at both national and international level. Like Mr De Caluwe, you asked a question about the reopening of schools and the role of children in the transfer of infection. This is indeed the responsibility of the Communities, with which we try to cooperate through an inter-ministerial conference. On 14 August the theme report COVID-19 surveillance, infection in children in Belgium, was published on the website of Sciensano. An ECDC report was also published at the beginning of August, which also deals with the transfer and risk at school. According to the latest scientific data, the risks of contagion and transfer for secondary school pupils are lower than for adults, but higher than for younger children. The transfer is the smallest in children between 1 and 10 years of age. Afterwards, the risk gradually increases, but it always stays a lot lower than in adults. We don't know what's coming at us. As Steven Van Gucht says, opening schools can be compared to a big event. The GEES also attached great importance to this and stated that, if it were to be dealt with in this way, many other relaxations would not be possible. In itself, this is already a question of increasing the number of contacts. It goes without saying that the epidemiological situation in schools must be closely monitored. Minister De Backer has also reported that we are asking for information from the Länder through the Inter-Ministerial Conference, but also through the RAG and the RMG. Then there was a question about the number of COVID-19 deaths. Who decides if it's COVID-related? This is the job of the doctor who fills out the death certificate. That's not the nicest thing to do. The probable cause of death and the underlying causes of death must be filled in. As soon as there was a suspicion of infection, it was reported as a death possibly partly caused by COVID-19. That happened in our country, because not everywhere it happened this way. This data was also processed by Sciensano. Then there were the important questions of Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Creemers, Mr Hennuy, Mr Tillieux, Mr Sneppe, Mr Jiroflée, Mr Rohonyi and Mr Merckx about the corona vaccine, which has already been talked about, but which has not yet been finished. The European Commission has already concluded an agreement with AstraZeneca last Friday. 300 million doses are made available to Europe and distributed among the Member States. The distribution key has been determined, i.e. proportional to the number of inhabitants. For Belgium, this amounts to 7.5 million doses, making it possible to vaccinate 3.8 million Belgians because there will have to be a double dose. The marketing authorisation must first be granted when it is available. Granting the licence is the competence of EMAS, and the agreement also provides for the option of ordering 100 million additional doses. Then there is the Supreme Court's opinion on the vaccination of COVID vaccines. They say that 4 million people have priority to be vaccinated: the people in care, but also people over 65 years of age and people with risk factors. That is where the number of vaccines that will be needed for Belgium is determined. Of course, we are also candidates for negotiations on other vaccines, such as Johnson & Johnson, CureVac and so on. We also subscribe to this. After a deal we get five days to decide whether we opt out, in other words whether we decide not to participate. That is true for all European Member States. In order to make that decision with sufficient knowledge, there is therefore an expert group that assists Xavier De Cuyper of the FAGG, so that he can take the necessary advice to the Steering Committee. It is true that through this deal we are sure that a certain amount of a vaccine will be able to be bought at cost, insofar as the vaccine can obtain a European market licence. This does not put Belgium in a position to obtain a vaccine if the AstraZeneca vaccine obtained the market licence because the available stocks could already have been bought by other countries, as suggested by a number of members last time. AstraZeneca chooses to deliver the vaccines at cost. The vaccine is now estimated at 2.9 euros per dose. Part of the prize will be borne by the European Commission and part by the participating Member States. The price may change in line with development costs. The price does not include the cost of distributing the vaccine. These costs are, as always, the responsibility of the Member States. The agreement provides that AstraZeneca will inform the European Commission of progress in development. The European Commission also provides access to all relevant information relating to a vaccine. It is also foreseen that the European Commission will be able to audit costs. Belgium has committed EUR 27 million as part of the European commission set up for this purpose. The possible claims clause was still under negotiation last Friday. These negotiations were conducted by the European Commission to ensure that the parties with similar negotiating factors are around the table. All Member States that decide to participate will be bound by the same contractual conditions. Either you sign in and the terms negotiated will also apply, or you opt out and do not participate in the distribution of the vaccine or in the joint prior purchase contract. In other words, as a small Member State, we must negotiate separately with AstraZeneca. The contract was negotiated under a no gain, no loss clause. This means that AstraZeneca delivers the vaccines at cost and does not make a profit. On the other hand, liabilities and financial charges are shared between the contracting parties. AstraZeneca is in principle protected from the progress that Member States and the European Commission would have. Liability towards patients and third parties of AstraZeneca remains unaffected. Given that the vaccine is running very quickly through the process of development to market in order to meet the more than urgent demand for vaccines, each participating Member State will safeguard AstraZeneca from certain claims for damages, insofar as they do not result from conscious misconduct or non-compliance with AstraZeneca's obligations in the light of good manufacturing practices, good manufacturing practices, or pharmacovigilance. That compromise was reached. With regard to the requirements of one and the other, this was the most difficult point to agree on. It will only be placed on the market after it has obtained a European market licence. That alone gives a great guarantee of safety and effectiveness. The vaccine will also be developed and produced in Europe. A balance was thus struck between the need to have a vaccine available quickly, but also to do so at cost, the distribution of liabilities and the financial burden between contracting parties. It is not a gift; Mrs Merckx pointed that out with a proverb. The liability is fairly divided. AstraZeneca remains liable to patients and other third parties. Nor will the accelerated authorisation procedure have any effect on the safety of the vaccine. All the necessary rules for obtaining the European market licence are followed. If it's negative, the contract with AstraZeneca will also be dissolved. The decision to participate in the prior purchase contract was taken at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health on 19 August, on the advice of the Committee, composed of independent experts and representatives of the relevant authorities. In view of the Community's competence for all preventive health care initiatives, governed by the special Law of 1980, the purchase is a Community matter. The federal government has notified the European Commission of this. Scientific experts have given their advice on the vaccine concerned in full independence. The decision was taken taking into account contractual provisions as agreed by the European Commission. The overall evolution based on the state of science on the vaccine in development has led to a positive opinion, which was followed by the Communities. Finally, the European Commission is currently negotiating with various vaccine producers, and it is therefore very likely that Belgium will soon enter into other contracts. Indeed, these are early purchases and there is a certain risk that these vaccines will not obtain marketing authorisation from the European Medicines Agency. It is therefore important to be able to engage in different agreements in the light of the current uncertainties. Other countries have also decided not to put all eggs in a basket and agreed that the European Union should negotiate with the various companies. There are still a lot of strangers: what with the needles and syringes, it becomes a multidose vial, it becomes a single dose in a syringe, it is simple or double vials requiring mixing of subtrate and adjuvant. The High Health Council has already issued an opinion on the priority groups. When that is decided, we know how many needles and syringes are needed. In the meantime, the European Commission has included the acquisition of medical injection equipment in the vaccination strategy and there was a joint procurement for needles and syringes, which ended on 21 August last. A specific procurement procedure steering committee follows the call for tenders; the FPS Public Health was appointed as contracting authority as part of the joint procurement. The FAGG has prepared and notified to the European Commission, on the basis of European standardised forms, the need analysis for medical equipment for large-scale vaccination, i.e. needles and syringes, waste containers for the safe disposal of used injection material, vaccine carriers, sticks and disinfectants. This is followed by both the FAGG and the FPS Public Health. To Mrs Depooster, I would like to point out that the creation of a strategic stock of vaccine administration material is not part of the mandate of the FAGG Advisory Committee. It does, however, support the Inter-Ministerial Conference when it has to take decisions in the framework of the European Commission's negotiations on contracts. The FAGG chooses not to disclose the members of the Advisory Committee until the Advisory Committee has completed its work, as it does not want their objectivity to be affected. A lot has already been said about remdesivir and I will provide the information in writing. A new question from Mrs Depoter and Mrs Creemers concerned antibodies against COVID-19 in plasma and breast milk. On plasma, Mr De Backer has already replied. The protective function of breast-feeding against infections in newborns and children is well documented and recognised. Breast-feeding strengthens the immune system, especially by the mother passing antibodies to the newborn through the milk. The WHO recommends breast feeding advice during the COVID-19 outbreak during this COVID pandemic, provided that strict hygiene conditions are observed in case of maternal infection. Furthermore, on 13 August, a Dutch research team submitted an article to The Lancet showing that breast milk from patients with COVID-19 contains a lot of antibodies against the virus. They could have a neutralising effect on the virus and could be resistant to pasteurisation. Researchers will now test whether breast milk could effectively prevent infection, especially in vulnerable groups such as older people. Several calls are being launched for the donation of breast milk by infected women. There won't be much material on that. Fortunately, I think. In Belgium there are some studies on the use of convalescent plasma. Two studies are supported by the Knowledge Centre. It is too early to anticipate the results because the studies last 20 to 34 months, depending on the number of patients included. It's always said there should be a plan for the coming waves. Now, a doctor from Sciensano has worked out a good plan for the detection of new clusters with resurgence measures. There's also a dynamic, interfederal plan. On behalf of the IMC, the RMG further complements this. That has already improved a lot, but it remains a dynamic plan, which increases the impact on subsequent outbreaks. The views of the various parliaments and the Länder are also taken into account. The views will be assessed against the recommendations of the special parliamentary committees, which will be installed in each assembly. If further recommendations are made, they will also be reviewed in the mid-term review. It is good that the implementation of the plan has begun. Everyone will take responsibility for this. Even though the powers are rather fragmented, the inter-federal plan is coherent and dynamic and each will carry out the task for which it is competent. As Minister De Backer has already said, the federal level is stepping in where necessary. It advocates the participation of behavioral scientists in the design and communication of the corona measures. The GEES, the working group set up by the Prime Minister to guide the exit strategy, has instructed Celeval to examine how, in the months and years that the virus is among us, we can expand the group, precisely in view of the heavy psychological testing and the need for a sustainable motivation of all those involved, so that the important expertise in this field is also taken into account in the advisory bodies. Again, the GEES reports to the Prime Minister and also comes forward with recommendations to the National Security Council. It will then be a comprehensive new GEES. Contacts always take place between those who ask for the opinion, who also determine the composition. The initiative lies with the Prime Minister in this respect. Mrs Hmente, Mrs Depoorter and others have asked me about this. For the time being, it is difficult to scientifically demonstrate the causal link between a mental disorder and the crisis of coronavirus. However, attention should be paid to the possible psychological consequences of this virus on patients. In order to better respond to demand for care for mild psychological problems, the number of psychotherapy sessions in a front-line clinician psychologist was increased from four to eight. This measure applies not only to adults, but also to adolescents, children and the elderly. Prevention also plays an important role in this. It is the Communities that are looking into this. The pandemic and the measures have had a major impact on all age groups. The budget of first-line psychology was therefore increased by 16.7 million euros and extended to children and the elderly. We have also extended the category of referring doctors to occupational doctors, CLB doctors and geriatrics. In short, all doctors involved in the supervision of patients. There has also been an effort in the area of care support for nursing staff. The budget for this has already been allocated, but implementation on the ground is still ongoing. Work is being carried out as a matter of urgency. In addition, a number of elements are being discussed. About the flu vaccination. We have today communicated on the staged course of that vaccination. Mrs Depoorter, the 500 000 vaccines that would come through Europe have been decided. We already have 2.9 million vaccines. This is much more than it has been in the past few years. The High Health Council has extended the target groups. We should therefore have enough vaccines at our disposal. The FAGG will monitor compliance with the recommendations on the phased delivery which was made in close consultation with the relevant field actors pharmacists, doctors and occupational health services.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These consultations have therefore already taken place. The distribution will be phased out. We do not believe that binding regulation is now necessary because this approach is also supported by the representatives of the various actors involved, both in the field and in the various authorities of our country. We count on the responsibility and deontology of each actor for the correct execution of the phased vaccination campaign. In this respect, the necessary communication has now been provided, namely a broad information campaign launched this week towards professionals and the general public. The delivery of the vaccine is automatically recorded. Registration should be carried out in Vaccinenet or e-vax, respectively, according to the place where it takes place. The regulation of compulsory or non-compulsory registration in these databases remains a competence of the Länder concerned. Then the questions about testing in companies. Mrs Gijbels, that remains the responsibility of the Agency for Health and Health. This was mainly about a higher number of outbreaks in the meat preparation sector, where additional preventive measures had to be taken at the workplace, but also about the living conditions of the workers. That is something that must be kept in mind. There is also an opinion from the Veterinary AG on slaughterhouses. That has already been announced. It says that workers can be exposed to the virus by contamination of their hands. The possibility of infection by hand by handling the meat is assessed as negligible compared to the risk of direct transfer from human to human. There, too, there is a need for more preventive measures. Mr Prévot, you spoke of cacophony and the discordance between the statements of scientists and those of my colleagues. It is not my practice to make statements about what they say. As a parliamentarian, you have the opportunity to question all members of the government. It is not for me to explain the statements of either. As regards the possible obligation to be vaccinated, until now in Belgium only one vaccine is compulsory: that against polyomyelitis. It was made compulsory by royal decree in 1966. Certain conditions have been laid down because a vaccine may be mandatory. We tested that once, and it turns out to be wrong for the time being, as far as this vaccine is concerned. If that were the case, it would have to be consulted with the Communities. So far it would be recommended, but not mandatory. As regards the planning centres, questions by Mrs Tillieux and Mrs Thibaut, my colleague Mrs Morreale is responsible for this, but I am prepared to relay these questions to her. We have looked into the stock of parliamentary questions from the regional assembly: few problems have been presented. However, I noted these questions about post-imposed care that is necessary for pregnant women and women in difficulty. They need to see how to provide such care and how to prevent these women from postposing in new waves of care. Mrs Sneppe, you asked whether the pilot projects with the TB vaccine could be an alternative. I checked with the drug agency. We are not aware of a pilot project using this TB vaccine as a cure for COVID-19. However, there are currently a number of randomized controlled studies in which the efficacy of BCG vaccination is tested in health professionals in direct contact with COVID-19 patients. Due to the lack of evidence, but also because the BCG vaccine is limited, it should be reserved for vaccination of children in high risk areas. That is a recommendation of the World Health Organisation to discourage this vaccination in the framework of COVID-19 outside randomized controlled studies. The vaccine is also not available and can currently be imported by an official pharmacist only on the basis of a prescription by name and medical certificate. The cost will therefore depend on the price of the product abroad. But once again, the WHO says that it is very careful of that. It is not intended to give this to everyone. As far as the long-term adverse effects are concerned, it is, of course, too early to know what these effects are. I would like to ask Mrs Hennuy and Mrs Creemers about the nomenclature numbers for the cooperation of kinesis and dietists. It is the follow-up to the answer to two previous questions. This is still about the multidisciplinary approach in which dieticians also play an important role. You say the RIZIV wrote a letter. However, I myself wrote a letter explaining to Mrs Lejeune, President of the UPDLF. I can also send that letter to the Flemish Professional Association of Dietists. It concerns the nomenclature numbers provided for, how they fit into a multidisciplinary approach and how they can be further used as long as rehabilitation is required. Dietists are also part of multidisciplinary rehabilitation. We are asking for further enlargement, but we have taken urgent measures now to launch other slopes which are not connected to COOVID-19, including children, and it seems to me that we have little chance of achieving this in current cases. I will give you the answer in Dutch, Mrs Creemers. On Mrs Tillieux's question about ambulances dedicated to the transport of patients with VOCID-19, during the first wave, we were faced with a major shortage and were not able to predict the PPE required for all ambulances. In view of this fact and by highlighting the protection of the ambulance staff, the solution of the dedicated ambulances came. We have therefore concentrated the material means of protection on a few ambulances in the country and we have engaged these ambulances for the VOCID-19 interventions. The reverse of the medal was that the level agreement service of these ambulances was less where I ask that, on average, an ambulance be on site within fifteen minutes, since the number of dedicated ambulances was 36 for the country. As a result, there was no coverage of the territory as for regular ambulances for emergency medical assistance. The use of normal ambulances for patients VOCID-19 and non-COVID-19, referred to the obligation to clean and disinfect the entire ambulance between each transport but also resulted in a reduction in the level service. The numerical analysis of the VOCID-19 interventions during the first wave shows that there were 29,500 interventions, half of which were performed by a dedicated ambulance and the other half by a normal ambulance. At the height of the first wave, we counted more than 700 VOCID-19 interventions per day. Today, this number has dropped to 200, even with the rise of the last few weeks. The service-level agreement has reduced dedicated means and gradually, the market and availability of protective equipment has normalized. The Public Health FPS provided the necessary protective equipment to the various approved ambulance services and the establishment of these dedicated VOCID-19 ambulances required the provision of additional human resources. The service also expressed some fatigue at the end of the crisis. In the light of these elements, we felt it appropriate, in collaboration with the various medical departments of the 112 emergency centres and our various hygiene inspection services, to have these operations put up again in the regular circuit and thus to suspend the use and provision of these dedicated ambulances. Currently, according to the intervention figures for these cases with suspicion of VOCID-19, we do not face a wave like that experienced, and these interventions can be absorbed through usual emergency ambulances. However, in the event of a rapid increase in the number of these interventions, and therefore of an impact on the means, we can very quickly reactivate the means dedicated to VOCID-19, because the specific conventions are still in progress. I answered Ms. Tillieux's questions about the sorting centres. You have a question about the Trikafta. I'll send you the answer, because it's a rather technical answer. With regard to Mr Rigot's questions, Mrs Rohonyi, on the social bubble, some people are in favour and others against. It must be said that all our models, and those from abroad, indicate that limiting contacts – and above all that – has a very great effect on controlling the epidemic. The essence of this principle is to limit social contacts and their frequency. All our contacts, and above all changing contacts, unfortunately lead to rapid viral spread. The concept of bubble is a way to achieve this goal. It is based on studies that have been done at Hasselt University and Antwerp. They studied in May 2020 a very large number of scenarios to analyze the effect of different types of contact limitations. From this work, it appears that family bubbles have a very positive effect on the evolution of the epidemic. After an in-depth analysis, we determine a specific epidemiological objective on which the measures can be based. Even if the objective is achieved, it will be provisionally necessary to limit further social contacts. On the workload of psychiatric hospitals, there were problems in a certain hospital in Brussels. The other hospitals have been helping to hospitalize patients. The problem was also encountered among caregivers, many of whom were infected, sometimes because of vacations, sometimes otherwise. Indeed, these people are vulnerable given their mental health issues and it is not easy at this time with all the stress they can feel. However, it is difficult to assess the exact number of forced admissions of medically justified cases. All services admitting patients being observed show a higher pressure. However, for the institutions and staff of the Brussels-Capital Region, the problem is more acute than in the other Regions. In Brussels, observation is more often imposed by a magistrate than elsewhere. This problem is not of today, but unfortunately there are more cases in this period of crisis. In principle, observation must be possible in all psychiatric services. Specific approval is not required for this type of care. Nevertheless, we note that Brussels magistrates award these patients only to four Brussels hospitals with a licence for observation. For some time, observation has been systematically refused in one of them, although from a legal point of view a refusal is not legally impossible. We observed that the magistrates then placed these patients in one of the other three hospitals. In order to find solutions to this problem, I have started a dialogue with the sector in order to reach better agreements. This dialogue is still ongoing. We need to see how to help them. It should be noted that the Compliance Act falls under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. In order to streamline the conditions for admission under duress, a working group has been set up including doctors, hospitals, magistrates, lawyers and representatives of our two administrations. This working group has since completed its activities. An assessment may be made of any amendments to the Compulsory Admissions Act that fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice. That said, we can only welcome the fact that the group has worked in consultation with all the actors concerned. Unfortunately, the annual context is such as to limit the scope for intervention and support that can be given to the sector. This issue will need to be addressed by the next government. Instead of a strict protocol, the competent authorities of the federated entities sent guidelines to psychiatric hospitals on health security. These guidelines were discussed in the Search Capacity Group. But as you know, it was the federated entities that had the lead. It is very important that this work continues, as these hospitals are in difficulty, as are their patients. As far as care personnel are concerned, the injection of resources in the field has not yet been established. We're still working on that. The psychosocial managers have kept track of all psychosocial support measures and mapped out the offer. It is up to the managers to keep the overview. This is now being built on for the implementation of this. With regard to the evolution of the epidemic, cluster monitoring as well as testing remains important. However, Sciensano provides support to federated entities in this field at their request. Each federated entity has developed its system, establishes how it works with the local level of management and decision-making. Sciensano and the federated entities meet once a week – I think it's Thursday – to exchange information on the identified clusters. A tool to collect this information has been created. Several seroprevalence studies are underway in Sciensano and in various academic centres. These studies are repeated. Their results are available on Sciensano's website and are included in the weakly report. Questions were also asked about the physical return of general practitioners to nursing homes. This matter falls within the competence of the federated entities. However, this does not seem to be a big problem. With regard to the financing of hospitals and the loss of their funding, I have already explained the process. The Federal Council of Hospital Institutions will be working on this issue to deliver an opinion at the end of September. Mr Bertels asked a question about the role of psychosocial managers. Well, that role is defined within the psychosocial intervention plan. The managers actually coordinate the planning phase of the PSIP, as well as the development of acute psychological assistance in the event of a collective incident. In addition to the development within the acute phase, they also provide the start-up of the psychosocial coordination committee. Within that committee, all information on the acute phase and the identified needs for the follow-up phase shall be given to the fellow coordinators of the psychosocial after-care of the Länder. The Länder, reinforced by the input of the Psychosocial Coordination Committee, follow up further on the follow-up. The last assignment of the psychosocial managers in the cycle is therefore an evaluation of that assistance in the acute phase and the implementation of improvement actions in the planning of the PSIP. The current crisis is somewhat different from those we have already experienced. Although the generic acute phase is over, we are still in a dormant subacute phase. Every now and then there are new outbreaks, for example in a residential care centre or in another collective facility, which is causing a new acute crisis. It is therefore important that psychosocial managers remain active in this post-care phase, where there is now and then a crisis or crisis. Optimum cooperation with the coordinators is therefore still necessary. Managers shall provide support where necessary. This is followed up by urgent assistance within the FOD. Every now and then we get feedback from it. Madam President, I hope that my answers have remained within the speaking time allocated to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you. The speaking time has largely been exceeded since you have exceeded it twice. I propose for the replies to allow Members also to double their speaking time, to match that of the start of our proceedings, namely eight minutes for the groups of three members, five minutes for the groups of two members and three minutes for each Member.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u41	Madam President, first of all I would like to return to the answers I have received from Minister De Backer, and above all to the DiaSorin tests, irrespective of whether it is a good test or not, I do not think that is even the essence of the matter. Anyone who has read the article in De Standaard will have seen that it is much deeper than that. A number of unfortunate things have happened. It is not only the AZ Delta that is suing this, but also the umbrella scientific association of laboratory medicine has sued several cases. For example, they have concerns about the role the BFSA has played and about the fact that, for example, one lab could not carry out different tests in order to compare them. They refer each time to the Netherlands and Denmark, where they communicate in a much more open way about the research data obtained by the various laboratories. Also the fact that the evaluation protocol and the results of, for example, the DiaSorin test were not communicated to the lab that received the kits raises questions and that is quite logical. It was also found that the cut-off value had been adjusted. If there is a link between the FAGG and the one designated to evaluate that test, then it is logical that there should be some mistrust, especially if the communication has been carried out in a more authoritarian manner, which we must hear from different labs. I hear there's a sit-down with the labs. That is high time and it is strange that it is only now. In such a health crisis, it is essential to stand by a strong and adequate policy as a single man, which must be able to act properly and quickly. Apparently, that was completely ignored by sending someone into the field who apparently had a very difficult communication with the labs. It should also be remembered that it is FAGG judge and party, and can put pressure on a lab. If that would mean that academic freedom, if only implicitly, would be put under some pressure, then I think it is an important point. I also hope that will be part of the investigation. I have not heard whether you consider it desirable for Mr Malonne to be temporarily removed from office, but I also hope that this can be part of the discussion that will be held with the various labs and that they can communicate about it openly. As far as Minister De Block's replies are concerned, I have not yet heard very clearly what the objective of the current measures is. What are they aiming for and what factors are being taken into account? Are we trying to safeguard hospital capacity? I don't think that's going to be the case anymore, not for a while. Are we aiming for a reduction in the R-value and which is it? I think it is very important to give this to the people, who must take all kinds of measures to work towards it, and that we also know together what we are aiming for. We have heard nothing else about hospitalisations as a result of COOVID-19. I had asked for figures of the age groups and also the length of the hospital stays. Does the registration of death also distinguish between a death with COVID-19 and a death by COVID-19? It seems essential to me to make a distinction in this respect. My question on the situation of dental hygienists has not yet been answered either. As a result of the COOVID crisis, they have become more likely to be sent into the field, but there is still no provision for reimbursement for the treatments they provide, creating some kind of unfair competition between dental hygienists and dentists. Dentistry thus also becomes somewhat a luxury medicine, a treatment for those who can afford it. I had also put forward a question on an article published in The New York Times, in which Belgian policy on the elderly in the residential care centres is taken seriously. Apparently you did not want to respond to that article, but I would have liked to have heard that reply in a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u42	Mr Minister, Mr Gijbels has already replicated a great deal in connection with the DiaSorin test. I think your answers are quite tendentious. You simply do not indicate that the first validation test was carried out on 44 patients, all of whom were at the same stage of the disease course. There are arguments pro, but I still think you should give full information. My colleague has also mentioned the cut off. It's good that the conversation takes place. The previous evaluations of the various top people of the FAGG may also need to be included. Then, as a minister, you may decide whether or not steps should be taken. Madam Minister, with regard to the COOVID vaccine, I would like to conclude that you put your eggs in the basket of the European Commission, which you have already reported, but you are also now working as an umbrella for AstraZeneca. I really do not understand why you strongly denied in the journal that liability has been agreed and also deny that it is a shared liability, which means that the Belgian taxpayer will pay for any long-term side effects, even though these are in the contract. With this clause, you have really weakened our country's position, as other manufacturers of vaccines will now want to be protected in this way. I would like to remind you that the company AstraZeneca has paid 600 million dollars in fines for health problems over the last 20 years. Will the government set up a commission to deal with any future problems? I think it's kind of lame anyway. It could have been better. As far as the flu vaccine is concerned, you told me in July with great enthusiasm that there would be 500 000 extra flu vaccines for this year. So that doesn't seem right. You ordered them, but you didn't have them. Again, we have a problem. You say we have a lot more than last year, but we are talking about 100 000 more. Last year we had a vaccination rate of 46.2 %. On 2 June, I asked you if we would have enough vaccines. On that day, the High Council of Medicine extended the advice for the risk groups. At that point, you already knew you needed more vaccines. I just checked it out. At the company Sanofi you could order vaccines until the end of June. You didn't. The working group did not meet until July. So it turns out it's too late. So we're gonna have a problem. I am very sorry to have to predict it, but it seems to me that we are heading for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u43	Mrs. Depoorter, what you're saying is not true. Half a million more vaccines have already been ordered. Then we get 2.9 million. Last year we needed 2.2 million vaccines. We have also signed up for an additional half million more. Additional vaccines have indeed been ordered from the company Sanofi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u44	Hundred thousand, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u45	So you shouldn't claim that there was still time to order. That was the maximum number we could have, also at GSK and also at the third firm. You know well enough that we need to ask for more flu vaccines two years in advance. So, ask your questions with knowledge and tell me what it's like without magic with numbers. You are well aware that we have been working on this for a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u46	You are talking about knowledge, but I have just had contacts with the firm which has clearly assured me that it was possible to sign up until the end of June and that more could be signed up than other years, and not necessarily two years in advance, because of the COOVID-19 crisis. That is correct, you too must provide correct information. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that, if you are talking about correct information, you must also properly inform the public about the partial responsibility of the AstraZenecadeal and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u47	There was another negotiation the day after. I cannot anticipate a negotiation that has yet to take place at European level. On Thursday afternoon I gave an interview, the negotiation took place on Friday. The information I gave to the citizens at that time was the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u48	You already gave me a go, you signed a blank check. You know that, too. As far as vaccination material is concerned, I pointed out to you a few months ago that you also put your eggs in the European basket here. I hope you're right. To conclude, as far as remdesivir is concerned, I would like a written reply that is really correct. It's the umpteenth time I've asked you. Your interpretation of the study appears to be incorrect. Do the doctors have the right guidelines? Is it the right patients who are given the expensive remdesivir? Will we have enough for the patients who have been helped with remdesivir?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u49	Madam President, I have three comments for Minister De Backer. It is high time that the polemics between the labs and the FAGG were demined, as you say. I look forward to the results of the talks that will take place. You promised me a written overview of the strategic stock last time. I'm counting on me to get that this time. As far as the returners from the orange zones are concerned, I note that you do not believe that it is sustainable that the general practitioner does all the assessments and that an online questionnaire should be prepared from September onwards. I'm sorry about that, actually. Early September the children go back to school and most people are long back from vacation. Can I think it a little too late that a questionnaire will only be worked from then on? It would have been much more logical to do so from the start and, in doubt, to have the doctor assess the need for the test.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u50	In hindsight, yes. However, there was an explicit demand in May that general practitioners should see people who had to be tested to see if a test was needed. The same applies to the second test to be carried out on people in quarantine. There, too, was the explicit demand of the GPs to be able to see the people involved. I understand that question, but it has already been pointed out that in the event of an increase in the number of tests, this method may be problematic. We have now established, unfortunately faster than expected, that this is indeed the case. The online tool is coming now and I think that it can also serve other purposes in the future to relieve the burden on the general practitioners. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u51	Then we want the same thing, to relieve the general practitioners. If we go to 70,000 to 80,000 tests a day, it's impossible for the general practitioners to keep doing that. Madam Minister, I would like to make one final point. The Dutch section of the professional association of dietists also wants the answer, to which I referred earlier. The letter I've been looking at, indeed, did not come from the Public Health Office, but from you. If you can still ensure that the Dutch language department gets it, that would be very kind.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u52	Madam Chair, Minister, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive and long answers. Regarding the testing strategy, I understand that the RAG remains quite timid about salivary tests and that it awaits the results of the pilot projects that will be carried out in Liège and by Dr Goossens in Antwerp. Mr De Backer, you have repeatedly pointed out that the problem in testing is primarily people; it is finding enough people to carry out these tests. In the fall, we will have to have sufficient alternatives to be ready to activate all the tests that will be necessary. It's good to have a technical and logistical capacity, but you also need to be flexible enough and imaginative enough to be able to have other solutions at a given time. I think the implementation of salivary tests requires much less complex logistics than PCR tests. For example, they could be implemented by pharmacists, who have already shown their readiness to be part of this scheme. We will not have to find ourselves, at some point, when we are going to have to activate 70,000 to 90,000 tests at some point, to think that we have the ability to do it, but no one to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u53	I just want to say that even with a salivary sample, the whole process behind (transport, analysis) remains the same. With the salivary test, there are several problems. We're losing sensitivity. When making an individual diagnosis, people who have the virus, who are still able to contaminate someone else, but who have a low viral load, will not be detected. In the case of screenings, no problem. But if you have to make an individual diagnosis, it's a problem. That's where the key element is. Even with a salivary test, it still requires a lot of logistics on the ground – perhaps not a doctor or nurse, but the logistics around a sorting center remains exactly the same. Yes, I'm very open to any new technology we can use. That's why I already commissioned a study in April of more than 2,000 patients to check if the sensitivity is the same. That's not the case. Now, with these results in hand, we have given Liège and Antwerp the opportunity to start a much wider study, because there are many differences between different salivary tests. For example, when you take saliva in the morning, it's not the same as in the afternoon. Here too, there are differences. All these scientific elements must be taken into account before a decision is taken. I'm very open and if the results show that we can do it, we will. I'm a taker. I hope the results will be good and then we will go as soon as possible. Nevertheless, a scientific basis is needed before this decision can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u54	I can hear you. I still think that in winter, with seasonal flu in addition, being able to organize large-scale tests even if the sensitivity is lower, the salivary test will be interesting rather than not at all because there may be no one to perform them. You're familiar with the 80/20 rule!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u55	A few weeks ago, Maggie De Block and I sent a clear letter and request on the interdepartmental committees of recent weeks to ask the federated entities to prepare and relieve the work of general practitioners and others. For example, INAMI has made available some of the nurses at home as well as the doctors at work to involve them in testing. I personally contacted university rectors to see if in the fall we could use, as student trainees to do tests. We do what we can on our side. But according to the protocol with the federated entities, the responsibility is there. I hope that both will be supported and that they will succeed. Because you're right: 80,000 tests a day by general practitioners and nurses alone, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u56	I was reassured to hear that the Regions had activated their testing protocol in case of a cluster that would be identified in schools. We will keep a close eye on the series for ZenTech and the new opinion of the RAG expected in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u57	I'll be brief. I'm not happy about this week's exercise as I wasn't happy with last week's exercise. I congratulate you, Mr De Backer, on the exercise you have just done. Your presentation was clear, all in length. You know your subject, it's undeniable. You show the will to convince and bring the elements for us to be. It was a nice educational exercise. I must admit that on some points you have given me the expected answers as well as clarity. Unfortunately, other points have not convinced me. I have doubts about this government's willingness and almost 90,000 tests at the end of September. As my colleague, Mrs H annoyance, said, this requires a global vision. It's good to test and say that you can do it, but for it to work, you have to be able to make the samples and analyze them in a short time. It doesn't make sense to have samples on hold for several days. We need to be able to communicate them quickly. There, I did not receive a clear answer in relation to laboratories that do not always meet the deadlines for communicating to Sciensano the positive results so that tracing and quarantine can be implemented if necessary. It really needs a global vision and I confess that I have remained on my hunger as for many months. Yeah, we're doing tests today, but we're not doing enough yet. It is also known that 22% of people who were tested in August are returning from abroad, demonstrating the need to rely on the fungus especially for those returning from red areas to have clear communication with them and to facilitate access to tests and results. We need modernity and speed. We have to do it now. There, I have the feeling that we realize that this is going to happen but that we don't know when. This may happen after the war, and that would obviously be regrettable. We don't have to wait for a next government to get there. We have to do this now with the teams in place, with the forces in place at the executive level. We therefore expect answers to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u58	Mr. Rigot, there are two things. All the IT elements are in place, all the flow is there: sampling, recording of it, analysis by the laboratory, transfer to the Sciensano database and reporting to the doctor. Everything's automated. It's all there. All laboratories and hospitals, all general practitioners have included these different elements in their software. It already exists. We have already done so in April, May and June, and we have optimized it in consultation with laboratories and hospitals. All this information is also available. A website contains all the key elements to be part of this process for sorting centres, general practitioners, hospitals and laboratories. What they need to do is clearly stated. On the IT side, it's all set. Of course, everything can always be improved because there are sometimes cases that are a little specific and that are not addressed by the system. This is where we sometimes have to put something back on paper, but here too, if there are signals from the ground that some cases do not fit into the system, we try to improve it. For example, the number bis has been set up to address this type of problem. This is now possible as it was in May. All these elements need to be addressed if special cases are still detected. It's a first thing. Second, the red zones. The agencies monitor people returning from red areas. It is the AviQ that automatically receives the information from the Sciensano database and must follow up, which is exactly the same as for a high-risk contact. If you have been in contact with a contaminated patient in Belgium, we apply the same procedure. We have already conducted this discussion with Elio Di Rupo and Christie Morreale to see how to improve and strengthen these elements through telephone or other follow-up, but also, for example, through a communication campaign. I know that in Flanders, I see regularly on my radio and television personalities who appear to encourage people to follow the rules. Campaigns are also carried out by federated entities. We are therefore working together in the Inter-federal Committee to improve all processes, but ultimately, and as is often the case, we obviously depend on people's willingness to follow the rules. We can say that it is forbidden to burn a red light, we can put a police officer next to the fire to fine the offenders, but the government is not responsible for the people who burn the red light.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u59	Yes, absolutely. I hear your thoughts on the matter, but what worries me, and you will understand it, is the need for the citizen and his behaviour not to harm everyone else. And we are in this context today. Indeed, the government must not put itself behind the red light, but it must also ensure that at some point, if the citizen is not willing, there are strong enough tools that encourage him to go, or otherwise, that penalizes him if he does not go hard enough. When I see the low rate of people returning from red areas that will pass the test, it shows a fatigue, a ras-le-bol, that it is not easy, pleasant to get tested. After that, it takes a long time to get an answer. Then one can see that his neighbor did not finally go there and that he did not suffer any more. Who is responsible? That's not the question I'm asking today. I see that things need to be improved, and that is what matters. The question of responsibility is another problem, and we may be discussing it at some point in the special committee, and I am not trying to define it today. I briefly return to the question of the test which also needs to be improved – that is, the test to leave. We have seen dramatic incidents with people who had to go on vacation and who did not have access to their test within 48 hours or who have to travel incredible kilometres to find a laboratory that will do a sampling, get the results in time, and this can have consequences for their departure on vacation or their necessary departure. It is also harmful, because people have sometimes saved a long time to go on vacation – like the weekend of 15 August to go to Greece in particular – and have seen their departure postponed for misunderstandings, lack of clarity, and for some, have not been able to leave, for lack of means to access a ticket. It is therefore important to improve things. In any event, minister, overall, I would like to thank you for your answers. Madam Minister, I must confess that you shocked me. Indeed, if I understood you correctly, it is easy to ask questions, but it is more difficult to answer them. I hear that you do not have enough time to respond and that you salute the work of your collaborators. It is true that you have read carefully the texts written by your collaborators. As far as I'm concerned, I'll remember three things. I had the feeling that I was facing a telephone station today. For some questions, I was put on hold. For others, I was asked to use two for the federated entities, out of three for the Department of Justice to get a response. At some point, I even got the impression that we hung up without getting an answer. Maybe our questions are done quickly. But we do take time to devote ourselves to it. Most of us often take the time to write them ourselves to be there, to keep up with this frantic rhythm. In any case, we have done this work with heart at the last two meetings of this committee, because we want answers and answers to the citizens. We are fulfilling our role as parliamentarians. I wonder a few times why we are taking so long to do this. I can understand the demotivation of some citizens. I also get demotivated, as is the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u60	Madam Minister, allow me to return to the few points I have raised. I would also like to thank you for the elements of your response. I thank Mrs De Block, in particular, who has clearly explained the situation of ambulances. On the other hand, Madam Minister, you have regularly denied responsibility to the federated entities. Let me tell you again that Mrs Christie Morreale is not concerned with the issue of voluntary termination of pregnancy. The purpose of my question was to determine whether measures could not be taken, but also to recall that a text aimed at giving women access to this fundamental sexual right was on the table. Mr De Backer, I have heard your long answer and your plea for the DiaSorin. On the other hand, the issue of Zentech serological testing remains incomprehensible. You unilaterally decide to renegotiate a contract without just cause. It's incomprehensible! You'll still have to explain yourself about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u61	I answered that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I have a few comments and additional questions. Mr Minister, in connection with my question on DiaSorin, the FAGG and Mr Mallone, you have read from the letter stating that each lab can validate tests itself. That is true, but when they come to another result, they get a check from the FAGG on their roof. That may also be the harassment to which reference is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u63	Mrs. Sneppe, what you're saying isn't right. The AZ Delta itself contacted the FAGG with a contradictory result. The inspection referred to has requested the raw data. Each lab can and may, if a validation study has been carried out, also have tests that we have not secured. Hundreds of different tests are being used in Belgium today that we have not purchased, either because they did not think they were good enough, or because there were better tests available, or because the price-quality ratio of other tests was found to be better than the tests that the government had secured. The labs are completely free in that. The reason I have read this is that one of the questions put also refers to the obstacle to scientific research. The studies I've been talking about are all published peer review studies. The scientific research was therefore in no way hindered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u64	In that case, Minister, it is certainly a good thing that there will be a joint effort to resolve this problem. In the meantime, Mr Mallone has been in or out of the blue several times in a short time. A Flemish proverb says that where there is smoke, there is fire. Perhaps it is interesting to have an external audit carried out in the FAGG instead of an internal audit. As Mr Gijbels pointed out, the FAGG is a judge and party to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u65	Ms. Sneppe, the audit was carried out by the Federal Internal Audit Service, an independent external partner of the federal government. For such matters, the FIAD has been specifically established. It is therefore not an internal audit within the FAGG, but an external forensic audit. The FIAD does belong to the government, but is considered external, precisely to investigate such matters within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u66	Thank you. With regard to the orange and red zones, you say the tests will be refunded. In your opinion, therefore, the lack of reimbursement cannot be the reason why people are not being tested. I would also like to ask whether this also applies to the tests to be carried out by people who have to go to hospital for a reason other than because of COOVID-19. You say that everyone who has to go to the hospital is being tested. Will these tests be reimbursed in all cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u67	Yes, because they belong to the case definition. Hospitals may take a test from incoming patients if they see a need to do so. This may be the case, for example, when surgery is required, in which the patient will be in contact with doctors for hours. So the hospitals decide for themselves, but since those patients are part of the case definition, those tests are refunded.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u68	Okay, thank you. Mrs De Block, as regards my question concerning AstraZeneca's immunity, you say that this was part of negotiations and that that is the normal course of action. That's what you reported last week. If that is true, then it must have happened in the past. Which company has been granted all this immunity for which product in the past? I have not yet received an answer to that, although I find the question very interesting. As far as the TBC vaccine is concerned, it is a study of the UMC in Nijmegen. According to that study, the TBC vaccine would not immediately protect against COVID-19, but would boost the immune system, which would provide additional protection and reduce symptoms. In my opinion, it is an interesting study, which should certainly be followed by your department. I read it in an article in De Morgen in March of this year. Perhaps it should be done and you can contact the colleagues of the UMC in Nijmegen about how far this pilot project is going. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u69	Madam Chair, Madam and Mr. Ministers, thank you for your many clarifications. As mentioned earlier, we are convinced that a prudent exit from the crisis will also require the implementation of other mechanisms, such as testing capacity, and thus mass screening in the population, but also through the forecasting of a sufficient stock of reagents for carrying out these tests, as well as the optimal management of stocks. You have been able to give us information on this point and it is encouraging. I also hear you paying attention to the needs of professionals and to the need and usefulness of ensuring that the workforce will be needed in the coming months. With regard to pooling, you have said, Minister, that this is an interesting solution. I'm glad to hear that. We will wait for the various developments that might occur in the future regarding this type of testing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u70	Minister, I don't know if anyone else has already asked because I haven't heard everything, but is it possible to get that audit from the FAGG?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u71	I want to ask them that question. This is, of course, about an audit that relates partly to a person. As a result, such an audit is always confidential. If the FAGG and the person themselves agree, I can work with the FAGG to see how this can be communicated to Parliament. It is about information that concerns a person and therefore this is usually kept confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u72	Even if we have to read this somewhere, that's not a problem for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u73	I'll ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u74	I will not take up everything that my fellow Members have already said, but I believe that many questions remain unanswered. I therefore believe that it is only natural that we should be able to look at the audit from which you have read out. As far as autumn and the testing capacity that we will need at that time are concerned, I believe that we can already make a new appointment within a few weeks, because you are worried, and so am I. We're not ready. It is obvious that we are not ready for 70,000 tests a day. As a general practitioner, I'm afraid I'll be looking forward to the next few weeks. We know that there will be a lot of problems. Minister De Block, regarding the vaccine and purchase at AstraZeneca. Thank you for your answer to my questions on the subject. You said it was about a contract no gain, no loss for the pharmaceutical industry. In any case, for us, it will be about no gain, all loss, because we will have to pay everything and you and the European Union have caved in to the Big Pharma lobby. Not only do we pay for research and the development of the vaccine, but we also pay for liability in the case of certain claims. You say that not all claims are eligible for this. Can you clarify exactly what claims it is about and what 'consciously wrong behaviour' is about? I believe that this is a dangerous precedent that we may be able to overcome even after the pandemic. You are also talking about EUR 2.9 as a compromise. How can you be sure this is the cost of this medicine? Isn't there a catch when you say the price can still change? It would be about the price to which AstraZeneca is committed during the pandemic. Does this mean that two doses can be administered at that price, but that the price may then go up? I shall then come to my final question. 3.8 million people can be vaccinated. That's a very large group. Does this mean that we are betting on a horse or how many extra doses do you think will be needed of any other vaccines that will come on the market?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u75	Madam President, Minister, I am not reassured about the controversy surrounding the FAGG. I look forward to the results of the talks and hope that you will keep us informed. As far as AstraZeneca's liability clause is concerned, Madam Minister, I am not reassured either. I am very much in agreement with the comments made by Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Merckx. I hope that our people will not be burdened with this in the future. I keep thinking it's a weird construction. On the other hand, Minister, if I look at some of the things that people are working on every day and about which people are concerned, I will not get an answer or only some of it. I am talking about the fact that people can just come back from a red zone without being tested and nobody is awake. That's dangerous. I imagine a lot of people are awake from that. Then it is simply said that this is the decree and that this is something for Flanders. If I look at the long, complicated road that is apparently to be taken if there are outbreaks in education, namely through RAG, RMG and national crisis cell, then I will not even get an answer. Those are things that parents are working on. People are worried about that. These are things that wake people up and we're just getting over here. There's a Security Council, there's inter-ministerial conferences, there's an Inter-Federal Committee, there's a lot of gremia we can talk about. Don't they ever talk about it? Don't you give your idea about that? Have you no idea, then, I wonder? Surely you can't ask the people to fight the virus together, but to stay on your own island? In the meantime, I thought that enough consultation committees were being set up to discuss this issue and that we could get a clear answer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u76	May I add something to this? I made this comment at the National Security Council. Are the regional authorities ready? Are the quarantine protocols, testing and measures complete? The answer was yes. I replied that it would be best to be uniform for the whole country, so that we do not close a school in Liège, but keep one open in Mechelen or vice versa. At the same time, the RMG was asked to check whether the protocols were compatible. These are the powers of the regional authorities. This does not mean that we want to shuffle responsibility, that is what it is all about in Belgium. The feedback I got on that was that there were differences, but they're smoothed out. The last thing I want to say is that the regional authorities seem to have agreed with the CLB doctors on the protocol and the procedures they have to follow when a contamination is detected in a classroom. That protocol runs through the regional agencies, as has been the case so far with every local outbreak. That makes sense, too. It is the regional agencies that have the information, the tools, the people and the knowledge to map local clusters. They also look together with the CLB doctor with whom the children and teachers have been in contact, who needs to be tested and who needs to be quarantined. This is what the agreements between the CLB doctors and the regional authorities are about. On these three points, the regional ministers said that they were ready, because there were agreements. I think it is. I am counting on them to make clear agreements and procedures so that, as soon as something happens in September, effective action can be taken. I made an offer to the regional health agencies. If tests are to be carried out, either a local clinical lab or the national platform will be able to perform them. That's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u77	Thank you for your reply and your further statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u78	Madam Minister, with regard to the liability clause and the concept of shared liability, it would not be bad to know exactly which clause has been included. So we can see whether or not a precedent value should be attached to this. If that were possible, it would be interesting to look at that clause to see what shared liability exists between the firm on the one hand and the countries that the firm should safeguard, as you have mentioned. My second point concerns psychosocial support and mental health care, both for the inhabitants of our country and for the care staff. I understand the injection in the hospitals still needs to be worked out. Once again, I would like to reiterate that this is urgent for our care staff, both in hospitals and at home nurses, as well as for staff in residential care centres, even though the latter is subject to a different level of competence. There are now poignant cases in the care institutions or in the care actors. If this can be made concrete quickly and can be more than what it is now, then it must be done. Each hospital has tried to scale up its prevention plan, but I think additional injections are necessary and useful. It's a little vague now. The same applies to the psychosocial managers. I have now understood what they are doing in the context of the psychosocial intervention plan, to which you referred. I have already referred to it in my question. Following the terrorist attacks in Brussels, psychosocial managers have already drawn up a plan on precautionary, acute care and aftercare. I believe that this exercise should now be repeated before the COOVID crisis, so that lessons can be learned for the future. My third point concerns both you and Minister De Backer. The increased number of steel collections in hospitals, triage and purchasing centres is rightly covered by the necessary funding. However, Minister, there is a discussion between the clinical labs and the hospital labs. You referred to the Clinical Biology Commission. That's covered by a protocol that determines how the labs can be reimbursed. However, I was referring to the phase for which I asked a question. Madam Minister, I hope that this will be taken into account in the debate on additional hospital funding leading to the COVID crisis and the way in which it should be compensated. These are the nursing activities that take place during the sampling operations, for example when tests are carried out to allow for outpatient activities or in the context of preoperative screening. We need to list these additional costs in order to see if they can be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u79	Madam President, Madam and Minister, in my view, the overall challenge is the control of the epidemic and the spread of the virus. This is essential and yet, at the same time, I have the feeling that you are navigating on sight because there are a whole series of figures which are indispensable for the epidemiological subject and which we do not have: there is no data on the rate of contacts made by persons whose test is positive, nor on the rate of isolation of positive persons who are not tourists (i.e. on the majority of positive persons), there is no data on the delay between testing and the start of the tracing. It's a series of examples, but they're quite challenging. We are therefore sailing on sight and there is a lack of operational efficiency, which is evident on the tracing, testing, cluster monitoring, the effectiveness of isolation of positive people. I think we need to launch a big accelerator on these subjects. As far as the testing of tourists returning from orange areas is concerned, I have been advocating for several weeks to facilitate testing for people returning from orange areas in the image of what is being done for people returning from red areas. In the background, orange areas and red areas, this can mean everything and anything. There may be isolated people in red areas who have run very low risk and others who are doing fiesta in orange areas and for which the risk is very high. To do this in September, Madam Minister, is to have lost several weeks. It's mostly triggering the device once everyone's almost back from vacation. It's late, too late, and I regret it. As for the DiaSorin, in my eyes there are still large areas of shadow. I will look at the series of documents that you have committed yourself to sending: audit and studies. I will examine this, but I confess that I remain dubious in this matter. Madam Minister, on the VOCID-19 vaccine, you mentioned an amount of €27 million! You mentioned a cost of €2.9 the dose to be distributed between the EU and the Member States. According to my calculation, assuming that one goes on a 50/50 distribution (half paid by the Member State, half paid by the EU) with 27 million euros, this represents not far from 18 million doses available. I do not understand very well the amount you have given and for which Belgium is committed in relation to the total amount of commitment based on the cost. Of course, I know it takes two doses per person to be vaccinated. Anyway, that would make nine million people who could already be vaccinated. However, these are not the figures that you go forward with the number of doses you could receive. So I'm astonished at the total amount you're making. The cost to Belgium seems much higher than the number of vaccines that would be received. On the liability clauses, I ask you two things: full transparency on the contract(s); full transparency of studies both on efficiency and toxicity. We owe it, as public authorities, to the citizens. Finally, with regard to psychiatric hospitals, I am still hungry. Above all, I think that caregivers in psychiatric hospitals will also stay hungry with your answer. Be careful what happens in days and weeks! It is not impossible that there is a real need for special reinforcement at the level of psychiatric hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u80	I forgot the numbers of the tracking contact. That's right. I had so much information that I missed that point. According to Karine Moykens of the Interfederal Committee in charge of tracing contact with the Regions, about 457 index cases per day are available. Half is contacted the same day, 87% are contacted the next day. After three days, everyone is contacted. Every day, they contact 573 high-risk people, 74% on the same day, 22% with a one-day delay and everyone after three days. On average, people give a little less than two contacts per index case. It's not much. In a meeting with Mrs Moykens, I asked how the other countries operated. It seems to be a problem everywhere. We really need to insist that people share their contacts. The same is true for the local contact tracing. You know that in some areas where general practitioners contact patients, the number of contacts is no higher. Even then, there is a barrier that exists among Belgians to share their contacts. At the moment with the bubble of five, two contacts, it's already difficult but if we expand it, we must also see how this number of contacts provided will evolve. It was very low at first, it then increased before decreasing again. It is necessary to continue to communicate, to say that sharing contacts is done in a reliable context of privacy protection and that the given contacts are contacted very quickly afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u81	If I can afford to call, call, call and call the people concerned again, it also allows, at some point, to establish a form of trust, and to be able to go further in the effectiveness of tracing. This is very important, including for the efficiency of the isolation rate. On this, Minister, we have no data, except for tourists. I'll go back to that because it's the maximum number of people involved. We must be able to see more clearly, it seems to me, in order to try to be more efficient in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u82	I'm going to ask Karine Moykens for this information to see if it's possible. As in the case of the red zones, also at the last National Security Council, I urged the federated entities to really follow up on the quarantine. On the one hand, we still have to do it. You're absolutely right, I also insisted that reminders be made and that people be followed to motivate them to stay in quarantine. Second thing, for example, Elio Di Rupo has confirmed to me that the AViQ already does. After two-three days, they call people back. Sometimes also AViQ social workers go to their homes to motivate them. Some processes are already underway. But you're absolutely right, at the end of the day, only one thing is important, it's...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u83	Isolation!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u84	It's isolation, it's quarantine and nothing else! We can test, we can insist on people's behavior. That too. For me there are two key elements to restore a pretty normal life, it is respect for the rules,...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u85	Barrier measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u86	And the quarantine. Everything else...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u87	Yes. We need to be more effective on that. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u88	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u89	Madam Chair, Madam and Mr. Ministers, thank you for your answers. A lot of things have been said. It is impossible for us to reply to every very interesting answer that you have provided. So I wanted to go back to a few points that seem really fundamental to me. First, salivary tests. Minister, I am very pleased to hear you say that you are not closing the door to these tests, as soon as the effects of these tests prove to be positive, especially those developed at the ULg level. I think it's interesting to be able to include them in our testing strategy. This strategy must be ambitious, especially since many communities have already expressed interest in these tests. On the other hand, as far as the social bubble is concerned, I understand that this measure was advocated by the experts because it would limit contacts – in any case in theory – and that its usefulness was confirmed by a study conducted by the University of Hasselt in May this year. I've read about this interesting study. However, in practice, this bubble is not respected, is not controllable, is not understood either, so that many experts continue to challenge this measure and its effectiveness. Again this morning, Professor Gala spoke in this direction. And in fact, I asked you how this measure could be effectively controlled. I have not received an answer to that question. I also understand, Madam Minister, that all Member States are subject to the same contractual conditions. It does seem to me that this is the least of the things. Nevertheless, it does not prevent these conditions from being in conformity with European law, in any case, with regard to the famous clause of exemption from liability which was laid down by AstraZeneca. Indeed, European law is very clear. It provides that any firm that places a defective product on the market or that generates side effects is responsible for it without any possible exception. And finally, on tracing, Mr De Backer, I hear a certain optimism from you in that you explain that many of our fellow citizens will eventually install this mobile application because it is true, it is a complementary tool to manual tracing. Forgive me, but I do not share your optimism and I regret that you have not answered my question as to how you will reassure the public and ensure awareness of the importance of using this application and of the effective respect of our privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u90	You always have to be optimistic. Optimism is a moral duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u91	On this note of optimism, we will conclude our work. I thank everyone, and the ministers for their presence and for their answers. Do not forget, Mrs De Block, the promised answers to the questions submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u92	All responses to coronavirus were provided. I still had a few lines, if you wish. For Mrs Gijbels' questions, for example. Mrs Gijbels, why these measures? The point is that with the way the virus spreads in our population and the speed with which it spreads, we must strive for a reproduction factor of less than 1 throughout the territory. Five provinces are still up there. Of those five provinces, there is a great deal above them in Brussels and for Brussels it is more than 1 million inhabitants. In the province of Luxembourg, for example, there are many fewer inhabitants. That's important. Then an exponential course follows, because once one goes above 1 with that reproduction factor, one quickly gets very high. It's no longer a matter of hospital capacity. I should like to point out that the figures of hospital capacity should be taken into account so that the occupancy of beds on intensive care is also COOVID beds. Last time, all other activities outside the really necessary hospital activities were suspended by emergency planning. That is where we are right to be catching up. The delayed surgery, cardiac problems or hip surgery are now coming on top of it for the hospitals at a time when staff are still ill and staff are having a hard time getting scared of another wave. Staff should also be able to take their holidays in hospitals. We are getting signals that quite a few hospitals and residential care centres were afraid that this second wave would increase and that we therefore had to take the necessary measures. What is the difference in the declaration of death if one died by COVID or by COVID, but by another cause? That distinction was always made by Sciensano. A COVID-dead could have died by COVID, but if someone died by something else, but one had a suspicion, for example in the residential care centres where for many deaths it was not proven that there was a death by COVID, then there was the term suspected. A separate report was then made. At the end, when it came to mortality, the two categories were counted together. In other countries, for example, elderly people with heart disease are not included in the COOVID-19 deaths, even if there was a suspicion of a COOVID-19 infection. I did reply in writing to the article in The New York Times, which was also published, that the presentation of the facts in our country was totally misplaced. I can still get you the lyrics. Mrs Depoorter, we have indeed ordered extra doses from the only three pharmaceutical companies with a market licence for our country. That's all we could get, even though we ordered more. We have always been assured that it was the maximum number. If you're told otherwise, it's on his or her account, I don't have a problem with that. Mr Prévot, you say for the questions that fall within the competence of the federated entities, that it is not your competence. We all know that there is a fragmentation of powers, but I invite everyone to look at who is competent for what. We are helping each other, but we are not going to answer all the questions for our fellow Länder ministers if we are not at the wheel ourselves. Mrs Tillieux, you asked me a question about a family planning centre that had to perform a voluntary pregnancy intervention under general anaesthesia, which should have been performed in the hospital. But it wasn't possible, I don't know why. You ask, "What are you going to do about it?" I think I will still contact my colleague, who has the competence, but I do not know what we can do. There is a right to be assisted in a family planning centre. The latter continued to work. When there is a specific case, I can't go back on what I can do. The law remains the same, but sometimes there are special circumstances, which you do not mention in your question. What do you want me to say when I don't know what problem it is? How can we still intervene months later? It's not clear to me. Mrs Sneppe, I come to your question on immunity. You asked which company has already received a similar immunity regime in the past? I'm gonna have to check that out. I've already written it down. Mrs Rohonyi said that it was contrary to European rules. I am sure that the rules are well respected when the Commission makes an agreement like that, which is still a precedent. In fact, it is still negotiating with four other companies producing possible vaccines. That must be in accordance with European law and the rules. I'll ask through the FAGG. As far as studies and pilot projects abroad are concerned, Sciensano is doing almost continuously, but certainly regularly, a complete literature study of everything that is happening both in the countries around us and throughout the world. Sciensano has a network and conducts a literature study on all new publications and any papers that are published. Last week I was told that they were working on that again. It has already been said that with the European Commission we are not betting on one horse to order a vaccine from only one company. We do not know whether, at the end of the journey of those vaccines which have not gone through all the necessary stages of the investigation, one or the other will be approved. I have made it clear that the European Commission has chosen to conduct various negotiations. Then the people from the red zones. That has been mentioned many times, Mrs Jiroflée, you should not be afraid of that. Our inter-ministerial conferences last on average three to four hours, and that's two, three to five times a week. You shouldn't be afraid that we're not doing that. It remains a major concern for the Inter-Federal Committee to get people from red zones to be tested. They are called upon to do so and are asked repetitively. To ring that doorbell right now, those people don't like it either. They're called up and contacted several times. We see that the percentage of people who do this effectively increases. We are daily informed of the number of people coming to our country from a red, an orange or a green zone on the Palomadashboard. It has already been said here: not only the zone is important, but also its behaviour there. You can leave for a green zone to go for a walk and not get in touch with anyone. Then the zone becomes orange and red before you return. Then it depends on how many contacts you have had on the ground and how you behaved there. There it is indeed important to be self-conscious and fill in the PLF before getting on a plane or leaving home. We are trying to create a basis for this. Mr Bertels, you know that the PSIPs have been extensively adapted after the attacks, where there has also been a great deal of consultation with the various states. In a post-acute phase, it is a matter for the Länder. This is a different situation. At present, we are in a post-acute phase for the people who have been affected in the first wave. We are now and then seeing flares, which brings us back into the acute phase. Mrs. Rohonyi, how can we control the bubble? He's sure we can't control it. That's a certainty. We must stress the need to reduce his contacts. We know that most infections occur in the family or social sphere, not in the workplace. There is evidence that most infections occur in the family or social sphere. This means that if anyone in the family gets infected, this person will spread this in the family. After all, there are very close contacts in the bubble. That way things can get out of hand. For every scientist who can prove some opinion through studies, there is another scientist who says this is nonsense. By the way, you yourself referred to Professor Gala's remarks. However, the necessary evidence has been provided by two separate universities. I can only say that the measure to reduce the number of contacts was indeed drastic. At that time, however, this measure was necessary, as other measures were needed. I am thinking, for example, of the province of Antwerp. These measures were also very drastic and they were not limited to the places where the problems arose. The problems mainly surfaced in the city of Antwerp and after that also in some other municipalities. However, the measures were announced for the whole province, which was difficult for many to accept. However, the measures were gradually reduced. It is seen that the measures have been successful. There is also currently a stabilisation of the number of infections in Brussels. However, this number remains too high and it is carefully examined whether the measures taken to control the situation are satisfactory. There was Mrs Merckx's question about the clause. However, I have to ask whether there is any confidentiality in this matter. I will ask Mr De Cuyper of the Agency. Together with the expert group, he receives the necessary information. I have to ask, I didn't look at that clause myself. I get direct reports, but also from the Inter-Ministerial Conference, the crisis cell and Mr De Cuyper himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u93	Madam Minister, I have not yet received an answer to the question about dental hygienists. What about the reimbursement of the treatments they do? They are really waiting and getting into trouble because they are now very busy for the first year and they are no longer within the scope of the social regulation as regards the VAT rate. They will also be subject to a VAT charge, making their competitive position even more difficult vis-à-vis dentists. As long as they don't have a RIZIV number, that's also a problem. You refer to the R0 value. I absolutely agree that we must strive for an R0 value that is less than 1, because at that time the epidemic will go out. How locally can we approach, view and act on that R0 value? With all the knowledge and skills we have gathered, how exactly can we use our tools to limit those local outbreaks so that the rest of the country does not pay for local outbreaks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u94	Madam President, for the dental hygienists, there was an agreement in the Dentomut framework for 2020-2021. A project had to be developed there and a sum had to be allocated to the dental hygienists. That has been delayed, but it is being reworked. There is consultation and the association of the dental hygienists is also involved. I do not think that it is already the case to give a real nomenclature number to the dental hygienists. That is not in the Dentomut agreement, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u95	Madam Minister, as far as flu vaccines are concerned, we will no longer discuss them, but I refer you to the discussion we had on 8 July. Then you told me that you had 2.9 million flu vaccines at your disposal and that you would have 500,000 more through Europe. Perhaps you could look it up in the minutes. As far as the clause is concerned, it is not getting any better, Madam Secretary. I just heard you say you didn't actually look at it. So you make a million-dollar deal, you communicate it to the citizens, but you didn't look at that clause.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u96	I said I didn't have the clause with me, so I can't deliver it to you. I will ask them and if possible in the light of the confidentiality obligation and if other countries are allowed to make them known, I will give them to you with great pleasure. Thou shalt not twist my words; I have said that I have not them with me. I am being briefed directly by Mr De Cuyper. Even though the clause is an important part of the agreement, I would point out that everything in it is important. Don't think we're going to make a tough decision, along with all the European Member States, and not read the documents! Please!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u97	Madam Minister, you say that you communicated a day before the clause was renegotiated, that you didn't look at them afterwards if you had them with you. I'll listen to your words again later and that you were briefed by Mr De Cuyper. I think this is a very important agreement and you are asking the taxpayer to guarantee your deal of making funds available in case of side effects over the long term. It is only natural that the clause should be made public. It is not because Europe is making a certain decision that we are allowed to throw our taxpayers in the eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u98	Mrs De Block, with regard to your answer to the voluntary termination of pregnancy, you take the case of anesthesia, which was also included in my question, but my question was much more general than that. I expected from you a reaction on the issue of GVI and difficult deadlines to meet in this period of VOCID-19 and containment especially! I imagine that this debate will come back to the table at our next sittings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic253x.u99	This concludes our question and answer session. I thank everyone for your participation and perseverance until this late hour. I also thank the services and translation.
