ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u1	Colleagues, the minister tells us to be available until 5:45 p.m. For the first time, we're going to use the timer. We will start with a topical debate. The intervenor has two minutes to ask his question, the minister has five minutes to answer, and there are two more minutes for the reply. For oral questions, the intervenor has two thirty minutes to ask his question, the minister has the same time for his answer and there is still a two-minute reply. Mr Minister, the first point concerns the issue of M7 cars, for which you have already answered topical questions at the plenary session last Thursday. We have several speakers on this issue. The first one, Mr. Rigot, is not present. Mrs Vindevoghel, Mr Toventors, Mrs Buyst and Mr Van den Bergh followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u2	Mr President, I may be mistaken, but this is not in line with the agenda as I see it on the website. I do not know whether colleagues are reaching the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u3	The questions are on eMeeting and we are supposed to start with the current affairs debate. Is this a problem that we are starting with a topical debate on M7 cars? Are there any other speakers than those I mentioned who have a question about M7 cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u4	Mr President, I am one of the questioners and would like to ask my question, but I am a little surprised by the procedure. Maybe there's a new way of working, but in the past, the questions were just asked in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u5	There have been changes. I'm also gradually discovering the new way of working. We have a timer now, too. I am not the one who sets the order of the questions. If you have any questions about the M7 cars, they will be asked at the beginning of this meeting. If this is not clear in eMeeting, I will relay the problem to the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u6	Mr President, it would also be better if it were to appear on the agenda and in eMeeting as such, because there may be speakers who are not present for the mini-debate, because it is not on the agenda until later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u7	There is nothing I can do but ask the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u8	Mr President, I agree with Mr Van den Bergh. No problem that things change, especially when it brings about a good debate, but then it would indeed be quite as planned. After all, we are all trying to organize ourselves and in this way we are very surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u9	Colleagues, I understand the surprise; this is new for me too. Today we will work in this way. Then, through the services, we will try to ensure that everyone is aware of this kind of topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u10	Minister, SNCB ordered 445 M7 trains for a total price of EUR 1.3 billion. The delivery was planned between 2018 and 2021. An option was signed for 917 additional carriages, bringing the total to 1,362 carriages for an amount of EUR 3.3 billion. The first delivery was scheduled for 2018, but that date was not reached. SNCB already stressed in 2015 that the new M7 trains meet the latest European standards for the accessibility of people with reduced mobility. This was read in a press release from SNCB in 2015. I would like to quote from the press release of 23 December 2015: "With the M7 carriage, SNCB will have rolling stock that can be counted among the best in Europe in terms of infrastructure and comfort for people with reduced mobility inside the carriage. It is therefore all the more regrettable that a number of unfounded comments have been made in recent days on the accessibility of the M7 trains." As early as 2015, the Train Passengers' Consultative Committee considered that SNCB's decision to purchase around 500 double-deck vehicles for a sum of several billion euros was inappropriate and evidence of a clear lack of policy vision to prevent the purchase today of a large amount of equipment that is not adapted to the future. The last thing we have to do is order carriages with a floor height between 55 and 76 centimeters. However, what does SNCB do? It orders EUR 3.3 billion in trains with a floor height of 63 centimetres. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. First of all, since there were sufficient alternatives to purchase trains that are easily accessible, such as the Bombardier Omnio, are the M7 couples not a miscarriage? Secondly, was the accessibility of the trains on the platforms an important condition for the new wagons? If so, why did they order the most inaccessible train sets? Thirdly, why chose the M7 sets when the Advisory Committee of the Train Passengers gave a negative opinion? Did they choose the M7 because it involved economic interests, given the partial production in Bruges? Was there pressure from the management of Bombardier or other patronial organizations to place this order?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u11	Thank you, Mrs Vindevoghel. Two minutes, it stays very short.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u12	Mr Minister, the new M7 trains were bought in 2015 and have a wagon height of 63 centimeters, which does not correspond to the existing platform heights in the Belgian stations. This makes it impossible for wheelchair users and persons with reduced mobility to have independent access to the train. However, the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap warned even before the purchase of the possible accessibility problems with these M7 devices. Why chose SNCB and did the government confirm the purchase of the M7 trains anyway, despite the warnings? What argument for the purchase of the M7 trains with a wagon height of 63 centimeters was communicated to the National High Council for Persons with a Handicap? With a view to the future alignment of the platform height to the wagon height, was the adjustment of the platform height in the stations that took place from then on adjusted? How will we proceed in the future? Will the 63 cm be held and the platforms adjusted to 63 cm? Or will it be possible to adapt to the platform height when purchasing new devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u13	Mr Minister, I have two sets of questions on the M7, one on accessibility and one on the delay in delivery. The combined questions are about accessibility, if I understand correctly. Do I include my question about the delay in delivery of the M7 devices in this topical debate? Or is it just about the accessibility of the M7?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u14	It's your question, the content is not my problem. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u15	The new way of working is rather confusing. Minister, many elements have already been raised with regard to the accessibility of the M7. I would like to add two elements, in particular two important documents, which are the basis of its operation for SNCB. Firstly, there is the management contract. The current management contract dates back to 2008. I assume this will remain valid as long as there is no new one. The management contract lays down clear conditions for access to train equipment, sets certain objectives and also explicitly states that the National High Council for Persons with Disability should be involved in the ordering of new train equipment. Then I come to the order that would have been decided in December. It is not entirely clear to me what the status of the December decision is. Perhaps you could explain that a little bit more. Is that a final decision? Is that a decision of principle? I have heard several things about this. Maybe it's a good idea for you to clarify that. Was the National High Council for Persons with Disability involved in this? Wasn't that a necessary condition, in accordance with the management contract? Secondly, I would also like to mention the resolution adopted unanimously by the Chamber of Representatives on 2 July 2015. It clearly sets out the accessibility of rolling stock as an important requirement when ordering new vehicles. These are two very clear requirements with regard to SNCB. My fellow Members have already mentioned it, and today it appears that these requirements are not being met. What's your reaction to this? I refer to a debate we held on the same subject in January 2016, just after the first M7 vehicles were ordered, when your predecessor, Mrs Galant, made a very explicit statement that, in the event of a subsequent order, an evaluation of the first M7 vehicles will have to be carried out. The logical question is therefore: has this evaluation already taken place? That seems difficult to me, since the M7 vehicles have only been tested on our grid since last week. As regards the delay in delivery of the M7 trains, as has already been said, one train set has recently been tested between Liège and Brussels. Have you already received a plan from the manufacturer for the further roll-out of the M7 vehicles that have been announced? Can you explain more about when the delivery will take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van den Bergh. Everyone is trying to adapt to a new way of working. I think it takes a little time to run the system. Mr Rigot, you have joined us and have spoken in this topical debate on M7 cars. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u17	Thank you, Mr President, unfortunately I was retained in another committee so far. Minister, we have recently learned of this purchase of M7 cars for our SNCB fleet. The National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) has denounced the order of these M7 cars which are not part of what is being sought, i.e. the uniformity of the height of the docks and cars. An identical complaint had already been made in 2015 by the same Commission with respect to these cars which do not allow autonomous access to trains for persons with reduced mobility and especially for persons in wheelchairs. These cars will therefore be added to the large fleet of unadapted cars, and when it is known that the service life of these cars is around 30 years, it can be considered that you will therefore penalize through SNCB a large number of users who will not be able to access public transport freely. Mr Minister, Article 45 of the SNCB Management Contract states that "in the purchase of new rolling stock, SNCB undertakes to provide specific equipment for PMRs, as well as for visually impaired and hearing impaired persons". The CSNPH considers that this obligation has not been fulfilled. Are you able to confirm this information? If so, how does SNCB explain this? How does SNCB justify this new order if these cars had already demonstrated their limits at the time? Has SNCB considered ordering cars that would have allowed independent access to persons with reduced mobility? Has a potential incremental cost been assessed? If so, what would it have been? What measures will be taken to guarantee independent access for everyone? SNCB has recently established an "accessibility coordinator" to facilitate the life of PMRs. Is it envisaged to give it a mandate as soon as possible in order to provide a concrete, realistic and as efficient response as possible to implement this autonomy? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u18	Minister, it's yours. In theory you have five minutes, but you have a fairly flexible president in front of you, as you have seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have read the opinion of the CSNPH on the new M7 material. These M7s are currently in the test phase and will soon be responding to a sharp increase in the demand for seating positions. SNCB is currently evaluating these new equipment and has not yet formally launched a new order. In addition, SNCB's CEO committed to the CSNPH to ask Bombardier if improvements to M7 equipment could be made in terms of accessibility. However, to put it in context, here are some figures relevant to this debate, from Mrs Buyst's written question No 118. The total number of SNCB docks is 1,222; 25% of them are 55 cm high, 34% are 76 cm high and 41% are 28 cm high. At present, therefore, the perfect height of rolling stock does not exist: if you put it in line with the height of 76 cm, you have difficulties starting from the 55 cm and 28 cm docks, that is, 68% of the docks do not respond to them. If you put them at 55 cm, you will be level but the other two types of dock will not be accessible. If you put them in relation to the height of 28 cm, 59% of the docks do not respond. So, says SNCB, the perfect height doesn't exist. According to SNCB, the new M7 car order therefore meets the need for a compromise between the heights known to remain in the future or to be developed, i.e. the 76 cm and 55 cm high wharfs. However, I would like to point out that during this term, the number of stations where there is a possibility of booking assistance three hours in advance has almost doubled: we have moved from 18 stations to 41 stations – and these are the most important stations – which represents two thirds of the passengers who take the train on a weekday basis at one of these stations. In 132 additional stations, PMR assistance is available for a 24-hour reservation period. As far as SNCB's PPE policy is concerned, the European obligations are clear. The challenges are great. In order to identify them, SNCB has appointed an Accessibility Coordinator to implement SNCB's policy on the accessibility of PMRs. It took effect on 1 January 2020. I am very sensitive to the problems of people with reduced mobility and, as one of you said, it is not just the disabled. They can also be persons who are blind or others who suffer because of their physical condition or people with a lot of luggage or sandaus. Attention must also be paid to the ageing of the population. We must therefore continue efforts on accessibility. With this new coordination function, SNCB aims to improve its PPE policy and ensure a more coherent approach. The challenge is not only about the height of the rolling stock, but also about stairs, escalators or elevators and external accessibility to the station – which is not part of the railway domain. In the face of these challenges, it seems to me appropriate – and the initiative may come from you – to invite SNCB and its new "accessibility" coordinator to come and explain the issues at stake, to come and explain in detail what is in its mission letter as well as the vision and strategy of society on this subject before your committee. As I have already said publicly, it seems to me that in the investment plans for the next 11 years – we have asked for 35 billion in the PNEC – it would be appropriate to devote at least one billion to the problem of accessibility in the broad sense, i.e. the upgrading of the docks, the standardization of escalators and elevators and equipment for access to trains. This is a real challenge, but I know that SNCB and Infrabel are already working on it. When work is carried out at the station, systematically, the docks are put at the height of 76 cm, podotactile pavements are laid, elevators are placed. In the coming weeks, it would be interesting for the newly appointed "accessibility" coordinator to come and explain in detail the strategy of SNCB and Infrabel in this area, since both are directly concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u20	Minister, I take note of your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u21	Mr President-in-Office, despite the many comments made by the new M7s, this situation is beyond my comprehension. Now you suddenly speak of different heights, while the SNCB had decided to bring all platforms to a standard height of 76 centimeters.. Now you will have to find all possible ways to solve the problem. It shows very little professionalism that the opportunity has not been taken to provide immediate solutions so that passengers can take the train in a good way. It is my personal opinion that Infrabel and SNCB should be brought back together under one company, so that coordination is done much better and situations as we are experiencing today are avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It's incomprehensible. One knows in advance how high the platforms are: 83 % of the platforms is 76 centimeters, the rest is 55 centimeters or 28 centimeters high. However, equipment with a height of 63 centimetres is chosen. I did not hear a clear argument, which I had asked for, except that it was a compromise. In my view, however, this is not a compromise. In my view, that's just nothing. SNCB would have chosen better for a standard size. In that case, she would have had less work than she has now. To my question how to proceed, you answer that there is a need for further debate. I totally agree with that. But there will be trains with a height of 63 centimeters. Will the platforms be adapted to that height of 63 centimetres and unified everywhere or what will SNCB do? That is still not clear to me. It's incomprehensible. This should form part of a clear vision with clear objectives and clear means and be incorporated into a management agreement. That too is not possible at the moment. After all, there is a lame government in current affairs. I fear and therefore conclude that the less mobile passengers will be able to wait a very long time before they will be able to take the train on their own.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u23	Mr Minister, I am a little surprised by your reply. The answer was, of course, prepared by SNCB and SNCB wishes to stress that it is making a great deal of effort for people with reduced mobility. That's true, I acknowledge. But when it comes to ordering the rolling material, there are obviously mistakes. Surely it is up to the Minister for Mobility to see to that, with the old management agreement in one hand and Parliament's 2015 resolution in the other hand, and in accordance with the promise of your predecessor, Mrs Galant, that a review would be carried out before a new order was made. I don't understand why that's not done. Reference is made to three platform heights. That may be so, but SNCB's CEO, together with Infrabel's CEO, stated explicitly two or three years ago in the committee that from then on the standard platform height would be 76 centimeters and that there would be investments to inform all platforms. You spoke of a billion dollars. I therefore believe that it is only logical that the standard height of 76 centimeters should be used for access to the rolling material. I find it incomprehensible that we are still ordering trains whose access is lower, with all the obstacles that this entails. I believe that an interim solution can be found for the platforms where the step is even lower, and that the material should be tuned to the new standard, 76 centimeters. I do not understand why we are still ordering material that does not meet that standard. I did not receive an answer to my question as to the status of the M7 vehicles. Is it finally decided? Or has a first step been taken in the run-up to that decision? Is there going to be an evaluation before a final decision is taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u24	Mr President, I will be very brief: I believe, first of all, that everything has been said, but unfortunately I am also expected in another committee for a vote, which is complicated by the change in the agenda. Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand your speech, there must be no compromise on accessibility. The question is not just about cars, it is also about our stations. 21 of these are fully accessible to PMRs, which remains a very low rate. Emphasis must be placed on ensuring that our public transport is accessible to the most vulnerable people for greater freedom of movement. We must all commit ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u25	Minister, a few years ago the station environment of Neerpelt underwent a thorough metamorphosis. The platforms were refurbished and under the tracks a new pedestrian tunnel was built with a staircase directly from the parking lot to the lifts. An amount of EUR 9.5 million was earmarked for the renewal operation. So much for the good news, because since the introduction of the new infrastructure there have been regular complaints from travellers about vandalism, damage and graffiti. Especially the elevators have to pay for it. When I asked you a question about this in 2017, you let me know that the lifts had to be repaired 12 times that year. Because the necessary spare parts were not immediately available, the lifts could not even be used for a few months. Unfortunately, there doesn't seem to be any improvement in sight. After all, I heard that, at least at the time of submitting my question, the lifts have been out of service for a year and a half. Mr. Secretary, is this message correct? How long have the elevators at Neerpelt station been out of service? What's the reason for this? Is there still talk of vandalism in the underpass and the elevators? What measures has SNCB taken in recent years in the fight against vandalism? What additional measures are planned? Have the problems in the station environment been discussed with the local authorities? If so, what was the outcome of these talks? At the end of 2017, Securail organised a number of monitoring rounds at different times in the station of Neerpelt. Is this still happening? How many monitoring rounds have been carried out since the beginning of 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u26	Mr Raskin, we have already discussed vandalism in the Committee on Mobility of 1 October, which puts serious pressure on the availability of toilets in the stations. The availability of lifts in some stations such as Neerpelt is also compromised. According to SNCB, she cannot fight this fight against vandalism alone. It's more of a social problem. As part of the fight against vandalism, Securail conducts preventive patrols in the stations. This monitoring can be extended on the basis of reports and incidents. SNCB also has permanent contacts with cities, municipalities and police services. In the context of its integrated and integrated security policy, SNCB also concludes partnerships with cities and municipalities, setting out the priorities and a plan to address safety in and around the stations. According to SNCB, no cooperation has yet been concluded with the municipality of Neerpelt. The lifts of the station of Neerpelt are also attacking vandalism. The lift on the side of the parking is therefore out of use since August 2018. In the meantime, the other lifts were forced out of service because of repeated vandalism, which means that repairs can no longer be carried out. Vandals threw stones at the glass doors of the lifts and in the week of 11 October last the controls of the lifts were completely destroyed. According to SNCB, the closure of a lift is a measure which it does not take lightly. It is only when all its measures against vandalism have no effect that it can only close the lifts. Finally, SNCB informs me that it has decided to invest some EUR 50,000 in cameras. If the cameras improve, the lifts will be reactivated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I follow you when you say that SNCB cannot fight vandalism alone, as it is probably a social problem for a large part. In that sense, it seems appropriate to me that SNCB should establish a kind of cooperation with the Municipality of Pelt, as your answer shows that this does not yet exist. Agreements must be made to enable the necessary measures to be taken and to ensure that the services provided to the traveller benefit from them. We have been discussing the station in Neerpelt for a number of years and I believe that the shared responsibility can gradually be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u28	Mr Minister, most railway lines in the country are mixed lines, which means that they are used both by freight trains and by passenger trains. The allocation of capacity by the infrastructure manager is therefore not always an easy task. Infrabel must adapt the necessary capacity for freight to the capacity requested by SNCB. Infrabel's network statement shows the procedure followed in the event of competing requests for capacity. It consists of a phase of coordination and consultation in which a solution is sought with the parties concerned. If that doesn't work, Infrabel will have to apply the legal provisions. Minister, how many times has Infrabel applied the coordination procedure over the last five years? How often did this procedure not lead to results during that period and did Infrabel have to apply the relevant legal provisions? The legal provisions impose two criteria. The first criterion is based on the type of line and train. For example, high-speed trains and high-speed passenger trains tend to give priority to freight trains in terms of capacity allocation. The second criterion relates to the total monthly consumption fee generated by the request for capacity. Minister, how often did the second criterion prevail over the last five years and thus take precedence over the first criterion, which basically gives priority to fast passenger trains? Line 34 from Hasselt to Liège is undoubtedly a good example of a mixed line. I would have liked to have heard how many freight trains pass on that line every day. How many passenger trains are on that line every day?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, Infrabel informs me that it has not conducted a formal coordination procedure in the last five years and has therefore not applied any priority criteria. The procedure was last applied in 2013. Since then, Infrabel has been able to deal with all road applications for annual services and, where necessary, propose alternatives to railway undertakings. Those proposals were accepted by the railway undertakings at the stage between draft offering and final sacrifice, after which the lanes could be allocated. Therefore, there were no competing applications. For the answer to the fourth question, please refer to the figures given in the written annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u30	Minister, I hear you say that Infrabel has always been able to answer all the questions, were it sometimes by offering alternatives? I do not question your answer, but I believe that the broader framework should be clarified. When it comes to line 34, which connects the capital of Limburg with Antwerp, still the main city of Flanders, for a distance of 80 kilometers, there is an acceptable connection with 1 hour of travel time for the travellers in the morning rush at 6.00 and 7.00 in the morning. In the evening pits there are two connections from Antwerp to Hasselt with an acceptable travel time of 1 hour. All the other compounds you list as an alternative are not really alternatives to the Limburg commuter. The fastest route in the valley hours takes 1 hour and 20 minutes with an uncomfortable change. For the latter everything must go well, so without, for example, delay, accident or problem with connection. Other connections last 1 hour and 35 minutes to 1 hour and 40 minutes via the airport or by a boom train via Mol and hundreds of thousands of other stations. That is not an acceptable alternative for the Limburger! Infrabel's transport plan for December 2020 should be requested in March. Can I strongly urge, Minister, that a customer-friendly connection be established between Hasselt and Antwerp?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thémont's 55001577C has already been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u32	Minister, on 23 May 2018, the concept study for Dendermonde's station environment was unanimously approved by our city council. The master plan consists of several subprojects, which are developed and realized at different speeds. Dendermonde's station project is included in SNCB's investment plans. The objectives of this project are: to achieve full accessibility, to improve the quality of the passenger reception, to increase safety on the platforms and to facilitate the transfer possibilities. The implementation of the work was initially planned for 2020-2025 in the 2018-2022 Investment Plan, but has been postponed for a year to 2021-2026. Mr Minister, I would like you to give me an overview of when the phases of the infrastructure work will start. In the hope of clear answers, I have produced clear concrete questions. Firstly, will all the works be carried out at the same time? Or is there already a set order for the various phases of the infrastructure? If so, which one? Secondly, when will the infrastructure be used on the platforms? In view of the topical debate at the beginning of this committee meeting, I should perhaps have asked immediately whether the platform height would be adapted to the new equipment ordered. Thirdly, when does the installation of a pedestrian bridge begin? Fourthly, when is the renewal of the bicycle sheds planned? Fifthly, many Dendermondenaren are awake from the question of when the car park at the station will be paying for the passengers. Finally, what is the planned end date of all these works?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB expects that the work on increasing and renewing the platforms and building a pedestrian bridge in Dendermonde can start from 2020-2021. SNCB and Infrabel need to further align their plans for these works. After this work, the infrastructure for bicycles will be expanded sensitively. Currently there are 1,086 parking spaces for bicycles. SNCB aims to extend this number to a small 1,300 by 2025. The new infrastructure for bicycles will then connect to the pedestrian bridge. In anticipation of the work, SNCB has proposed to extend the existing bicycle storage at the old station building. SNCB also notes that the parking lot at Dendermonde station is overcrowded. She wants to be able to offer her train passengers guaranteed parking spaces and therefore wants to make her parking pay by the end of 2020 in consultation with the municipalities. In this way, more cyclists will also find their way to the station and the modal shift can be promoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I did not get an answer to all my questions, but I did get an answer to most of them. As is usually the case with work, we get a clear answer at the start date but not at the end date of work. It is not only SNCB that finds that the parking is overcrowded. We can determine that every day. I find it remarkable that by the end of 2020 car parking will be paid. After all, I have always understood that this would only be in agreement with the city after the end of the work of the new station environment. That will be a problem especially for the surrounding streets, I'm afraid. I'll follow up on this here as well as locally. The last word on this has not yet been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u35	Mrs Buyst has asked for her question to be postponed, but since it has been merged, her question will lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u36	Mr President, if Mrs Buyst had asked me, I was prepared to postpone my question. However, I have not heard from her, so I assume that I will ask the question and that she will pick up the answer, possibly from Vienna. Mr Minister, a while ago it became known that SNCB wants to make the parking of station Noorderkempen paying. I've been talking about the station in committee for about 15 years. We had to go through a whole agony before there was any service there. A lot of questions have been asked about the capacity of the parking which has already been expanded, but is already too small. In itself, that's good news. The station Noorderkempen is located in a region where train infrastructure was always lacking in the past. A regional station was built there with still relatively limited service, but a lot of travelers are already approaching. A number of years ago research was carried out into the origins of the travellers of the station Noorderkempen, which showed that they came from a large region. This also applies to travellers arriving there by car. The station is located next to a motorway, near a driveway and exit, in Brecht. Precisely on that spot, the traffic from the Netherlands to Antwerp usually starts in the morning. Actually, the station is ideal to seduce the driver to leave his car at the parking lot of the station Noorderkempen and take the train to stand in the heart of Antwerp for 15 minutes later. Now, instead of expanding the station, as was announced, there is the decision to make the parking paying first. I can earn money there for a number of station parkings in urban centres, in the middle of municipalities or in residential centres where traffic is a heavy burden on the environment. I do not understand it when doing so for a shuttle station like Noorderkempen station today, which is just off a motorway, where the driver must be tempted to leave the car and take the train. I've already compared it to carpool parkings; they don't make them pay either, I suppose. There too the car driver is tempted to ride together at least already. Mr Minister, what is the reason for making the parking of the station Noorderkempen paying? How final is the decision? Is SNCB willing to sit at the table together with local and regional stakeholders and coordinate views? In the meantime, an objection was addressed to SNCB and to you from the transport region of Antwerp, that that decision does not fit in the upper-local mobility vision. Moreover, the shuttle station is a crucial link to alleviate the nuisance caused by the works on the Antwerp Ring that are coming. Is SNCB open to developing a vision for such parking facilities together with the Regions? After all, it is said that there are quite a few car-poolers in those parkings, which I dare to doubt. That must then be considered with the Region. This would also make it possible to agree on co-financing. Finally, Minister, what is your view on the payment of shuttle parkings to stations? How do you think this vision should be enshrined in the management contract? Today, there are no provisions on this in a management contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u37	Mr Van den Bergh, according to SNCB, free parking in station parking is virtually no new customer, but it creates a shortage of available places for rail passengers. Parking spaces are occupied by non-train passengers and the use of the car is unnecessarily stimulated. This is done to the detriment of public transport and soft modes of transport. In addition, figures show that 30% of users of station parking facilities live less than three kilometres from the station. Some of these customers could therefore reach the station in a different way than by car. The installation of an access control system allows subscribers to offer a guaranteed parking space. It is therefore SNCB's strategy to make its busiest occupied car parks pay. SNCB confirms to me that it intends to make the parking of the station Noorderkempen paying in the second quarter of 2020. In fact, SNCB has already consulted the municipality of Brecht on this matter. When SNCB decides to make a parking fee, contacts are made with the local authorities to jointly draw up a mobility plan. By introducing a blue zone on the adjacent roads of the station commuters will not leave their car in free nearby parking spaces. SNCB does not see any reduction in the number of rail passengers after making a parking fee. According to SNCB, the customer is willing to pay for the station parking if the product and the service offer meet his expectations. One of the objectives of the parking strategy is to stimulate modal shift. Within this framework, it was also planned to increase the capacity of the bicycle sheds when a parking is paid. In Noorderkempen, SNCB plans an extension of 54 cycling sites. The experience of SNCB shows that 15% of train passengers make the switch to a bicycle when they pay for a car park. The revenues from car parking also allow the financing of the operating costs of the bicycle sheds and the service of the bicycle points.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, that there is one from SNCB. In the meantime, I had gotten it by other means. You say the parking lot will be paid in the second quarter. I have been told that the scheme would not apply before the summer; so we shall see. I am also in favour of a modal shift, but I think that, especially in a station next to a motorway, one should first try to achieve a modal shift from the car to the train and keep the threshold as low as possible. Even though I realise that there will undoubtedly be protests from every municipality and city against making a parking fee on their own territory, I understand that they want to make the parking pay. I think it is good that the modal shift gets a push in some places, but that is not the case for the parking at Noorderkempen station, which is located right next to a car strade. On the contrary, this goes against the objective of getting people out of the car and onto the train. A few kilometers further on the same road is announced in large "Get off the road, park your car for free and take the tram to the city of Antwerp." That should also apply to the referred shuttle station (and elsewhere in Flanders) next to that railway, because that is what I call the station of Noorderkempen, which has an important role to play in the modal shift around Antwerp. I think a wrong choice is being made and fear of the modal shift of the trips towards Antwerp city.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u39	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 5001777C) by Mrs Zanchetta and No. 5001798C by Mrs Dedonder will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u40	Minister, I read in local media about statements by the Ombudsman of Brussels Airport, Mr Philippe Touwaide, about the plan to intensively use trajectories 01/19 as an alternative to job 25R/07L, which will be closed for six weeks in the coming summer due to maintenance work. In view of these reports, Mr Tuwaide would have stated that the intensive use of the shorter lane would entail higher safety risks. At an information meeting for local residents, the Ombudsman would have stated that this job "is too short, slightly inclined and insufficiently equipped to be used in the same way as the parallel jobs." These statements, of course, give cause for concern among those living around them. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you confirm what Mr Tuwaide said? What's your reaction to this? Is it true that trajectories 01/19 will be used intensively during maintenance work on runway 25R/07L? Are these risks actually greater and are measures taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u41	Mr Vandenbroucke, I will not comment on the statements made by Mr Towaide. He made that statement in his personal capacity. In any case, any explanation is premature, because regarding the use of alternative track schedules to ensure operational continuity during the summer of 2020, the Directorate-General for Aviation of the FPS Mobility and Transport is currently carrying out an analysis aimed at examining all alternative schedules, both in terms of aviation safety and noise impact and operational impact. At the end of that examination, a decision will then be taken on a job use quota plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u42	In your opinion, therefore, Mr Minister, the airport ombudsman has spoken prematurely. Of course, I think it is a punishment that he made those statements, given his role. You also say that it has not yet been decided that the trajectories will be used as an alternative. Of course, there are only three runways at Brussels airport, so of course there are no many options. I am very curious to see what option other than the use of that crossroads will be introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u43	Mr Minister, I am asking you about the presence of knives at the Brussels-National airport because a Belgian passenger travelling to Portugal posted various pictures on the social networks of steak knives accompanying the dishes served in the transit area of Brussels-National. This raises a real issue of security policy coherence at the airport in that, at the same time, passengers are being confiscated in the baggage control of objects that are objectively less dangerous such as small scissors or tweezers. As a result, any traveller can board a plane from Brussels with knives which he would have found in these restaurants and which could therefore be used as weapons if this traveller were ill-intentioned. As a result, Minister, my questions are very simple. Have you been made aware of these facts? How do you explain that it is possible to get hold of knives in the neutral area of the airport? What measures do you intend to take to prevent the movement of such dangerous objects, both in the transit area and in aircraft, since air traffic safety is at stake?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u44	Colleagues, I was informed of this incident before the article was released. Mr Touwaide informed the services concerned and Brussels Airport Company on 29 October 2019. On 31 October, the press echoed it. However, the regulations in force are clear: this type of knife cannot be made available, since people are in the airside area of the airport. In this sense, this is an infringement of paragraph 1.6.5 of the Annex to Commission Implementing Regulation 2015/1998 of 5 November 2015 laying down detailed measures for the implementation of common basic standards in the field of civil aviation security. At no time may a person in the airside area of the airport be in possession of such a knife, as described by Mr. Touwaide. Immediately, the DGTA undertook actions to ensure compliance with the regulations. Instructions were sent to Brussels Airport Company to restore the situation. LAC's airport inspection inspected all the restaurants in the neutral area to ensure that the items concerned were removed. Finally, instructions were given to the airport inspection to ensure that regular and random checks were carried out in order to avoid a recurrence of this situation. In addition, to ensure the effectiveness of LAC's actions, an inspection of the area was conducted. During this inspection, it was established by DGTA that no such items were in circulation. If this situation is likely to happen again in the future, the procedures provide that the VP will be established by the airport inspection and the facts will be reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u45	Thank you, Minister. I hear that many provisions have been put in place and that you confirm to us that these knives have no place. As a result, the existing security rules were violated. I am very pleased to hear that provisions have been put in place – instructions, regular checks – and that an inventory will be made, particularly at the level of restaurants in the airport. I believe that we cannot afford to take risks in terms of passenger safety, and I call on you to continue to be vigilant in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u46	Debates of the European Parliament 55001802C and No. Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De Spiegeleer, Mr De
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u47	Mr Minister, according to the SNCB CEO, a seat on the train is barely a quarter of the time occupied. Mrs Dutordoir stated in the press that trains run empty on average for most of the time. The reason is that during the morning and evening pits five times more people leave than outside the rush hour. During the rush hour there are often insufficient seats and outside the rush hour there is a sea of space. This leads to a low capacity utilisation rate of 25%. SNCB therefore wants to encourage travellers to travel outside rush hour. They want to do this by adjusting the rates and making a train journey in rush hour more expensive than a train journey outside rush hour. A benchmark study on the 2013 capacity utilisation rate carried out by the Dutch Railways provided SNCB with a capacity utilisation rate of 31%. That was a very good score then and higher than the Dutch Railways. For comparison, a passenger car has a capacity utilisation rate of only 5 %. Mr President, were the figures on the rate of utilization of 25% to which Mrs Dutordoir refers internal figures or did they come up through an independent study? If the capacity utilisation rate of SNCB has decreased in recent years, is it due to the variable passenger behaviour or rather to the operation of SNCB? How much is the capacity utilisation rate of the first class? Is it not appropriate to open first-class seats to all travellers during rush hour or simply to eliminate this class difference in order to meet passengers' expectations? In order to increase capacity utilisation, SNCB could also use more smaller trains, provided a higher frequency. Is that a possible option? Mr Minister, do you not think that instead of arguing for more expensive ticket prices in rush hour, it would be better to go for cheaper ticket prices outside rush hour in order to control the flow of passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that the capacity utilisation to which Mrs Dutordoir referred was calculated in a benchmark exercise by the Imperial College of London. SNCB is asking me to make a few nuances when it comes to occupation figures. SNCB, as a public service provider, is obliged by the management contract to lay trains on certain connections or at certain times, even at times when this is not entirely commercially optimal. SNCB also uses as many direct trains as possible for the comfort of its customers. For example, a train that runs between Ostend and Eupen can be heavily occupied between Ghent and Brussels-Zuid while the other parts of the route are less busy. If SNCB were to start decoupling and linking its equipment, this would have a beneficial effect on the average occupancy, but a negative effect on commercial speed and punctuality. The delivery of M7 equipment will improve the situation in this area with regard to a towed train with one locomotive and carriages. During peak hours the trains can run with ten M7 carriages but during off-peak hours this composition can be reduced to one set of six or four M7 carriages. The number of places offered during the off-peak hours can therefore be reduced. The next government will have to decide on the opportunity of differentiated rates during peak and off-peak hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u49	Minister, is our proposal to abolish the first class an idea that you are fond of? After all, that could be a good solution. We do not think that everything should be commercial, because even if it is less crowded people must be able to travel. So we certainly do not want to be phased out in those times where there is less pressure. Everyone must be able to take the train, even during off-peak hours. However, abolishing the first class during rush hour could already ensure more people a seat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u50	You will have a four-minute speaking time for both questions. Apparently, there are still gaps in the new system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u51	Mr Minister, on Wednesday 20 November we received in our committee the CEOs of SNCB and Infrabel. They have explained to us how, together with the staff, they are trying to make their businesses more efficient and productive, so that they are ready for the future. They also expressed the clear message that a number of urgent political decisions had to be taken. Firstly, the investment plans. By the way, on 21 November, they presented the investment plans to your cabinet. We have heard that SNCB is asking for an additional EUR 1.2 billion over the next ten years compared to the current level of donations. Infrabel is asking for €2.4 billion for the period 2020-2024. New investments in a second rail network for the Antwerp Harbour or a new tunnel in the North-South would cost EUR 2 billion and EUR 3 billion respectively. Mr Lallemand pointed out the urgency of his financial planning. After all, the sale of the lanes should already take place for the period 2020-2022. As a result, guarantees are needed today for the maintenance of the railway lines, so that these lanes can be filled in effectively. Secondly, Mrs Dutordoir asked as soon as possible for clarification on the approach and timing to liberalisation. It is reported that no preparatory work has yet been carried out on this subject, let alone that there would be a vision on the table. Ms Dutortoir proposed extending the public service mission of SNCB for a period of 10 years in 2023. That is a very clear proposal, which must be dealt with as soon as possible by a political response. Firstly, what was your response to the presentations of SNCB and Infrabel's investment plans? What message did you send to these companies? Secondly, can you confirm that no preparations have been made for a liberalisation plan in the last parliamentary term? Thirdly, do you agree that, in the absence of a detailed vision and a plan for liberalisation, SNCB is best designated to ensure continuity of public service until 2033? My next question concerns EUR 35 billion for rail for the next ten years in the National Climate and Energy Plan 2021-2030. You mentioned in an interview in the newspaper Le Soir that this plan will require EUR 35 billion for investment in rail over the next ten years. How does this EUR 35 billion relate to the current rate of investment? What is the distribution of these resources between goods and passenger transport? What is the calculated impact on the reduction of CO2 in the transport sector thanks to these additional investments? Can you tell us what specific projects might be feasible with the 35 billion euros? I am thinking, for example, of the increase in platforms and the purchase of new trains. What is the status of that announcement or decision, given that the government is in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the assertion that nothing was done to prepare for the liberalisation of passenger transport is not correct. Among other things, SNCB was asked to make productivity efforts, to replace the old material that cannot be equipped with the ETCS safety system, to increase the level of availability of rolling stock, so as to reduce the purchase of new equipment, and to improve accessibility for persons with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u53	In 2019, 253 million passengers took a SNCB train, an increase of 9 million passengers compared to 2018. Train passengers are also more satisfied with SNCB's services, as in 2019 67% of customers awarded SNCB a score of 7 out of 10 or more and that is 11 % more than in 2018. Those results do not surprise me. In December 2016, I asked for the offer to be strengthened in and around Brussels, resulting in 72 additional trains on the S-network and the reopening of stations and stops. A year later, rail supply increased by 5% for the whole country. Apparently, punctuality has also improved. Of course, not everything is going perfectly and there must be continued attention. Overall, however, I see better cooperation between the NBMS and Infrabel in this respect. After they were called up in December 2018, the relations between the two operators apparently improved. This, of course, directly benefits travellers. As part of the National Climate and Energy Plan, I advocated financing the rail sector by EUR 35 billion by 2030, i.e. an increase in funding of EUR 5 billion, which can be partly financed by the company itself thanks to the increase in the number of trains and the number of passengers. Of this EUR 5 billion, EUR 1 billion should be devoted to improving accessibility for people with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u54	Minister, thank you for the answers, but you did not answer the essence of my question. You have indeed explained the result of the productivity increase in SNCB: more travellers, better punctuality, a little more satisfaction. I welcome this, along with you, but my question is: what is your view on the liberalisation of passenger transport? Mrs Dutordoir made it very clear in our committee that little or no preparatory work has been done in this area. It proposed, in 2023, to give SNCB a new ten-year monopoly on the implementation of public services. The European directive also indicates that this is a possibility. My question, to which you did not answer, is whether you agree with Mrs Dutordoir that we should allocate public services to SNCB for another ten years between 2023 and 2033? I'd like to hear your reaction to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u55	The government that will be formed will have all the information on my part about what has been put in place according to the different scenarios. Ms. Dutordoir indicated that she preferred the renewal of the public service agreement for an additional ten years. I have heard the message and things have been prepared in this direction but with steps that will be indispensable for the Belgian rail sector as a whole so that it can be ready to face competition, which will be formidable according to the objectives of the railway companies of the neighbouring countries. So, yes to the renewal of the convention but with strict conditions so that our public company is ready to face the neighbouring competition and perhaps go to the conquest of other markets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your additional reply. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u57	Questions Nos 55001822 by Mr Arens and 55001839C by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u58	Mr President, the Namur court would have opened an investigation into the chairman of the SNCB board of directors, Mr Jean-Claude Fontinoy. According to our information, the investigation concerns the management of SNCB's real estate, in particular the sale of old buildings owned or owned by the railways, where bribes may have been paid. As chairman of the SNCB Board of Directors, Jean-Claude Fontinoy obviously has access to privileged information within the public sector. Jean-Claude Fontinoy also has a passion for the old real estate of Wallonia. He has also been vice-president of the association Les Plus Beaux Villages de Wallonie for many years, an association managed by private and public partners. It would be in the general context of these various activities that the Justice Department is currently investigating any fraudulent practices by Mr Fontinoy. In the meantime, have you been informed of this preliminary investigation of the chairman of the Board of Directors of SNCB? Does this matter not damage the image of SNCB as a virtuous public body? Do you maintain confidence in Mr Fontinoy as President of SNCB? Even if he were charged? Can he remain as chairman of the Board of Directors of SNCB? Is SNCB going to launch an internal investigation into this judicial investigation? Is Mr Fonntinoy temporarily being put out of action during the preliminary investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u59	Dear colleague, like you, I learned from the press at the end of November 2019 the opening of judicial information by the Namur Public Prosecutor's Office following an anonymous letter sent to a newspaper. It is premature to ask questions about this now. Nor is it possible for me to comment on ongoing investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u60	Mr President, Minister, we will follow up on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u61	Mr Roggeman, first of all, I would like to thank you for the replacement. After all, a committee chairman also has obligations in this House. You have three questions. We will start with your first question about the Geraardsbergen station.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u62	Minister, the Geraardsbergen station is an important station in the Regional Express Net and is also the largest station in the region. In order to develop the site into a fully multimodal hub, the previous government has decided to include it in the investment plans for rail. I would have liked to hear from you the following. What is Infrabel's current work planning for the start of the works? The environmental permit had to be delivered by 2020. Is that timing still being achieved or is it expected to be postponed? What is the planned capacity of the new car park to be built at the station? According to Infrabel's work schedule, the platform renewal permit should be applied for in 2022. Is that timing gonna be achieved? How will the renewal of platforms improve accessibility for wheelchair users and less mobile rail passengers? From what year will the project be implemented according to the current planning? Have there been any budget renewals in the meantime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u63	Mr Roggeman, SNCB tells me that it wants to develop sustainable mobility in the interests of its customers and to valorise its territory in cooperation with local authorities. It is true that SNCB's multi-annual investment plan (MIP) includes funds to increase parking capacity in Geraardsbergen. In concrete terms, the MIP approved by the SNCB Board on 25 May 2018 for the year 2020 was allocated €2.5 million to the Geraardsbergen car park. In order to better assess the needs for parking capacity, SNCB wishes to introduce parking payments prior to the construction of a parking tower. SNCB will also raise awareness of its passengers in order to reach the station in a sustainable way. I will ask SNCB to clarify the timing and location of the introduction of paying parking in relation to the planned construction of the parking tower in Geraardsbergen. My cabinet also consults with the city administration on this matter. Finally, SNCB informs me that the increase and renewal of the platforms is planned for the period 2024-2027 and will ensure full access to the platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. If I understand correctly, the platforms will not be renewed until 2027?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u65	Between 2024 and 2027.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u66	That has been a two-year delay compared to initial planning, fortunately not five years. In any case, we look forward to the realization. With regard to the approach to the parking building, I find it a curious choice that, pending the works that start within the present and 1.5 years according to the timing you have reported, parking would be introduced payingly. It does not seem illogical to me that if we have plans in the near future to deal with parking, the introduction of paying parking will be synchronised with this. In this way, travellers are given more value for money. We will continue to follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u67	Mr Minister, in the context of a capacity increase on the busy line between Antwerp and Ghent, Infrabel included in his investment plan a project to build a third track between Lokeren and Sint-Niklaas. Infrabel would carry out an analysis of capacity and the need for expansion from 2018. Was that analysis completed in the meantime? What's the result of that? Is it true that the construction of a third track is the best possible scenario for capacity expansion or have any other possible measures or interventions emerged from the investigation? What alternatives are on the table in this context? Infrabel also started studies in 2018 on the technical feasibility, the choice of routes and the licensing process. Are those studies and investigations on schedule? In a number of places along the line 59 between Lokeren and Sint-Niklaas there are uneven ground considerations, which only provide space for two tracks. According to work planning, studies on the abolition of these would start in the second half of 2018. Can the Chambers have access to these studies? Can you tell me which consideration Infrabel wants to abolish at the moment? In the long term, there are plans to abolish all ground-breaking considerations and replace them with alternatives, but I would like to hear which would be killed in the short term in the context of the project in question and which of the considerations could be replaced by an uneven approach or by another intervention. Finally, the resources made available for the construction of the third rail network cover only 15% of the total expenditure required, as estimated by the investment plans. So there is not enough money allocated to the implementation of the project. How will Infrabel compensate for that? Are any corrections being made or what is being done?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u68	Mr Roggeman, Infrabel informs me that the company will first determine the extent to which a capacity increase on line 59 is necessary by means of a capacity analysis. It will then investigate to what extent the construction of a third track between Lokeren and Sint-Niklaas meets the needs. There is currently a cutlery in preparation for this. The study, which will be launched in the first quarter of 2020, will also be aligned with the traffic models of the Flemish Region. Based on the findings, studies on the technical feasibility and the permit path will then be launched. According to Infrabel, a first proposal of route for the third track has already been drawn up. Indeed, in the second half of 2018, a target was set for the abolition of consideration in the Lokeren-Sint-Niklaas section. That target was also presented to the city of Sint-Niklaas. Since the talks with the city are still ongoing and there is no agreement, it is premature to establish the method of abolishing them now. In the SMIP, the third track between Lokeren and Sint-Niklaas is allocated only for the studies and preparatory works such as the abolition of consideration and the adjustment of traction substations. No budget reviews have been made yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u69	Minister, I understand that several planned investigations have yet to take place. In this context, I would like to insist that Infrabel maintain close contact with the city of Sint-Niklaas and the other local authorities. If such a third track is intended to be next to the current two tracks, then there is a particularly serious spatial problem there. It would lead to considerable expropriation in the centre of Saint Nicholas, something with which we should be careful. I would therefore recommend that you take the consultation with the city of Sint-Niklaas to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u70	Mr Minister, the adaptation of freight line 204 between Ghent and Zelzate is considered by Flanders as a railway priority and is included in this capacity in Infrabel's multi-annual investment plan. Minister, what is the status of this project? What new stops will be provided along that route? According to Infrabel, studies on the abolition of consideration could be started from 2019, which has now expired. Have these studies been completed, or what is the state of play? Infrabel provided for the launch of a capacity study, a potential analysis and a cost-benefit analysis in the second half of 2018. Were those studies and analyses completed, or are they delayed? From what year can this project be realised according to the current work plans? Have there been any budget reviews?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u71	Mr President, Mr Infrabel tells me that the feasibility study on upgrading freight line 204 for passenger transport will be launched this year. The aim of this study, in which SNCB will also participate, is to identify the necessary infrastructure and to identify where possible new stops are desirable. According to Infrabel, the study on the abolition of consideration is also ongoing, which is being discussed with different stakeholders. According to Infrabel, the execution of the works could start from 2021. The exact timing of the works is determined, on the one hand, according to the results of the feasibility study and, on the other hand, will be aligned with the work on the R4. Since the scope is not yet fully defined, according to Infrabel no budget revisions have yet been made. SNCB informs me that it is already developing its own insight into the passenger potential on line 204. In addition, SNCB also actively participated in the study of North Sea Port, which identified the passenger potential without losing sight of the necessary capacity for freight transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that a few years have been delayed for preliminary investigations, but I am glad that work can be started next year. This is a particularly important project for Ghent, for the opening of the port and for the development of the modal shift to avoid additional traffic on the R4. We will continue to follow up on this very important project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u73	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 5501908 C) by Mrs Vindevoghel and No 5501908 C) by Mrs Vindevoghel and others: 55001983C
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u74	Mr President, Minister, when I tabled this question, the station buffet was still open. Meanwhile, the buffet had to close the doors at the end of last year. SNCB chose to grant the new concession to Starbucks. Starbucks is an American multinational that not only sells overpriced coffee but is also a notorious champion in tax evasion. This multinational takes the place of a local trader, whose family has been running the station buffet for four generations. He had just devised a new and fresh concept when he was told that the concession was not renewed. An important popular meeting place of the Hasselt station district where the common man could drink his coffee at a reasonable price, was thus lost. It's a strange tendency. Multinationals get one tax advantage after another from the government, creating a gap in the budget. To close that gap is saved on public services, among other things by privatising parts, you know. The circle is round when multinationals that do not pay taxes are starting to take on public companies, Minister. The result for the traveller is a unitary sausage: expensive coffee and an empty Treasury for which the citizen is allowed to pay. In a very short period of time, we raised more than 1,000 objections to this decision. On social media it rained angry reactions, Minister. People will be allowed to pay more money for a weak unitary sausage in the future. How can SNCB, a company that lives on taxpayers' money, make concessions to multinationals that are champions of tax evasion? Why do you not guarantee that travellers can consume at democratic prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u75	Mr President, Minister, a while ago there was an article on the front page of Het Belang van Limburg about large-scale fraud involving the white checkout in a series of Limburg restaurants. Several searches were carried out as part of the investigation into this fraud. The name of the new operator of the station buffet in Genk has also been included in the investigation. Do the concession agreements concluded by SNCB standard provide for sanctions in the event that the concessionaire is guilty of fraud, non-compliance with tax and social legislation or other offences? If so, what sanctions mechanisms? Have sanctions been applied in the past? How often and which one? Were there certain conditions attached by SNCB to the current concession, for example with regard to sanitary facilities, where there was also much to be done? How many candidates have submitted for the current concession? Why did SNCB choose the current concessionaire? Finally, does SNCB consult with the local administration before granting the concession for the operation of such a station buffet? Can a local government object to such an award?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u76	You will have noticed that the timer is no longer working. So, Minister, you have the floor without a timer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Hasselt's station buffet is concerned, after market consultation, SNCB has prevented the applicant who has the Belgian licence of the Starbucks brand from operating a concession in the area where the former station buffet was located. This company is liable to tax in Belgium and therefore pays all taxes applicable as well as social security contributions. Two candidates participated in this market consultation which included the following allocation criteria: the proposed concept (25 %), the complementarity and qualitative added value of the proposed concept as a whole of the concession at the station (25 %), the proposed service and quality (20 %) and the concession fee offered (30 %). SNCB points out that it can autonomously decide how a concession space is placed on the market and this always takes into account the passenger's interest. SNCB does not consult with local administration before granting a concession and is not bound to do so. A local administration can therefore not object to an award. For Hasselt's station, the concession space was not put on the market as a concept station buffet, but as a catering shop where mandatory seats had to be present. SNCB is aware that both its rail passengers and the passengers of De Lijn are waiting for their connection on a regular basis in this area. In view of the award in accordance with the market consultation and the compliance with the public procurement law, SNCB sees no reason to revise the allocation. As far as the Genk station buffet is concerned, SNCB informs me that every candidate concessionary must always submit a number of recent certificates and declarations as defined in the market consultation. For example, this is an extract from the criminal record showing that the tenderer has not been convicted in the last three months of a crime affecting his professional integrity, such as fraud, a statement that he is in general with his tax and parafiscal obligations under the statutory provisions, and a statement that he is not in a state of bankruptcy or a similar situation. The concession agreement provides for standard sanctions in case the concessionaire would commit fraud, non-compliance with social or fiscal legislation, or other offences. One sanction measure shall be the termination of the concession contract with immediate effect. Another form of control is carried out by mystery shopping, which includes checking whether the purchases are registered on the checkouts and whether the mystery shopper receives a receipt according to the purchase. In the past, the above sanction measure has already been applied once. Eleven concessions managed by the same concessionaire were concluded with immediate effect. In the context of the ongoing legal investigation, SNCB cannot communicate any further details on this matter. SNCB informs me that two candidates have submitted for the current concession at Genk station. After evaluating the proposals, the current concessionary was prevented with the concept of 'Bruno Foodcorner'. No conditions were attached by SNCB to the current concession on the station's sanitary facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I am actually angry and disappointed. After all your list, it appears that you do not condemn the decision at all. In fact, I could have written my reply to the answer you would give in advance. You are hiding behind the procedure you have read, but that raises only other questions. How can you, as Minister of State, not have a minimum of decency or demand from your concessionaires? How can you not ask what the price will be for a coffee? Until the end of last year, these people paid 1.8 euros for a bag of coffee. That will now be 4 euros. Why do you allow notorious tax evaders to take our stations? There are more A-labels than local middle class nowadays. You must give priority to local entrepreneurs, rather than allowing the public space to become increasingly colourful by multinationals. We demand that you stop making concessions to multinationals that are plundering our state treasury. You are a member of a party that so to speak supports small entrepreneurship. We're asking you to prove that. Ensure that SNCB gives priority to local traders working with democratic prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u79	Mr President, Minister, your answer is sufficient for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u80	Mr.President, Minister, since December 3, 2019, we know who was responsible for the rail disaster in Buizingen. No court decision could erase the pain of the victims and their families. However, the civil parties are relieved that SNCB and Infrabel are judged and punished as being responsible. It is now time for the state to assume its responsibilities. It was the state that split the rail, and this split contributed to the Buizingen rail accident. In any case, that is what the court stated in its judgment. Railway companies want to introduce twelve-hour services in signalling facilities. This would be totally contrary to Recommendation 2.29 of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Buizingen accident. This proposal is a slap in the face of the victims and of public opinion because such a measure could lead to the occurrence of new accidents. The court's verdict seriously challenges the liberalization and division of SNCB and Infrabel. He denounces the lack of coordination between these two companies. I read in the annual report of the SSICF, the guarantee of safety on railway lines, that, since the Buizingen accident, more than 600 trains have passed a red signal. It is therefore not a rare phenomenon. Trains must be equipped with an automatic safety system if we are to travel safely and by train. I come to my questions, Minister. A train driver may be sentenced by a court for professional misconduct. Can the CEO of a railway company also be considered responsible for professional misconduct? Do you accept the court's verdict that the division of the rail into two separate railway companies (SNCB and Infrabel) contributed to the Buizingen rail disaster? What is the status of the ETCS security system deployment today? Infrabel appeals the judgment: do you endorse this appeal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u81	Minister, Infrabel and SNCB were condemned by the police court in the trial of the fatal train disaster in Buizingen. According to the judge, the two railway companies were negligent in terms of safety. This process is, of course, an important step in the processing process for the next of kin. In the meantime, SNCB has indicated that it will comply with the judgment. Infrabel, on the other hand, appeals. Mr President, first of all, what financial reserves have been provided by the railway companies for compensation which they may have to pay to relatives? Were commissions built for that? Secondly, how many of the 109 recommendations of the Special Committee on Parliament's Buizingen have yet to be finalized? Which ones are they? Several recommendations were in fact permanent concerns. It goes without saying that they can never be fully implemented because they are continuous elements, but at least for the time-limits, the question arises which ones still need to be implemented. What's the status there? Thirdly, the horizon for providing the entire rail network and all rolling stock with ECTS has already been postponed for two years in the past, from 2023 to 2025. What share of the rail network is already equipped with ERTMS today? Will the 2025 deadline be met? What elements could lead to additional delays? What proportion of the rolling stock is today equipped with ETCS? Will that also be protected by 2025?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u82	Mr Roggeman, SNCB decided not to appeal against the judgment in the case of the Buizingen train accident on 15 February 2010, despite the fact that, according to SNCB, the judgment of 3 December 2019 contains several elements which it strongly contests. SNCB reaffirms that safety is and remains the absolute priority in its day-to-day operation and that it will continue to cooperate with Infrabel to this end. For his part, Infrabel has indeed decided to appeal against the court's decision. The infrastructure manager found that the reasons cited in the judgment put a heavy burden on his ability to carry out his public service tasks and to carry out his activity. Infrabel believes that all the legal arguments that will be set out cannot be further explained here, since the case must be tried in the coming months. The infrastructure manager shall be covered by insurance against such dramatic occurrences. According to SNCB, at the date of 17 November 2019, 25% of the total network was equipped with the ETCS. The entire network will be equipped with ETCS by 15 December 2025. During the hearing in the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 23 April 2019, Infrabel, SNCB and HR Rail gave an update on the follow-up to the 109 recommendations of the Special Commission for Rail Safety. For more information, please refer to the report of that hearing. As you know, at its meeting of 11 December 2019, the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions decided to hold a new hearing on the follow-up to the recommendations of the Special Commission on Rail Safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u83	Minister, one of the court's conditions is to bring together SNCB and Infrabel in a single company to ensure the safety of users. This is also advocated by the PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We are indeed looking forward to the next hearing on the implementation of the recommendations of the Buizingen Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u85	Mr President, Minister, through your colleague from the Justice Department, I recently received some figures on the number of foreign traffic offenders who have been fined or settled on a friendly basis since the start of the Crossborder project. The Crossborder project is a collaboration between Justice, Police and the FPS Mobility, aimed at simplifying and automated management of traffic fines. The aim of the project was therefore to tackle impunity among the foreign traffic offenders. The project seems to be a success, because many foreign directors were sent a fine. Minister, what amount of fines has been involved so far? How much of this has been effectively collected? Has the project been evaluated yet? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, is there an evaluation planned? The project is provisionally limited to traffic offenders from neighbouring countries, the Netherlands, France, Germany and Luxembourg, and three other countries, namely Austria, Liechtenstein and Monaco. Are there plans to extend the project to other European countries? If so, which countries? Anyone who fails to pay his fine shall be sent a friendly settlement. Those who do not comply with this will receive a payment order. That payment order was due to be launched at the end of 2019. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, the Crossborder project is being drawn by the services of the Minister of Justice, with my services intervening in support where necessary. Unfortunately, I do not have the information you requested. I would therefore like to invite you to address your questions about that project to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u87	Well, I guess I'll have to. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u88	Question No 55001954C by Mr Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u89	Mr President, Vias' research shows that the number of injuries involving persons over 65 years of age has increased by 3% over the last ten years. Last year it involved almost 5,000 people, 14 people a day. Their share of the total number of fatalities is also increasing. The increase has several causes. First of all, of course, seniors are physically a lot more vulnerable. They're easier to break and injuries heal less quickly. In addition, they often face a medical problem which may be at the root of an accident, such as heart failure and disorientation. In addition, Vias identifies another important cause. More and more seniors use an electric bicycle. Approximately 7% of all mileage travelled by seniors is covered by an electric bicycle. That is as much as the percentage of kilometres they travel with a regular bike and the bus together. Unfortunately, the number of accidents involving an electric bicycle is also increasing. This means that senior citizens can drive longer distances at a higher speed. Firstly, do you agree with Vias' conclusion that the road safety of senior citizens is becoming an increasing problem? It's a good thing seniors are and stay mobile. This must not be discouraged, therefore, by compromising their safety in traffic. Secondly, do you have any concrete plans to promote the road safety of senior citizens? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u90	Mr Raskin, the road safety of older people is one of the most important challenges for tomorrow's society. You will understand that I am not well placed to talk about concrete plans during the current period. I can only tell you that in the draft revision of the road code, which unfortunately could not be approved, a lot of attention was paid to active road users. A proof of this is the recent legislative proposals concerning, among other things, the square green, the lateral distance of 1.5 metres with regard to cyclists and the school street, themes that were taken over from the draft revision of the road code. I can only hope that the next Minister for Mobility will also believe in the draft. Finally, I would like to point out that doctors also have a duty to inform their patients about certain risks, particularly in the event of health problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u92	Mr Minister, according to media reports, the city of Antwerp and SNCB are talking about making the bicycle storage under the Astridplein at the station of Antwerp-Central. The exercise would be part of a larger plan of Fietsberaad Vlaanderen. This refers to Dutch practice, for example in the city of Utrecht, where long-distance parking by bike at the station is paying to increase the rotation of bicycles. If we want to encourage people to move in a sustainable way, there must be sufficient theft-proof and comfortable bicycle storage facilities at the train stations. This is also reflected in the Government's National Climate and Energy Plan, which aims to promote multimodality in station environments by improving access by bike. In this context, making bicycle sheds is far from obvious to us, Minister. Firstly, what are the concrete plans regarding whether or not to make the bicycle sheds at Antwerp Central? Secondly, what is the SNCB's view on the payment of bicycle parking? Today, for example, in Ghent-Sint-Pieters and Ghent-Dampoort there are already closed paying bike parkings. However, this concerns a limited number of paying stalls, where travellers voluntarily choose to place their bike there. The vast majority of bike parking facilities are free of charge. Is it gonna stay that way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u93	Mr Vandenbroucke, the purpose of SNCB is to increase the number of bicycle parking spaces at the station by 50,000 by 2025. In addition, she wants to install a detection and access control system for the comfort of the cyclists in the largest bicycle sheds at stations. This allows users to quickly detect free places and be guided to those free places without a waste of time. The system also allows orphan bikes to be detected more quickly and zones with limited parking time are delimited. Due to customised parking management, SNCB ensures a better rotation of the bicycle seats closest to the access to the platforms. With the introduction of the access control system, SNCB aims to offer cyclists a place guarantee and increased security. The system will be implemented in cooperation with local authorities or other public transport companies. Exactly how many places per bike park will be delimited and equipped with the system depends on the local situation and is always decided in consultation with the local government. It is too early to communicate about the exact number of pitches per parking lot. In the meantime, for the station of Antwerpen-Central, SNCB and the city administration have reached agreement in principle on the management of the bicycle parking, making part of the bicycle parking fee. Cooperation will also be carried out to address security issues. As discussions are still ongoing, it is premature to give details of the number of places to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. As long as it is intended to make a limited number of places of the large bicycle parking pay in exchange for the guarantee that there is room for the bike and the bike is safe and guarded, I can live with that. That arrangement already exists in my home town of Ghent. I only hope that SNCB will provide sufficient free bicycle parking places, preferably at as many stations as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u95	Mr President, Minister, the Walloon Government has made a number of demands for the new SNCB transport plan. The questions of the Walloon Minister of Mobility are very extensive and include, inter alia, an extension of the offer by at least one train per hour per direction for each station and each stop, an extension of the offer on the main lines, an extension of the offer to Brussels, an extension of the offer abroad, an extension of the offer in the morning, an extension of the offer in the evening and a more readable offer. All this must also be supported by even greater investment. In other words, your Walloon colleague is asking for everything, which is quite easy when the funding comes from another government. Mr Minister, should we consider such excessively large questions at all as a serious proposal? To what extent do you, as a guardian minister, wish SNCB to respond to these questions? To what extent can this be reconciled with the recent statements by the CEO of Infrabel, Luc Lallemand, that he knows no greater waste of public money than the maintenance of certain rail links that barely count passengers? What questions of the Walloon Minister for Mobility will be included in the new transport plan? Do you see possibilities to financially address the regions for additional and, above all, non-cost-covering services in rail transport in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u96	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, following the last meeting of the Executive Committee of Mobility Ministers, the Walloon Minister for Mobility informed me of the demands of the Walloon Government regarding the transport plan. I delivered them to SNCB with the request to have them analyzed. It's waiting for her feedback now. This applies, moreover, to all questions put by political leaders, regardless of their party, place of residence and/or political level at which they are active. I would also point out that, like the other regions, the Walloon Region has a representative on the Board of Directors of SNCB. Finally, the current legislation does not allow a region to finance the operationalisation of a rail transport offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Given my party's colour, you will not be surprised if I tell you that I am a great supporter of the regions' participation in the management of SNCB and the planning of the investments. There are, of course, limits to such excessive requests. When I look at the priorities of the Flemish Region over the past few years, I find that it has always been about well-defined investment packages that have been somewhat realistic. If, on the other hand, we look at the demands of the Walloon Government, this seems to me to be a bit too much of a good thing. We shall therefore continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament 55002034C by Mrs Buyst was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55002064C by Mr De Spiegeleer was also postponed. Question No 55002131C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Question No 55002134C by Mrs Soors is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u99	Minister, until 2014, there was a direct link between Haacht and Brussels. That was the Leuven-Haacht-Hofstade-Brussels line. That connection was used daily and eagerly by many travellers from Wijgmaal, Haacht, Boortmeerbeek, Keerbergen, Tremelo, Zemst, Hofstade, in short an entire region in East Brabant. However, in 2014, that connection was abolished, and we want it back. Witness the many actions and petitions organized by different action committees and political parties in recent years. In June 2019, SNCB presented a state of play on the new transport plan. In the ten priority dossiers for Flemish Brabant which would be studied, point 6 is the re-introducing of the direct train link between Haacht and Brussels. So all those people in East Brabant were very happy, Minister. However, in December, during an interview with the regional television station ROB, a spokesman of SNCB claimed that that train connection would be restored in the short or medium term due to a lack of capacity in the Brussels North-South connection. What about now, Minister? Is it being studied or is we simply being led on, because that would be unacceptable? I have the following questions. Has the preparation of the new transport plans been completed yet? If so, when will the new transport plans be published? If not, why is SNCB already communicating about the outcome of one of the most important plans for Flemish Brabant? Is that study just in the windowdressing list and to keep the people on a leash? What exactly is the situation with regard to the reintroduction of the Haacht-Brussels direct line? Is she coming or isn't she coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u100	Mr Vanbesien, SNCB informs me that it will explain the details of the forthcoming transport plan in spring 2020. The determining factor to abolish the direct train between Haacht and Brussels in 2014 was the limited capacity of the network. SNCB always gives priority to the comfort of its customers and focuses on increasing commercial speed, if technically possible, by inserting direct trains. That is why SNCB examined the possibility of driving the train from Haacht directly to Brussels via Hofstade. According to SNCB, this proved to be technically unfeasible. SNCB considers, however, that its passengers between Haacht and Brussels have easy access to Leuven and Mechelen, with an acceptable journey time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u101	Minister, I find it bizarre that you say that SNCB will update on the state of play of the new transport plan, while a spokesperson from the same company came forward with some of the results in December. Either we have communicated too early, or the study is taken too little seriously. That is important, because people who take the train every day feel involved in SNCB's offer and initiatives. That also makes sense, because they have a direct impact on their daily lives. I can only hope that SNCB will take this commitment very seriously. The connection used to exist. This means that it is possible to re-introduce it. It's about making choices. I hope, therefore, that people will take very seriously the wishes of those travellers and not abandon them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u102	Mr President, Minister, if the RER struggles to move forward in the Walloon Brabant, achievements have taken place as parking lots have been built there. However, the vast majority of these car parks are unfortunately underoccupied. I know that these car parks are run by private institutions or companies, but is there no need to take an initiative, in consultation with local authorities, to allow for a review of prices and agreements for the optimal use of all these places? Indeed, it must be noted that there is a problem of parking within the various localities, whether in Rixensart, Genval, La Hulpe, Nivelles, etc. In short, do you not think that an initiative should be taken, with local authorities and parking managers, for better use for the benefit of as many people as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB's "parking" strategy has been in place for almost ten years and has demonstrated its effectiveness, its primary objective being to ensure a location for SNCB's passenger customers. This is also the case for the car parks you quote where SNCB customers find a place to park again. SNCB is also contesting the information that its car parks would be abandoned. The free parking facilities at the station have indeed demonstrated its limits and do not generate almost any new customers for SNCB. However, it causes many nuisances such as a lack of available spaces, the use of sites by non-travellers by train (trains and other) and excessive use of the car, to the detriment of public transport and gentle travel modes. With respect to rates, the subscriber will receive a preferential rate to have a seat guaranteed just a few metres from the docks. These costs can be borne by the employer and are tax deductible. The revenue from the car parking business makes it possible to finance the operating costs of bicycle car parks and bicycle point services. When SNCB sets up a paid car park, this is done in consultation with the local authorities in order to set up a local mobility plan. It is also suggested to create a blue area with riparian maps around the parking lot of the station in order to prevent commuters from invading the roads close to the station. In addition, SNCB proposes to pool infrastructure during periods when parking is less used by SNCB customers, i.e. in the evening and on weekends to make it available, in consultation with the municipalities. This makes it possible to offer a parking offer during the various local festivities. Finally, SNCB intends to continue implementing its "parking" strategy with a view to improving the quality of reception of its customers, while assuming its societal role by promoting rational intermodality. I would add that each car park has its specific situation because not all stations are located in the city centre, and that the realities of one place are not the realities of the other. Nevertheless, there are a number of similarities between the different car parks. This is how SNCB is conducting its reflections. I would also like to say that at Arlon station, for example, parking was made free. Immediately, the residents of the parking lot, who did not use the train, came to park there, knowing that all the SNCB parking lots are monitored by camera. As a result, commuters were found to have no available location, which forced them to correct things somewhat. Parking is free of charge, but it is reserved for train users. For other places, this takes place according to local arrangements and negotiations with the different municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u104	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that SNCB is drafting the answer. Maybe she does it mechanically. My suggestion was to resume negotiations with the various local authorities in order to arrive at concrete solutions. The problems you raise (invasion due to freeness, etc.) must be able to settle by conventions. I did not want to embarrass the work of this committee with a question that would have led to the enumeration of a number of figures. I will therefore ask a written question about the occupancy rates of all SNCB car parks along the RER lines. Indeed, it must be noted that it is sometimes said that the car park is complete, whereas when you go there you find that it is not, and that places are still available that could solve the problem of suction cars bulking around. After this supplementary question, I will come back to you. In the same way, I could have expanded my question because next to the parking lot, there is also the problem of sanitary facilities at the stations. In some cases, and for some reasons, sanitary facilities are closed, preventing travellers from accessing them. This is not a public service, and I regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u105	Minister, would you like to complete your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u106	Yes. The difficulty we have in parking is that the number of parking spaces depends on the number of subscriptions sold and people who say they come by car. This does not take into account, for example, days of telework. There's a problem here. We should probably develop a digital application that allows people to say, "Tomorrow, I'm not coming." As far as toilets are concerned, I must say that when I go to foreign countries, sometimes I am not very proud of being Belgian. When I go to stations in neighbouring countries, I put myself in the place of our neighbours. Citizens from neighbouring countries who come to our home do not find in our restaurants, restaurants or railway stations what we find at home. There is a social problem that goes far beyond the scope of SNCB. Questions were asked earlier about some stations where everything was destroyed in the space of one year: lifts, shelters for passengers on the docks, toilets. While these facilities had been renovated, everything was destroyed in a year. This goes beyond the scope of SNCB. That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u107	Minister, I welcome your proposal to seek solutions to address, among other things, these concerns about teleworking and thus the non-occupation of certain reserved places. Solutions are probably possible. With regard to infrastructure, buildings and their destruction, what was being done in other countries? Maybe we can draw inspiration from it, too. It is true that this is a matter of concern. It's sad to see that kind of thing. Unfortunately, as you say, this is something that goes beyond SNCB. This concerns all our public buildings, motorways, etc. It is a question of education that we may have to tackle as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u108	Mr Minister, as you know, it has been five years since I denounced the abolition of the Thalys Wallon by decision of your government and asked you, tirelessly, here in committee, for its return. So far, unfortunately, I have to admit that I have not been really heard. But things seem to be changing. Indeed, the new Walloon government, in which your party participates the MR, strongly advocates for the return of Thalys to Wallonia. In this regard, I would like to share with you the recent statements of the Minister of Mobility, Philippe Henry, who confirmed that "the link between Wallonia and Paris was of strategic importance for the Walloon territory". He added to the passage that he would not fail to sensitize the SNCB, the operator that operates the Thalys, and you, who are competent to restore this link. In the face of such an encouraging stance for the supporters of a return of Thalys in Wallonia, of which I am a member, it seemed important to me to seize the ball at the leap and to ask you again about this issue. So here are my questions, Minister. Do you support the appeal of the Walloon government for the return of Thalys to its territory? At the meeting of the Executive Committee of Ministers of Mobility held December 17, 2019, was the return of Thalys Wallon mentioned? If so, would you please let me know what decision you have taken on this matter and what action you intend to take on this issue? Finally, given the mixed success of the classic line set up in December 2018 between Mons and Paris, will you finally put all your energy into convincing SNCB and Thalys to restore the Thalys Wallon?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u109	Colleague, the government has always argued for as many people as possible to benefit from the transport offer. The Thalys Wallon was stopped for technical reasons at the beginning. Only a limited number of people benefited, and in addition, it was largely in deficit. Today, the SNCB's transport plan responds more to Walloon demand than in the past, notably in Charleroi and Liège, where new stopping points have been opened. More than 5% of trains were added in Wallonia and Flanders in December 2017. Thalys is a private company and the State cannot subsidize such a train offer as such without a call for tenders. If the Thalys Walloon were to be implemented with State subsidies – Thalys speaks of a deficit of seven million euros a year – it would be to the detriment of the railway offer in Wallonia, since a pre-established balance of trains between Wallonia and Flanders is respected. This means that you oppose a few commuters in favor of this Thalys to a larger number of travelers everywhere in Wallonia using the indoor network. It should also be noted that the Advisory Committee on Railway Travellers believes that this offer is not necessary and does not support the reopening of the Thalys Wallon under the conditions I have just described. At the Executive Committee of Ministers of Mobility (ECMM), the dossier was indeed mentioned and I gave the same answer. If the Walloon government wishes to make this choice, then let me know what offer it is necessary to remove in Wallonia to compensate or how it intends to finance this train. With regard to the replacement offer, as you say, it is too early to draw any conclusions. This offer is now disrupted by work on the lines and therefore does not yet benefit from the optimal conditions of implementation allowing travellers to fully appropriate this new offer. I shared this information with the Walloon government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u110	Mr Minister, I am not surprised that your answer does not satisfy me very much. I find it hard to believe that this will expressed by the Walloon government is meaningless, especially since it is supported by your party. Besides, I'm being questioned when you say Thalys is a private company. Indeed, if you do a simple Google search, you find that Thalys is a consortium between SNCB and SNCF, at 40% for SNCB and 60% for SNCF. And, as you know, in a liberalized world, shareholders always decide a company's strategy. In this case, the shareholders are SNCB and SNCF. But it seems to me that you still have power over SNCB. So to say that you have no power over Thalys society, it surprises me very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u111	Mr Thiébaut, there is indeed power as a shareholder. However, I recall that Thalys is a private company with two shareholders, of course public, but, if we decide on expenses, even if it comes from a shareholder, Thalys will demand...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u112	Therefore, when two public corporations merge, they become a private corporation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u113	No, Thalys is a private law company.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u114	With public shareholders!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u115	I can quote you a lot of private companies with public shareholders. In Wallonia, there's plenty. In Flanders too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u116	And, as we know, politics has nothing to say to these societies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u117	I don't have tutelage on Thalys.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u118	Do you have control over SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u119	The articles of association do not provide for any injunction to be given to Mrs Dutordoir when she represents the company at Thalys.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u120	Can you take a political position?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u121	That's what I did. The restoration of the Thalys line in Wallonia results in an invoice of seven million euros. It should be noted that other cases need to be dealt with, not just the Thalys Walloon on the agenda. This €7 million bill will have to be paid and Thalys will not be responsible. Thalys is a company that sells a service. In case of a deficit, you have to pay. But who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u122	I propose that the Minister complete his supplementary response and that Mr. Thiébaut complete his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u123	I'm done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u124	Mr Thiébaut, what is your conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u125	I find it difficult to understand: you say first that Thalys was removed for technical reasons, and then that it is impossible to restore it for economic reasons. I think part of the problem was that the Thalys Wallon was leaving Liège. There is no need to have a Paris-Liège link through Mons, Charleroi and Namur, while it is much faster to go through Brussels. In my view, the Thalys should link Namur and Paris via Charleroi and Mons. Also, the offer that places Mons at 1:15 a.m. in Paris is absolutely unbeatable in the face of any other proposal regarding the attractiveness offered to travellers. Finally, you always talk about profitability, but it is well known that public transport is not particularly profitable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u126	If you don't mind, we'll stay there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u127	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Buyst's 50502167C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u128	Mr President, Minister, the strike has been over for a month now, but perhaps you have new elements to answer my question, which essentially amounts to the following. We all know why we have stopped and what the points of discussion in the social dialogue were, namely a rise of 1.1 percent, the maintenance of the 36-hour week and the policy on statutory and contractual recruitment. Minister, do you have any news for us about the further development of the social dialogue at SNCB? The questions I asked in my original question are no longer topical.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u129	Minister, do you have any news for Mr Vandenbroucke?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u130	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, HR Rail informs me that dialogue with the representative trade union organisations has never been broken. There have been regular meetings over the past few months and weeks. I hope they will find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u131	Minister, the Flemish Government has recently decided to mobilise funds to adapt a series of reflections in Bilzen and Diepenbeek. This adjustment is necessary so that the Spartacus rapid tram Maastricht-Hasselt could pass in the future. For this purpose, a budget of 18.6 million euros was shifted from the Zwankendamme track file to this project. I have two questions for you, Minister. The work on the nine considered should start quickly as the building permit for a number of consideration would expire at the end of January 2020. Do you already have a look at the exact timing of Infrabel for these works? What is the expected duration of the works? Secondly, a budget of 18.6 million has been released as a result of the shift of resources. Will that budget be enough? What is the most current estimate of the cost of the works?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u132	Dear colleague, Infrabel clarifies that under the Spartacus project, a total of 14 plans will be abolished, 7 in Diepenbeek and 7 in Bilzen. Of these 14 consider 9 are located on the common train-tram route, of which 5 are in Diepenbeek and 4 are in Bilzen. For the consideration in Diepenbeek, the tendering procedure has been completed. The works will start in January 2020, because the building permit for 5 out of 7 consider will expire at the end of January. The works in Diepenbeek will last a total of 2.5 years. For the consideration in Bilzen, the file for the request for an environment is in preparation. The start of these works is foreseen after the construction leave of 2021. The works in Bilzen will last a total of three years. The reorientation of the SPV's budget to the Spartacus project was approved by the Federal Council of Ministers on 20 December 2019. This budget will be used to abolish the consideration of the common rail-tram route, both in Diepenbeek and Bilzen. According to Infrabel, the budget transferred should be sufficient on the basis of current prices and estimates. Mr Raskin, I think I will get a statue in Limburg!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u133	Minister, if you do not have a statue, I will do it myself!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u134	Minister, I hope that in the near future we will also be able to build a statue for you in the Dender region. [[Hilarity]] Mr President, Minister, the upgrading of railway line 57 Aalst-Dendermonde is considered by Flanders as a railway priority and is therefore included in Infrabel's multi-annual investment plans. The multi-annual strategic investment plan and the financing of the Flemish Region provide for a budget of EUR 1 million for the creation of a GRUP, a plan-MER, a project-MER and an environmental permit from 2018. What is the state of play, Minister? What stage is the project at? According to Infrabel, technical feasibility studies could be launched from 2019. Were those studies actually started? Have they been completed by now, or have they been delayed? The investment costs were estimated at almost EUR 60 million for this line, combined with a possible reopening of the line between Puurs and Dendermonde. A social cost-benefit analysis was planned for its implementation. What is the state of play? What platforms would be opened or renewed as part of that project? Is there a stop in Gezegem? What other additional stops are planned? There are also 16 considerations along the route. How will Infrabel deal with that? From what year, according to the current schedule, will that project be realized?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, Infrabel informs me that in a first phase the usefulness and necessity of upgrading line 57 between Aalst and Dendermonde will be examined. To this end, the specifications for the feasibility study and the social cost-benefit analysis are in preparation. A contract was also awarded to perform an aerial photogrammetry per drone. Depending on the results of these studies, further studies on technical feasibility, choice of route and licensing will then be launched. The planning of possible additional stops and the increase in platforms could also be the subject of these studies. In the construction of a new railway line or the reopening of a railway line, Infrabel has no intention of creating new ones. In this case, an appropriate solution will have to be sought in consultation with the various partners. The multiannual strategic investment plan currently includes only funding for studies. There haven't been any budget reviews yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u136	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that most of the preparatory studies have yet to be carried out. So there's already some delay on the project. I therefore hope that the preparations can be implemented in the very near future. After all, this is a project that has a very long history, and it has been going on for about ten years. When I hear that the opportunity studies still have to be carried out, I am a little concerned about the implementation period. I look forward to a proper execution of the investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u137	Mr Minister, between 2017 and 2019, a pilot project was launched in the stations of Aarlen and Libramont to improve accessibility of wheelchair users' stations through platform lifts. Depending on the evaluation of this pilot project, Infrabel provided in its investment plan for the possibility to roll out this project on a larger scale. A budget of EUR 1.8 million was earmarked for this purpose. Minister, how was this pilot project evaluated? Are these platform lifts indeed the most appropriate tools to improve accessibility for wheelchair users, or are other instruments better suited? Should this indeed be the most appropriate instrument, which stations will be equipped with such platform lifts in the future? How was that choice made?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u138	Mr Roggeman, SNCB decided, in the context of its policy to improve accessibility for persons with reduced mobility, to test a system of platform lifts on line 162 in the Libramont and Arlen railway stations. It's the same system as the London subway. An evaluation of this material took place between September 2018 and February 2019. Taking into account that the use of existing platform lifts requires SNCB personnel, this system is not an acceptable medium- and long-term operational solution for the accessibility of platforms. It was therefore decided not to continue and not to roll out this type of installation in the other SNCB stations. The further follow-up of this project is a task for the new access coordinator of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u139	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is a pity that this system has not brought the expected results, but if it is not appropriate it would be wasted money to invest in it. I hope that the budget committed, almost EUR 2 million, can be used for research into alternative tools to improve accessibility for wheelchair users.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u140	If I get it right, there's a steam train on that line, Mr Roggeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u141	Indeed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u142	However, this question is not about a steam train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u143	This question is not about the steam train, Mr President, but about the same route. You're very well informed. The railway line 52, between Puurs and Dendermonde, is an old railway line, which has not been electrified. The line was in the past the subject of investigations into a possible reopening or the improvement of mobility and sustainable rail transport in the densely populated Flemish Ruit. According to the Flemish Department of Mobility and Public Works, the reopening of the line would require substantial expropriation. That would be one of the obstacles to roll-out. Minister, who would be responsible for carrying out such a project? The Flemish government or the federal government? Which government should provide the appropriate budget for this? What stage is the project at? Infrabel had planned in the multi-annual policy planning studies on, among other things, the route choice and the technical feasibility in the current year 2019. Were those studies started and completed? What's the status? Have any investigations been carried out on the reopening of any stops or should they still be carried out? How would Infrabel handle the consideration on the route? From what year could such a project be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u144	Dear colleague, Infrabel lets me know that in the event of an effective realisation of the railway line 52 Puurs-Dendermonde expropriation will be required through the federal purchasing commissioners. The multiannual strategic investment plan only provides for a budget to carry out the studies. This is not yet the case for the realization and associated expropriation. As a first step, the usefulness and necessity of upgrading the line 52 between Puurs and Dendermonde will be investigated. The specifications for the feasibility study and SMEA for several priority rail projects, such as railway lines 52, 57 and 58, are in preparation. On the basis of the results of the study, further studies on the route choices and the permit path will be launched, including the construction of possible stops and the abolition of consideration. Since only the budget for studies is currently included in the SMIP, there have been no budget revisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u145	Mr President, Minister, I understand that the dossier is still at its initial stage. I look forward to carrying out the studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u146	Minister, SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail are subject to the laws governing the use of languages in administrative matters. The most recent Royal Decree establishing the language frameworks of SNCB, dating back to 1993, was annulled in 1999 by a judgment of the Council of State almost 21 years ago. Since then, SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail no longer have language frameworks. Firstly, in the absence of a language framework, what standard is used in recruitment to ensure linguistic balance? What procedure is used and what is the legal basis for this? Secondly, what is the validity of recruitment in the absence of a language framework? Can the validity of the recruitments be contested? Thirdly, I would like to have an overview of the number of employees of SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail, by language role and by hierarchical grade. Fourthly, have initiatives been taken over the past few years to eliminate the injustice of justice? Fifthly, which subsidiaries or joint ventures of SNCB and Infrabel are subject to language legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u147	Mr Roggeman, SNCB informs me that although the Belgian Railways do not have valid language frameworks, language relations are still being monitored. The validity of the recruitments is therefore not contested by HR Rail. An overview of the number of employees of SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail per company, per language role and per hierarchical grade can be provided in writing. SNCB informs me that there has been no language framework since 1999 as a result of the destruction of the Royal Decree of 1 December 1993 establishing the language frameworks of the central administration of SNCB by judgment of the State Council of 15 March 1999. In order to enable the establishment of language frameworks for the Belgian Railways, SNCB is working on a simplified procedure. It is based on an opinion of 22 June 2004 from the Standing Committee on Linguistic Supervision establishing a minimum language regulation for certain economic public enterprises, which is better adapted to the operating conditions characteristic of those companies. All subsidiaries are also subject to language legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u148	Minister, I think it is a punishment that 21 years after the judgment of the Council of State, there is still no prospect of a solution to the problem. Although SNCB and Infrabel may indeed have found a functional system based on the advice of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring, it remains of course a fact that this system has no legal basis and that SNCB and Infrabel are and remain subject to language legislation. It will therefore be up to the next government to rectify this situation and ensure that the language law is finally re-implemented after 21 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u149	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wollants converted to a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u150	Mr President, Minister, at the committee meeting on 1 October you informed me that the renovation of the Hasselt station was on schedule. The first phase of the work was completed and the second phase would start at the end of 2019. This phase will include the renewal of the tunnel under the tracks. However, SNCB does not seem to be able to keep its promise. At the beginning of the second phase it would be waiting until February or March. So I have the following questions. Is that information correct? Will the second phase start with delay? If so, what is the reason for this? Will this possible delay affect the course of the works? Will the planned deadline also be postponed? Which works will be carried out during this second phase? Finally, the work on the rear of the station would have been completed by now, but still not everything seems to be in order. Thus, at the time of submitting this request, the planned lift was not yet installed. When can the passengers expect this elevator? Also for the cyclists there is not yet a solution to leave the station easily at the rear. Will there be another bike goat added to the stairs? If so, by when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u151	Mr President, Mr Raskin, SNCB informs me that the award letter of the specifications for the remaining works on the Hasselt railway station platforms was signed by the Governing Council on 20 December 2019. The works will start at the end of February. The works will last from 2020 to the end of 2024. This is the period during which the four island platforms and platform 1 will be raised and renovated, together with the installation of lifts and new escalators on each platform. During these works, the train service will always be guaranteed so that the passenger will be as least inconvenienced as possible. A platform island is always being tackled at a time so that the other platforms can remain in service. Every time a platform island is renewed, the adjacent tracks are completely renewed by Infrabel. Only then will the works be moved to another platform island. Each platform island and platform 1 will be increased by about 50 centimeters so that access to the train wagons will be much more comfortable. The existing escalators are renewed and an elevator will be placed on each platform, platform 1 and in the already existing elevator shaft "Rumst" side. Each platform gets a full makeover with new shelters, sofas, floor coverings, signage and lighting. The existing canopies are also re-upholstered. The underpass will also be addressed with new lighting and façade covering. The planned lift at the entrance side of Rumst is included in the specifications that were awarded previous work. This elevator will be placed in one of the first stages, along with the elevator of the first platform island that will be addressed. The finish of the first platform island and the lift, side Rumst, is scheduled for September 2020. The installation of the bike goat on the stairs, side Rumst, is also planned for the works that were awarded last week. From the moment the elevator is placed, the cyclist can also use this elevator.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u152	You know, Minister, that this dossier is very close to my heart. The conclusion is: slow, but sure! I'll follow this up with you so that the statue will be fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u153	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mrs Van Camp 55002375C by Mr Roggeman. Question No 55002380 by Mrs Thémont has already been answered. Question No 55002384C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question. Question No 55002387C by Mrs Thémont is postponed, as is Question No 55002393C by Mr Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u154	Minister, in April 2019, at the end of the previous legislature, a resolution was adopted in Parliament to examine the role of the then SNCB in the transport of trains and the deportation of Jews in the Second World War. The Chamber asked the federal government to investigate the role of SNCB in the so-called 28 convoys from Mechelen to the extermination camps by means of an independent investigation team. More specifically, it was asked to instruct SNCB to carry out research into the manner in which the then management dealt with the German occupiers and their impact on the railway company. Such a study was previously carried out in the Netherlands. There, victims can apply for compensation until August 2020 according to the rules drawn up by the Committee on Individual Meetings Victims World War II Transports NS. Mr Minister, can you give the state of play of the investigation by an independent investigation team into the role of SNCB in the so-called 28 convoys from Mechelen? What progress has been made with the mission of SNCB to have research carried out into the way in which the then management dealt with the German occupiers and their impact? How far is the FPS Mobility's mission to open up its archives to the investigation? Can you give a schedule and a timing of the further investigations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u155	Minister, we are on the eve of the annual commemoration of the victims of the Holocaust in the Chamber. The questions put by Mr Van den Bergh and myself are therefore more pertinent than ever. In the Netherlands, about 5,800 applications were submitted last year by victims and relatives of the transports of the Dutch Railways during World War II. By order of the German occupying forces, more than 100,000 people were transported from the Netherlands to the national borders, with concentration or destruction camps as final destination. In November 2018, NS decided to pay compensation as financial compensation to direct victims, as well as to children, widows, widowers and heirs. In the Netherlands, the Committee on Individual Meetings Victims World War II Transports NS gave advice to the Dutch Railways just before the summer of last year, and in December the first benefits were paid. Mr Van den Bergh outlined the context in Belgium: the resolution to examine the role played by SNCB at the time in the transport of trains and the deportation of Jewish fellow citizens in the Second World War. You yourself stated in the spring of 2019 I read that in the Committee's report of 1 April, it was advisable to entrust the Senate with the investigation after the elections. I have the following questions, Minister. What is the state of affairs with regard to the independent investigation of the role of SNCB in the 28 convoys from Mechelen and with regard to the investigation of how the then management dealt with the policy of the occupying forces during the Second World War? What is the further planning and timing of these investigations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u156	Mr President, following the adoption by the Chamber of the resolution on the role played by SNCB in the transport of trains to the concentration camps during the Second World War, I wrote to Mr Brotchi, President of the Senate at that time, asking whether the Senate could organise or have that study carried out. After the formation of the new Senate, I again addressed that question to the new President, Mrs Laruelle. I got a positive answer to it. It is currently being examined how and by whom the study will be carried out. I think it would be a good idea, as suggested during the parliamentary work that led to the resolution, to have the study carried out by the CegeSoma, the Study and Documentation Centre for War and Contemporary Society. I hope that the study will begin soon. The services of the FPS mobility and SNCB are actively involved in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u157	Mr Minister, we look forward to a speedy conclusion of the work in the Senate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u158	Minister, I am pleased that you once again asked the newly constituted Senate after the elections. The CegeSoma is indeed a logical opportunity. I also welcome the fact that the FPS Mobility and SNCB seem to want to cooperate fully on the matter. Of course, the size of the transports is not that of the Netherlands, but this very painful matter deserves all the attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u159	Mr President, Minister, the Port of Antwerp, Railport Antwerp and Infrabel have recently concluded a cooperation agreement to double the rail transport of sea containers by 2030, which is a fairly ambitious objective. They will examine the possibility of a separate railway management model in port. There are about 1,000 kilometers of train tracks in the port of Antwerp. Experts will examine the feasibility of drawing up separate rules for the organisation of train traffic and thus organising additional flexibility. That is something that needs to be done by the port companies. There are opportunities to transport more by rail. The challenge now is to forgive me for getting the expression "to the track." It is good that investment in rail transport and port policy will go hand in hand. That is why I have the following questions. In what way are Infrabel and the DVIS involved in the study of a separate railway management model in the port of Antwerp, particularly behind the ranger sites? What are the ideas that are being examined for rail transport in the port of Antwerp by management model? How do you see things evolving? In other words, what is your view on this development? What is the timing of the study on a separate management model?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u160	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, As co-signator of the cooperation agreement, Infrabel informs me that she is actively involved in the study. The DVIS would only have been consulted informally. In reply to your question about the ideas currently being studied, I can tell you that according to Infrabel all possibilities are still open. There is not yet a single specific direction to think about. The analysis will examine a number of slopes applied in other ports, such as the management of port rail infrastructure as a service provision under the European Directive 2012/34/EU. Other slopes analysed are the management of the port rail infrastructure by an alternative infrastructure manager or the management of the port rail infrastructure by an Infrabel branch, in which the port also participates. The study is still ongoing. No future direction has yet been defined. No specific timing has yet been set. I would prefer to await the results of the study before commenting on the opportunity of a separate management model. It is certainly a good thing that the port of Antwerp and Infrabel together thoroughly reflect on how they can achieve the modal shift from the road to the rail as a common ambition, in order to maximize rail investment in and around the port.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u161	Minister, you say that it is commendable that the port administration, together with Infrabel, is looking for ways to improve modal shift for the transport of containers and other goods to and from the port. I would like to join in this because this is essential for mobility in and around Antwerp. You have not provided any indication of the timing of the ongoing study. Until when will this study take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u162	I can't give you a date for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u163	Debates of the European Parliament 55002427C by Mr Toventors was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u164	Mr Minister, earlier this month we heard from the press that Mr Luc Lallemand, CEO of Infrabel, is being nominated by the French Government as the new top man of the railway infrastructure manager SNCF Réseau. Of course, that means a lot to Infrabel. Was there a competitive clause in the agreement with Mr Lallemand as CEO? Why is that? Why is that? How does this differ from other public enterprises? What are the termination modalities according to the agreement? Has the cancellation already taken place? Is Mr. Lallemand terminated? Is a cancellation fee provided for and how much is it? You announced publicly that the government will provide a replacement as soon as possible. The procedure requires the Management Board to nominate a candidate, who will then be appointed by the Government. Is there any clarity as to whether a government in current cases has the competence for such appointment? Is there any indication of the deadline for the new appointment? What do you think are the main requirements for the selection procedure? Do you believe that the current wage ceiling will be an obstacle to the search for a successor? To what extent has the follow-up of Mr Lallemand had an impact on the substantive and strategic decisions on the announced reorganisations and so on? Social dialogue is currently under way, what impact do you expect there to be on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u165	Mr President, at the beginning of January I was informed by the French Government and by Mr Lallemand that Mr Lallemand would be the sole candidate for the post of CEO of SNCF Réseau. We have not yet received an informal resignation from Mr Lallemand. A number of requirements remain to be met in his appointment procedure. There is no cancellation fee to pay. Since November 12, Mr. Lallemand has been terminated contract with Infrabel. As provided for in his contract, his appointment was implicitly renewed. The possibility of such tacit renewal was provided for in its contract for situations where the guarantee of continuity of service and of day-to-day operational challenges is required. Such extension shall be carried out under the same conditions as its expiry contract. We are currently finalizing the designation of a headhunter. A procedure was launched for this purpose. Once the headhunter is indicated, we will determine the profile of the ideal new CEO. After that, the headhunter will have a small month to find candidates for that position in all independence. In my opinion, there is absolutely no need for Infrabel to fall without CEO. The challenges are too great. That is precisely why the procedures for replacing the CEO have been launched. The salary ceiling, as set in 2013, will be respected. I gave the Chamber's plenary session all my personal views on this on 9 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u166	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u167	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u168	Mr President, my questions are as follows: I would like to turn 55002690C, 55002691C and 55002692C into written questions, so that the agenda will be lighter in function of a next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-21-55-commissie-ic092x.u169	It's been noted.
