ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, the question was introduced on August 10. Since then, there have been many demonstrations in Belarus and the events that have taken place there are not in the right direction. We see that the democratic force of the people does not weaken, but on the contrary; but the repression of the state and police repression are savage, without any democratic foundation and totally irresponsible. The electoral commission of Belarus has declared the current head of state, in power since 1994 – according to democratic standards one of the oldest dictators in the world – Alexander Lukashenko, winner of the presidential elections, with 80.23 per cent of the votes according to this electoral commission. The opponent of Lukashenko, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, would have obtained almost 10 per cent of the vote. She has already announced that she will not recognize a defeat. Shortly after this announcement, the detractors of power in Minsk gathered in thousands of different places. These gatherings are still not fading. One man is said to have died and dozens of other people are said to have been injured in Minsk during these protests against the results of the presidential election, according to the NGO Viasna for the defence of human rights. Poland announced a call for an extraordinary EU summit on the situation in Belarus. In this context, many were concerned that the repression might become more severe, and that is to say, it has actually intensified. Despite the massive deployment of security forces, mass arrests, the exile of most opposition figures, every Sunday since the presidential election, more than 100,000 Belarusians marched peacefully in the streets of Minsk to call for the departure of the President. Although the media are largely locked up, in this country, as I said in my introduction, which is the last dictatorship of Europe, the images and information that reach us are particularly worrying. The European Union and Belgium must make this unacceptable situation at the gates of Europe a priority for their diplomacy. That is why my group has asked for this topical debate to be organised today. For us, the defence of human rights and democratic values does not know borders and Belgium must make its voice heard. Since the hundreds of arrests, we have been aware of statements by the Head of Diplomacy of the European Union, Josep Borrell, who called on the Belarusian authorities to release political opponents immediately and recalled that the European Union would impose sanctions on those responsible for repression in the country. We also took note of the statements made by the German Foreign Minister, Heiko Maas, who also pointed out that the German government was working on a series of European sanctions against Alexander Lukashenko's regime and that his country demanded to know where the Belarusian opponent, Maria Kolesnikova, was. Minister, it seems to me that it is time to take stock of this state of concern for democracy and for demonstrators and the rule of law in Belarus. My colleagues will not fail to question you about this and to have a lively debate on the subject, because the situation is worrying, knowing that Russia is both a key to the solution, but also a source of the problem. But in the long run, the solution should not become, at the end of this conflict, an impasse for the Belarusian people, like continuing with someone else who would be set up and under the influence of Russia, or worse, that Russia decide (which I really hope not) that Belarus is part of its hinterland and that, as with Crimea, it envisages a military intervention that would completely destabilise the region and the European Union de facto.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u2	Madam President, first of all I thank Mr Lacroix for the call to hold this topical debate. The situation is very serious and it is important to talk about it. This situation has changed considerably since the tabling of our parliamentary questions concerning the presidential elections in Belarus. I say Belarus because "Belarus" is targeting this vassal country of the Russian empire, while Belarus is targeting an independent country. Moreover, it is the desire of the people of Belarus to have an independent country, both vis-à-vis the European Union and Russia. The Belarusian people are now walking in the streets and the courage and strength of civil society are forcing respect. It manifests itself despite arbitrary arrests, the proven acts of torture and inhuman treatment in Lukashenko's jails and the increasingly difficult economic conditions. Last week, Maria Kolesnikova was kidnapped and in order to prevent her deportation to Ukraine, this important figure of the coordinating council totally torn her passport at the border. His two colleagues did not have the same reflex and were forcibly driven out of the country. The situation is serious since most of the opposition members in Lukashenko are forcibly deported or are in detention – often illegal. The people are rising, as well as the Belarusian diaspora. As we speak in our country, the Belarusian diaspora is in Luxembourg to demonstrate before the European Parliament. We need to hear their call and our responsibility in Belgium, as the European capital, is to support Belarusian civil society, which aspires to a democratic transition and which demands only "free and transparent elections". I'm done with the context, it's important to move on to the lines of action. We've seen a lot of arrests and even kidnappings. We know that the last person on the coordination board to be at large is the Nobel Prize in Aleksievich Literature. We also know that it was thanks to the mobilisation of European ambassadors that his arrest could be prevented. Minister, do you think our ambassador could join this movement? More generally, what arrangements could we deploy from our diplomatic mission in Minsk with a view to organising a humanitarian corridor – which is the priority emergency – for all those who are released from detention, who are victims of torture, who need to be hospitalized (often in Poland)? How to collect children in need? I don't forget that yesterday Lukashenko met Putin in Sochi. Similarly, I know that Belgium and, more generally, the European Union are following these developments closely, but it is important to bear in mind that, behind Belarus – let us not be naive – we find Vladimir Putin's Russia. Again, I wonder what position our country will take. Will we recognize the agreements that could be reached at the end of this meeting? I have heard that Lithuania rejects in advance any form of agreement between Russia and Belarus in Lukashenko. Should we consider a possible agreement null and void? I would like to anticipate by asking you whether we should fear Russian military intervention in Belarus – as was the case in Ukraine. Once again, let us not be naive: we know what could happen. It is important for Belgium to be able to anticipate events. Secondly, I turn to the European sanctions desired by Josep Borrell, in particular against the perpetrators of torture and kidnapping and against those responsible for these completely falsified elections. Where are we? I feel like the situation is blocked. Is this, as the press believes, a Cypriot blockade, because of Turkey? Nevertheless, it is necessary to ban all arms deliveries, to stop any cooperation with the armed forces and to punish the perpetrators of torture by freezing their funds within the European Union. I also had contact with the United Nations Special Rapporteur for Belarus yesterday. I was struck, and even shocked, by the fact that his human, financial and logistical resources were limited. Is there an opportunity for Belgium to support the mandate of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Belarus to the Human Rights Council in Geneva, where Belgium sits? Is there any possibility of submitting a resolution on Belarus to the General Assembly of the United Nations or to the Security Council? Finally, I would like to address the situation of the Leader of the Opposition and the Belarusian people who were interviewed this morning in the newspaper L'Echo. Will Belgium and even the European Union, like Lithuania, recognise this personality of the Belarusian opposition as the legitimate interlocutor with regard to the situation on the ground? In conclusion, I will ask again a very concrete question. What support measures are we going to put in place for civil society representatives who stand up and organize these protests almost every day, mainly on the weekend? The fear of many people is that the movement will stifle itself because of all these arrests, the increasing repression. How could Belgium and the European Union help the independent media that are developing and cybersecurity against the regime's infiltrations, or even provide financial support to the Human Rights Observatory ("Viasna") which provides absolutely admirable work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u3	I would like to add a few more questions which seem to me to be fundamental in the light of recent developments. Minister, what strategy do your services recommend to ease the situation in Belarus, whether at European or bilateral level? What strategy do you recommend to speed up the European sanctions procedure, since this is precisely what was most recently advocated by the President of the European Council, Mr Michel? What role does the United States play today in adopting these sanctions? Indeed, last Friday, the US government declared that it would announce within a few days new sanctions against these Belarusian personalities and entities in coordination with the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u4	Madam President, Minister, it has been mentioned a few times here by other Members. After the controversial election victory of President Aleksandr Lukashenko, tens of thousands of civilians have been on the streets repeatedly in recent weeks. Those protest marches were not only directed against possible election fraud by the current president. There is also growing displeasure about the dictatorial regime of Lukashenko as well as the brutal and violent police action and the arbitrary and mass arrests. In recent weeks, several members of the opposition have also been reportedly arrested. That is why I had the following questions for you, Minister. What is the government's position on the whole issue? Have you had any contacts with your European colleagues on this matter? Have you had any contact with the Belarusian ambassador on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the protests in Belarus have been dragging on for some time now, despite the threats by the government and the imprisonment of several protesting citizens. There should be no annexation of the Belarusian territory at all times. We must not leave the population in the cold. The European Union must, of course, also pay attention to the fact that well-intentioned things do not have any undesirable effects. I shall come back to the sanctions later in my specific questions. However, we must avoid that the people who have already been severely affected and have suffered under the dictatorship in recent years would suffer the consequences of sanctions. We must preserve Belarusian sovereignty and continue to engage in dialogue with the country, however difficult it may be. However, this is the only way to achieve something in a sustainable way and also to maintain stability in the region. It is one of the external borders of the European Union. It is therefore in the interests of all of us that stability be maintained in that country. However, it will be a difficult balancing exercise between what has to be done and what can be done. In my specific questions, one question concerns the possible sanctions. Mr Cogolati has already referred to the observation that Cyprus now seems to want to stop European sanctions. They're calling for some kind of study reservation. Can you confirm that there are effective problems in European decision-making regarding the possible sanctions that existed in establishing lists of persons involved in repression, including those who protested? Secondly, is economic sanctions envisaged? It has already been said that this is not the best solution, but is this idea being considered or not? As far as neighbouring countries are concerned, the Baltic States, in particular, are making their voices clear. Given history, that shouldn't surprise you either. But Poland has also set up its own project, together with the Visegrád countries. They have mainly made a number of economic proposals. There is, of course, a very specific situation in the Baltic States, with the presence of a significant Russian minority, particularly in Latvia and Lithuania. In Latvia it is about 40%, which can lead to direct confrontations. Should we stop here from involving the EU and NATO in the conflict, or do we give them our support? Have you taken note of the plans of the Visegrád countries? If so, what do you think? NATO is trying to avoid an escalation by not provoking exercises or troop relocations. However, is the situation still being discussed at a high political level so that the alliance would be ready if it were to escalate? The last point concerns the name, which Mr Cogolati has already mentioned. In the Dutch-speaking part of the country, Belarus is still the main subject of discussion, not so much Belarus. The Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now systematically talking about Belarus. Do you intend to do the same in your communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u6	Mrs Jadin would ask the following question, but she apologized. Afterwards, anyone who hasn't asked a question can join. We'll keep the order for now, and the next one's me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u7	Minister, we have already been briefed on the measures taken by the European Union at the European Council of 19 August 2020 in a joint committee on external relations and in the defence of the country. A triptych has been proposed: the failure to recognise the elections, the imposition of targeted sanctions and the pursuit of dialogue within the OSCE. The aim of this is not to turn it into a geopolitical conflict but rather to place the emphasis on democracy and respect for human rights. It is not about interference in an internal matter, but the international community has every interest in it. That is also what Mr Borrell stressed. It is not a geopolitical conflict, it is a question of democracy and the rule of law. This also applies to the population, when it defends respect for rights and freedoms, and responds to the excessive repression of the regime. It is very striking that the women take the lead in this. This is very new in the international context and clearly reflects the courage of these people. Meanwhile, a lot has changed and Russia's approach to Belarus is being seen. There has been a visit by several Russian ministers to Minsk. There's been an agreement. Six of the seven opposition leaders have been arrested and disappeared. The protests continue to increase and the OSCE dialogue mechanism is not accepted by the Lukashenko regime. Russia is also expressing its opposition to this. However, it was intended that Russia would also be put in that bath, because they are involved in the OSCE. In fact, the measures taken by the European Union at the end of August 2020 are being undermined. A new Foreign Affairs Council will take place next week. That's what my questions are about. What position will Belgium take? We are also in favour of stricter measures, as the situation is not improving in Belarus and there is a risk of escalation. There is an international call for an observation mission. Do we agree to this, apart from the OSCE? What initiatives will the European Union take to support civil society and the people and to support them, rather than look at them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my concern about the situation in Belarus: the flight of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, the opponent of President Lukashenko; the arrest of Maria Kolesnikova, who has the courage to remain on the territory; the arrest of other opponents; the repression that has not yet been mentioned, towards the press and journalists. At least 20 journalists have been arrested to date. A week ago, the Belarusian police acknowledged 633 arrests, a number of which were obviously unverifiable. It doesn't include acts of intimidation and torture. My colleague from the Socialist Party rightly described this country as the last dictatorship in Europe. I myself was able to realize this when I was a journalist in another life, Madam President, when I went to Belarus in 1995, in Minsk, in Gomel. I realized how bravely the people of this country are living with the daily restrictions of their freedoms. I believe that, in this context, the peaceful demonstrations are becoming more and more remarkable. The international community must support these demonstrations, or at least this democratic opposition, and must be on the side of the democratic values and values that the European Union stands for. We must also support this women's revolution, as you yourself have said. It is true that it is remarkable to see how decisive women are today in the opposition to Belarus, a peaceful role, as they claim. They absolutely do not want the situation to degenerate. The head of European diplomacy, Josep Borrell, reacted strongly. The United Nations and the United Nations also called for an investigation into allegations of torture. The UN Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, stated that, given the scale and number of allegations of torture and other forms of ill-treatment by the security forces, all allegations of torture and other forms of ill-treatment should be documented and investigated in order to bring the perpetrators to justice. The Human Rights Council itself called for an urgent debate. It's not common. This is only the sixth debate organized by this Council. Europe, for its part, advocates a gradual approach to sanctions. It is true that these sanctions should not be turned against the people of Belarus itself. I recall that the European Union does not recognise the results of the election and of course condemns repression. In this context, Minsk refuses any dialogue. That is the problem today. In the background, as my colleague Mr Cogolati said, there is, of course, Moscow's reaction. Today, what are Vladimir Putin's real intentions in case of violent opposition, has not hidden his intention to potentially send Russian troops to the site. This must of course be read in the light of Vladimir Putin's statement and his relations with Lukashenko. Minister, if I may, I have a few questions about you. To your knowledge, what are the latest developments in the situation in Russia today, because, in my view, this is where this could be done? Could you give us an update on the diplomatic relations between our two countries, Belarus and Belgium? Does Belgium, as such, have any levers to act in practice? Is a possible meeting with the Ambassador of Belarus in Belgium on the agenda and would it be relevant in this context in your opinion? Have you recently had or are you going to have any further discussions with your European colleagues on the subject in the near future? Finally, are new sanctions envisaged at European level after those of August? If so, how can we ensure that the people of Belarus do not suffer from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u9	Madam President, most of the Members here have expressed their concern about what is happening in our continent, Europe, in 2020. It is an authoritarian leader who clings to power, what he does by, among other things, making it difficult for the press and tackling protesters hard. I think that's a very sad story. The role of Russia, of course, makes this dossier much more complex, as some colleagues have said. Madam President, you referred to the dialogue within the OSCE. I am indeed asking myself about this, given the latest developments and the visits that have been made in the two directions. Minister, on behalf of my group I would like to ask the following questions. The European Council will take place on 24 and 25 September. Since I suspect that this issue will be discussed there, what position will our country take? I do not think that the sanctions announced have made much impression. Can you explain what we can expect in this context? Has our country already formally given its support to the opposition leaders who are fighting in a particularly courageous way there? If so, on which forum and in what way? Belgium is also a member of the UN Security Council. Is there any initiative in the UN Security Council on the human rights violations that appear to be taking place in Belarus? What are your views on the dialogue within the OSCE, given the rapprochement between Russia and Belarus in recent days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u10	Madam President, on behalf of our group, I too would like to express our deep concern and ask the Minister some questions. The previous history we have just heard extensively, so I will not go over it completely again. In any case, it is clear that human rights in Belarus are being trampled on, Mr Cogolati. Democracy, or what remains of it, is under very heavy pressure. Today is International Democracy Day, so it is good that we have put this on the agenda today. The people there demonstrate, manifest and enter the streets. As a reward, the protesters are beaten, kidnapped and deprived of their freedom. That really is an excessive repression, to the great surprise of everyone on our continent. The only thing these people ask for with their peaceful demonstrations is democracy, evolution in their country. President Lukashenko's regime is forcing them to revolutionize. I am concerned that, as a result of Russia's support, this could destabilise the whole region. Like the Ukrainian crisis, this will only widen the gap between the EU and Russia. Belarus is a candidate country for the Council of Europe. It therefore seems logical to us that it should immediately comply with international commitments and commitments in the areas of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Charles Michel, the President of the European Council, called on the Member States to take swift action on sanctions. We heard it earlier, but sanctions have not been very impressive so far. In addition, Cyprus and Greece are obstructing, because they only want to majority if there is also a more stringent approach from Turkey. We do not think it is the time to do such trade or deals. As far as I am concerned, the attitude of these two European Member States is very incomprehensible. Minister, what is our attitude? What is the Belgian Government's position on the position of Cyprus and Greece? As I said earlier, the sanctions have not been very impressive so far. What sanctions are envisaged? Are there new and better ones that might impress you? Because we are pro-cooperation, are we working on the possibility of dialogue between the Lukashenko regime and the opposition? Are we working on that dialogue? Are we trying to start some kind of mediation? What steps are we taking in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European countries have called these elections not free and not fair and have called for dialogue with the opposition, while calling for a halt to the violence against the demonstrators. Both the European Foreign Ministers on 14 August and the Heads of State and Government on 19 August met to discuss the response of the European Union to the situation in the country. On 14 August 2020, my services met with the Ambassador of Belarus in the Department of Foreign Affairs, referring to recent developments related to the presidential election on 9 August. My services have reiterated the Belgian position regarding the conduct of elections and the repression of demonstrations. They made it very clear that the various forms of intimidation and even persecution of opposition candidates during the pre-election and electoral campaigns deserved only criticism and that the absence of international observers during the election had been most regrettable. Moreover, the brutal behaviour of the police forces, the arrest of a large number of demonstrators and the ill-treatment, humiliation and intimidation – as well as degrading conditions of detention – to which all these people have been subjected are inadmissible and have no place on the European continent. Finally, my services also stated that Belgium was fully aware of the geopolitical dimension of the Belarus issue and Moscow's pressure on Minsk to accelerate and deepen integration with Russia, both bilaterally and within the Eurasian Economic Union. However, they added that this reality could not be used as an excuse or even as an element of blackmail to demand that the European Union and its Member States turn a blind eye to the flagrant violations of the freedoms and fundamental rights of Belarusian citizens. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 14 August, the Chief of European diplomacy, Josep Borrell, was responsible for preparing for the announcement of restrictive measures against those responsible for violent repression and electoral fraud. The European Council of 19 August gave the green light for the imposition of sanctions. The technical work on the introduction of restrictive measures, the identification of those responsible against whom sanctions will be imposed and the legal basis for the listing are under way. Is it appropriate to impose economic sanctions as well? No, Belgium is not in favour of economic sanctions because it is demanding respect for its democratic rights and freedoms for more than a month with admirable courage and despite the threat of violent repression. The past few days have shown that the younger generation of Belarusians has clearly gained political awareness. The links that the European Union and its Member States have made with the emerging civil society in recent years have certainly contributed to this, as have, of course, the development of social media. This social evolution must not be lost. As far as the near future is concerned, it is a matter of keeping pressure on the regime to avoid further bloodshed and to allow peaceful demonstrations to take place unhindered. The regime seems to have some ear for this. It has changed the shoulder in the sense that the vast majority of the protesters arrested have now been released and the peaceful demonstrations, strikes and other forms of protest can continue more or less unhindered. The repression and arrests are mainly directed against those identified by the regime as the organisers. There is broad agreement among the Member States of the European Union that the European Union should not surrender to geopolitical arm wrestling. European values and freedoms must serve as a compass for our commitment, which is not the same as interference in Belarus' internal affairs. Like our partners in the European Union, Belgium supports the independent investigations into the election results and the launch of a national dialogue with those in power, civil society and opposition. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which offered its services for mediation, and the Council of Europe are useful fora for this purpose. Having said that, the situation is becoming increasingly unpredictable. Under the impetus of Svetlana Tichanovskaya, the opposition set up a coordination council, consisting of some seventy representatives of opposition parties, trade union representatives and members of civil society, artists, writers, athletes, etc. The coordination council, led by a seven-member executive board, is in direct opposition to the President, who, once again, but this time selectively, acts repressively. The balancing exercise for the European Union is difficult. Insufficient support for the opposition damages our credibility, but the border with interference is thin, especially in Russia's eyes. It will be important to have Russia on board in the event of a scenario of a power transition, which is not currently the case. Belgium supports the proposal to have the current OSCE Chairman-in-Office and the incoming OSCE Chairman-in-Office jointly mediate in Belarus, but Russia, which has recently become more active towards Belarus, and Belarus itself does not give a positive signal about this offer of mediation. Our country also supports the establishment of the OSCE mechanism in Moscow, in which independent experts gather information on the manipulated ballot based on written questions to the current regime. The Belgian position with regard to the mediation proposal and the opening of the Moscow mechanism remains unchanged. Mrs von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, has already communicated about the financial aid that the Commission is about to grant to Belarus in response to the developments following the elections on 9 August: EUR 2 million for victims of repression, EUR 1 million for civil society and EUR 50 million for which discussions are continuing so that they do not fall into the scarlet of the current regime. In addition, the regime's narrative that civil society is supported and financed from outside should be avoided in a clumsy manner. That would be counterproductive, notwithstanding our good intentions. The European Commission also notes that the country could quickly need macroeconomic assistance, as its health system is on the brink of collapse and its economic situation continues to deteriorate as a result of the negative impact of the VOCID-19 pandemic on the global economy, which therefore also affects Belarus, and the political instability in which the country has fallen since the recent presidential elections. Before my colleagues and the European bodies, I will defend an approach aimed at preserving the Belarusian population from a further deterioration of the situation. A Council of Foreign Ministers will be held on Monday, 21 September. You will understand this: we will of course be side by side with the countries that will support stricter measures to move the lines, while maintaining the need for dialogue, so that the situation can finally return to our democratic foundations and values. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u12	Minister, thank you for your detailed and precise answer. I must express my regret, which does not concern you a priori. Given the involvement of the European Union, it would have been wise to benefit from the presence in this room – but it is true that it has not been here for a very long time – of Mr Geens, Minister for European Affairs. He would have been welcome to come with you, because I feel like you're taking a lot of things on you. No doubt it is in the image of your personality. However, at some point, the Minister for European Affairs must also be present and answer questions from parliamentarians. In general, through the latter, we could recall, as we have done on many occasions, that, in order for the European Union to teach a lesson in law and respect for human rights, it must itself be irreproachable in its conduct towards the application of human rights in its own Member States. I have heard colleagues talking about Poland as ardent human rights defenders. I'm surprised. I think that if Europe wants to be the voiceless and, in particular, those who are crushed by dictatorships, it must first clean up at home with regard to Polish excesses but also Hungarian excesses. Having said that, I come back to what you have formulated as a possible way of mediation and dialogue with Russia as a potential intermediary. I think that this path of solution that you're talking about is a sensible one. We all know that we cannot have irreproachable confidence in Russia. However, it remains true that he is a closely related interlocutor. My colleagues and I have reminded him. An attempt should be made to find a positive and comprehensive solution with Russia. I would also like to remind the OSCE and the Council of Europe that you mentioned very briefly when you mentioned the international organisations that could contribute to the solution. Indeed, the Council of Europe is 47 Member States. Its Parliamentary Assembly, its Secretary-General and the Chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe called for a solution through dialogue with the Belarusian authorities. There are two advantages to using the Council of Europe and involving it more closely in the peaceful, structural and democratically sustainable solution to be provided to the people of Belarus. Firstly, Belarus, even though it is not a member of the Council of Europe itself, has signed agreements between the Council of Europe and Belarus: with regard to the Venice Commission, which deals with respect for international law and human rights, GRECO (the Group of States against Corruption), a partial agreement on sport and European pharmacopoeia – it is more anecdotal at this level, but this means that there is a possibility of a dialogue through the Council of Europe. Secondly, in the Council of Europe, Russia is represented. I therefore call for this tool to be activated as much as possible. I have taken note of all your reactions, which seem to me to be measured and which are obviously the result of perfectly understandable prudence. Nevertheless, it is true that once again, the European Union is sinning by one of its shortcomings, which is that it has not cleaned up – at home – early enough and deep enough to be a relevant human rights interlocutor. On the other hand, we also see – as my colleague Cogolati has pointed out – that some countries block solutions or avenues for solutions in this area. He referred in particular to the case of Cyprus and the position the European Union should take vis-à-vis Turkey. I do regret to see the European Union build itself "à la carte". Of course, Belgium and you are not responsible for this choice, but I find that, in the face of the suffering we are witnessing in some countries, arrests, murders and pressure on resistors and civil society in Belarus, we are not providing a sufficiently concrete solution. Belarusian civil society is fighting for democracy and is asking only to join us in this concert of democratic nations. Once again, we offer it a solution that is only partial and visionary. Even though I am a fervent defender of the European Union, I think that Europe's reaction to this fight is extremely weak and cynical on the part of some, and I bitterly regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u13	Madam President, I thank the Minister for his clarification of Belgium's proactive positions in the European Union. Above all, I would like to thank colleagues. I confess that I was moved by the interventions of the various colleagues, regardless of the party. I have felt a genuine commitment to democracy and its values which form the common foundation of the European Union and which should also form our commitment alongside Belarusian civil society, which has once again risen so courageously in the streets for more than a month. This movement for democracy is admirable and forces respect. They are often women, as the chairman of this committee pointed out, and you are right! Last week, I received five representatives of the Belarusian opposition in the House. Five women! Lukashenko, in his small masculine carcan, thought naively that he could prevent any democratic transition by imprisoning and punishing men in particular. However, he did not foresee that the women would take over the torch. What we have seen for more than a month now is the women on the front who are leading this legitimate aspiration to free and transparent elections. It's admirable! Mr Minister, I would like to join you in saying in a fine way that it would be counterproductive to show too unilateral support from the West or the European Union for a camp. It is true that the challenge is not to set up one side against another, which is well understood when we hear the legitimate demands of Belarusian civil society. Their idea is not to join the West or NATO camp. Not at all! These people simply hope to live in independence and harmony alongside Russia and the European Union. At the same time, however, this movement for democracy is particularly fragile. And the more time passes, the more time it is. We realize that repression is particularly harsh and that this country is over-militarized. There are a staggering number of police officers on the streets today. It is therefore important - and it seems to me that as politicians, it is our role - to support civil society, which legitimately aspires to free and transparent elections, especially since our country is an old democracy. This can be done through very concrete things: support for independent media, which simply provide information – because we do not realize how difficult access to information is. The few contacts I have with the people on the spot take place via telegram. They change their phone number every day. It's very difficult to be with them. I also spoke to you about the United Nations Special Rapporteur: I was amazed to hear that she did not even have an assistant to produce her research. It is important that we Belgium, as well as other European countries, can support its mandate within the UN Human Rights Council, to make the truth and to investigate the abuses and serious human rights violations that are taking place on the ground. Mr Minister, thank you and my message is therefore to give Belarus a chance to decide for and for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u14	I thank the Minister for all his answers and also for his voluntarism in this matter, while knowing that our position is not easy, because we must first of all avoid being taxed by some interventionism in the conflict and the political tensions that are taking place in Belarus today. I would therefore like to thank you for your voluntarism, whether at the level of assessing electoral results, at the diplomatic level or at the level of macroeconomic aid that can be provided to the country and its economy, which is in dire need of it, especially since the health crisis. It is essential to be able to activate the European lever and implement the European sanctions, which must be targeted. They will really have to target those responsible for repression in order to avoid penalizing the population in its democratic aspirations, which are more than legitimate. This is fundamental, both for respect for democracy in Belarus and for the credibility of the European Union, which needs it more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u15	Minister, we cannot, and cannot, accept that Belarus should intimidate its people, especially those who are campaigning and opposition members, or that they should be imprisoned or tortured worse if they exercise their right to freedom of expression. I hope you will continue to raise this injustice with the competent authorities. The people of Belarus are longing for freedom and democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u16	Minister, you yourself indicated that you consider dialogue to be important. I agree. It will remain a difficult balance not to offend Russia, to avoid annexation. It is essential that the population is not the victim. It has suffered more than enough under the dictatorship. The most important thing remains stability in the region. We have to keep putting them first. I would also like to comment on what Mr Lacroix said. I can only endorse that: if the European Union wants to remain credible as a defender of human rights, it must also sweep it at its own door. Mr Lacroix, you referred to Poland and Hungary, but I think you forgot to include Spain in the list. We cannot be proud of what has happened in Catalonia as the European Union, which is a defender of human rights. In future, if you mention Poland and Hungary in one breath, I would appreciate it if you also mentioned Spain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u17	Minister, I see a clear evolution in your attitude and in your language, compared to the last committee we organised together with the Defence Committee. You are now saying that we must not let ourselves be blackmailed or intimidated, that you fit for a party of geopolitical arm wrestling and that democracy and freedoms are central. At the same time, you indicate that it is a very difficult balancing exercise. Of course, I'll follow you in that. However, there are a number of elements which make it necessary to move forward, not only as a European Union, but also within the framework of the OSCE mechanism, in which we have chosen to initiate the dialogue. If one of the partners does not want a dialogue, further steps must be taken, but without rushing. If I understand correctly, you mentioned Moscow-Mechanism in that connection.' In doing so, international observers may be sent on the spot and may conduct an international investigation. I think it is an important step which you will probably defend next week at the Council of Foreign Ministers. I do think that we should move forward and dare to take steps if another partner is not prepared to engage in dialogue without being brutal. That is why I believe that engaging Moscow-Mechanism is an important next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u18	Minister, thank you for your response and for your proactive response to a very sensitive issue. Our concern, following the denial of democracy in Belarus, is based on a double European observation: firstly, that of arranged elections and, secondly, that of indignation after the arrests of political opponents and journalists (men and women) tortured and intimidated while they demonstrate peacefully. In the wake of this movement brought about by women in Belarus, these men and women demonstrate for an aspiration which seems to us, in Belgium, entirely natural, but which there appears as a Grail, and which, in the language of women, is called zvaboda (freedom). The only answer to this peaceful dialogue is the brutal repression of a regime that is still under Moscow's support without any knowledge of its real intentions. Mr Minister, it is clear that economic sanctions cannot turn against the Belarusian people, but both President Lukashenko and his Russian counterpart must also understand that, in the concert of the United Nations, the European Union and the United Nations will stand alongside the sovereign people. For behind the names of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya and Maria Kolesnikova are the names of the millions of Belarusians who have lived for decades under repression and restriction of freedom. I sincerely believe that we cannot turn our backs on them. Dialogue, Minister, is essential. But Minsk or Moscow should not make it a dialogue of the deaf. Thank you and my group will be grateful to you for defending Belgium's strong position at the next European Foreign Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u19	Minister, in globo, like most colleagues, I can agree to your answer. On the one hand, on the issue of sanctions, I fully understand your view that citizens should not be affected. On the other hand, however, it must be clear to the regime that the time is now now that it is serious. That is a very difficult thing and a thin line, which has already been used in other positions, but which must be drawn and necessary. Of course, I understand your caution about Russia from a diplomatic point of view. Nevertheless, our hearts bleed when we see what is happening in Belarus. To sum up, I have the feeling that you have the support of Parliament to fight against the injustice that is taking place there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This is a very sensitive dossier, where dancing is on a weak cord. What has pleased me very much is to hear that the other Members are very angry about the repression following a simple question of democracy. The Members and yourself are very angry about that, which pleases us. I am also pleased that you say that you do not want to divide up and that we must be careful not to pour more oil on the fire by playing both camps against each other or by supporting one of the two camps too openly. You are quite right to add that dialogue is important. There are quite a few short fuses in that region. We must therefore continue to be vigilant and engage in dialogue. However, we must not allow ourselves to be paralysed by this either. I therefore agree with many colleagues that we must also show that we are serious. That is why we do not have to do anything right away. However, the time is right to show our claws.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u21	Mr Boukili, normally only the questioners are allowed to replicate. However, we are at the beginning of the season. That is why I give you the opportunity for a small reply but no longer for a question. After all, this is a topical debate and there are others on the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u22	Madam President, that is why I did not introduce the question. Indeed, in topical debates, if a question has not been tabled beforehand, one can speak once. So I chose to hear Mr. Minister first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u23	That's not how we function. You can always add a question, as other colleagues have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u24	I would have enjoyed it, Madam President, but I wanted to abide by the Rules of Procedure. Minister, thank you. As indicated, I wanted to hear you before I reacted. It must be noted that I agree with you on several points. I am pleased to hear you say that diplomatic and dialogue should be given priority. This seems to me to be crucial in these circumstances. Your collaborators may be surprised to hear me! In any case, the first victims of economic sanctions are the people. Priority should be given to avoiding further suffering for the people of Belarus. Our first concern must concern its independence, avoiding any interference by powers such as Russia and others. I am pleased to hear you indicate your wish for the complete independence of the Belarusian people by adding that you are going to take care of it. I would like to join you, Minister, in your desire to maintain dialogue and dialogue, instead of promoting sanctions that will mainly affect the Belarusian people – which we would like to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u25	Mr Mahdi, I give you the floor for your two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u26	Madam President, Minister, I have two questions on the agenda, but they do not have the same approach. I am glad to be able to ask you these questions today, so that I can bother you with other questions in the Committee on Defence tomorrow. This is a very important dossier. We all know how unstable the region of the Middle East is, with Lebanon in particular. We all know what Lebanon has been through in recent years. Anyone who looks at the flow of refugees who knew Lebanon knows enough. In our country, a few years ago, we had a strong debate on international resolutions with a very limited impact, especially in relation to what Lebanon has to endure. In Lebanon, extremist organisations are active and refugee flows have a huge impact on the country. In this context, the explosion in Lebanon bothered me even more than any other situation in any other country. I was pleased to see that the international community, particularly Greece, France and Germany, has reacted fairly quickly and ambitiously. Even from Belgium there was quite rapid communication, although it is a problem that no SAR-Team could be sent from Belgium to Lebanon, at least not in the form in which we knew it. I know we don't have the international license anymore. Minister, I am curious to hear your opinion on this. To what extent do you think we should work on this, given the current situation? It can have an impact in a country that is of particular importance to us. How soon after the Beirut explosion did we activate the B-FAST mechanism, expressed in hours? When was the first consultation on this matter with our European partners? We did not send a SAR-Team, but which and how much humanitarian and medical aid did we send to Lebanon? A C-130 was deployed. Were there any other additional aid mechanisms created after that? If so, which one? Over the past few years, our country has built up a certain international reputation that I believe we must maintain. What should we do in the future, partly in view of the current government negotiations, to ensure that we are playing the role that we have always played and which we may be hearing to play a little more in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u27	Mr Bertels is not here. I give the floor to Mr Moutquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u28	Minister, as you know, Lebanon was hit by a new disaster on August 4. Indeed, the explosion of 2,700 tons of ammonium nitrate damaged half of the city, putting 300 000 Beirutins on the street and causing the death of nearly 200 people, including two Belgian nationals. Lebanon has been living a real hell in recent years, particularly as a result of corruption and bad government decisions. The Lebanese population is plunged into increasingly worrying insecurity and is completely disconnected from the political world. Even though we know the complexity of the Lebanese political system, this disconnection is nevertheless proven. The Lebanese are furious and exhausted and the only weapon they have left is the resilience to the successive dramas that strike them. I have already asked you about the economic issue, in particular the position taken by Belgium at the CEDRE conference. Today I would like to ask you again the question in the light of the recent disaster. Has this conference met again? What position did Belgium stand for? Aid to the Lebanese Government is conditional on reforms. In view of the situation, could we not imagine directing such aid to civil society or to non-governmental organizations (NGOs), so that Lebanese could quickly have equipment? Since two of the victims were Belgian nationals, would Belgium request an international investigation into the causes and responsibilities of the disaster? This survey is requested by a large proportion of civil society, which no longer has confidence in its political class. You sent a B-FAST team to the scene but quickly had to face criticism. Some wonder, indeed, why this team was so small and why B-FAST personnel were not sent in reinforcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u29	The situation in Lebanon, a country that has been largely weakened in recent months, has worsened with the tragic disaster of that summer, in which 190 people have died, 6,500 have been injured and 300,000 have been homeless. I would like to say on my behalf and on behalf of my political group that we have a thought for the people of Lebanon and those people affected by this tragedy. The international community did not remain inactive in the face of this tragedy and Belgium, under your initiative, participated in the collective effort through the B-FAST intervention in response to the requests made by Lebanon. Minister, can you give us a full account of the aid sent by Belgium? With regard to the coordination of humanitarian assistance, you called for the establishment of a single central point to which disaster-stricken countries could formulate their needs. Should it be integrated into the European Emergency Response Coordination Centre? Should he come in extra? Have you had an opportunity to discuss with your European colleagues with a view to making concrete progress on this issue? As regards the possible international investigation into the causes that led to this explosion, what is Belgium's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u30	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the first images of the Beirut explosion came in, we all thought that we were watching some sort of virtual video, because it was crazy to say that this could happen in reality in a very densely populated city. It has, of course, also led to quite a few comments in Lebanon, because of course it has an important political aspect in it. The debate on this is not over, by the way. What is particularly important to us here is the way in which we can help in such circumstances and shape our international solidarity. The name B-FAST then falls quickly. It was said that B-FAST would act and then that there was no question of Lebanon. We have also received some confusing reports in the last week, as a result of the situation in Greece. It is an important aspect to know how we can effectively assist in this type of disaster in the future, and that is why I would like to ask you three questions. At the end of 2019, the government decided to stop the MUSAR module because it no longer complied with international guidelines. That is an element that has been involved in the decision on the aid we were able to provide in Beirut. Does the government wish to permanently divest this capacity of B-FAST? Or is it a provisional measure? Would you like to refocus B-FAST on other aspects of post-disaster humanitarian and medical services? Is it correct to look at the purchase of a state of the art level II modular field hospital for B-FAST? Is it intended to fill in a certain niche in that way? With reduced capacity and tools, what is the added value of sticking to B-FAST? Is there also an efficiency exercise to see whether the resources we make available for this can not be used more effectively, for example in a European context or in support of private organisations? Is that research being done?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u31	Minister, I thought I was not going to intervene, but I am encouraged by the latest interventions. First of all, as far as Lebanon is concerned, of course, my first thoughts go to the victims and our embassy staff. What is his situation today? I assume that requests have been made by Belgian-Lebanese families wishing to return temporarily to Belgium following the destruction of their homes. What procedures do these people have to follow to obtain a form of temporary visa and be accommodated for a short period of time in our country? Another point I wish to address concerns Lebanon itself. I assume that the question of Lebanon will be on the agenda of the next Foreign Affairs Council and the next European Council at the end of this month. It would be important to know how our country would position itself in relation to the voluntarism displayed by the President of the French Republic, who had made a rapid displacement in the country by adopting a very "imperial" attitude and explaining to the Lebanese people what to do. How will we position ourselves in the European Council in this respect? Are we going to follow France outright or rather try to rebalance the situation, with a view to respecting the Lebanese people? Finally, as far as B-FAST is concerned, I would like first of all to welcome the actions that have been taken. You must have acted with what has been left to you, and it must be noted that the B-FAST teams have seen their resources significantly reduced. The basic philosophy of B-FAST was to pool the resources available within civil protection, which no longer exists, as well as within the army, whose resources have also been seriously reduced. The aim was to consolidate the means to act quickly on a field of operation, at the request of local authorities and as required. A strategic mistake was made by sending people to Nepal. This led to an audit request. They concluded that the B-FAST was not the most efficient, since it was not designed for this either. In a way, this has resulted in the substitution of private agencies for a public tool to provide international assistance in the event of disasters. It was, of course, the opposite of the philosophy that had begun to be applied at the beginning of the nineties. Then we will have to rebuild the B-FAST, because we are witnessing increasing demands. We will have to provide it with resources, with field hospitals and emergency equipment, but this must be done in the form of a European mutualisation. The problem in the European Union is always the same: everyone wants to work together, but when everyone sees where their interest lies, one does not mutualise. Or, easier, we begin to add something new to the existing structures in the States, resulting in a lack of guarantee of effectiveness in response when a disaster occurs. I don't know how you see the future B-FAST, Mr. First... Minister. Forgive me! I just promoted you without knowing why – it must be a lapsus. In any case, what will be your attitude towards the B-FAST, given your experience of the Lebanese case? Can we redevelop it in a European strategy, not just for Lebanon? Believe me, there will still be disasters, and they usually occur during the holidays!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u32	Minister, as I said, everyone was shocked by what happened in Lebanon. The dust had not yet settled down or you and the Prime Minister tweeted that B-FAST would be sent. We were a little surprised because we were given the impression that a lot of help was promised that we can no longer live up to. As Mr Flahaut has just said, you may not be responsible for the undressing of our search and rescue team and you should row with the belts you have, but I had the impression that the reform that has happened was not taken into account. After all, the reform of civil protection has left B-FAST undressed for a great deal and today it no longer has international recognition. It has actually become a trained medical team which, in my view, has taken action too late in Lebanon. What surprised me, Mr De Roover, was that the same mistake was made about Moria once again: a medical team was promised a press release, but in the meantime that commitment was quietly withdrawn. You said that the Greek question had changed, but I find that bizarre, because in Moria there is a medical team from Norway working. I have the following questions, Minister. Were you or the Prime Minister not sufficiently informed? Is that the reason for that confusing communication? How did the decision-making process go and how was the timing set? What did the medical shipment look like? Finally, following on from Mr Mahdi's questions, what do you think is needed for this part of our army?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u33	Minister, a number of colleagues have already mentioned that Belgium has not sent an aid team. We have sent relief supplies and one is therefore no less necessary than the other, so that is something. I must say right away that we are most concerned at the moment about the import of necessary food products. One should not be einstein to think that if the port is destroyed, it will be very difficult to get the necessary food supplies. Moreover, the Minister for the Economy of Lebanon has already admitted that cereal reserves can feed the population for one month at a time. That's what he said in August, and it's now mid-September. How's that going? Do you have a visual on this? Apart from that, there are 300 000 homeless people in Lebanon. Those people have lost everything. The figures of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights are very clear. Fifty-five percent of the population lives below the poverty line. That is why I think it is very important that we now look at how we can meet the basic needs of people in the field of health care, including mental, education, housing, nutrition and so on. We have to look to the future. As we often say here, for a good future one must also know the past and dare to face it. This will only be possible if there is an impartial, independent and very transparent and thorough investigation into the causes of the explosion. It is more than whispered that it would be the result of years of maladministration, negligence and a lack of action. The Lebanese people really deserve answers. What's the progress on such an investigation? Are there plans? Has it been opened yet? Does the EU have a coordinated strategy to provide assistance in the context of reconstruction in Lebanon? What role can our country play in this? How is financial aid currently being distributed in Lebanon?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u34	If there are no other Members, I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our country has sent two C-130s with medical and humanitarian equipment to Beirut International Airport in Lebanon. On 8 August, medicines, sleeping bags, blankets and jerrycans were delivered. On 21 August, B-FAST delivered 7.5 tons of medical and humanitarian equipment from and to UNICEF, as well as a shipment of jerrycans from B-FAST. After Lebanon asked for international assistance to the European Aid Coordination Mechanism a few hours after the disaster, the Planning Committee and then the B-FAST Coordination Council were called together. As a second bilateral aid request was sent in the morning after the explosion, both had to be coordinated. On the night of 4 to 5 August, the first request for assistance was received, the second on 5 August at noon. The Planning Committee was convened at 1 p.m. on 5 August, after which the various partner departments needed a few hours to prepare a suitable offer. In the morning of 6 August, the partner departments had more clarity about the possibilities for assistance. The Coordination Council then took place at 10 a.m. on 6 August. Based on a technical analysis and some initial indications of the situation on the ground, as reported by our diplomatic post in Beirut, it was decided to propose the following relief supplies to Lebanon: medical materials, goods for the reception of victims, a medical team and a CBRN detection team. These four proposals were immediately delivered to the European coordination mechanism, in accordance with the procedure, which in turn passed on this offer to the Lebanese authorities. During the following nights, these authorities indicated that only the medical equipment and the medical goods were accepted. On this basis, the technical working group and the B-FAST secretariat further refined the offer, taking into account a transport with a C-130. Meanwhile, Mr De Croo was contacted by Unicef with the request to facilitate an urgent transport. Unicef's goods were replenished several days later with B-FAST material and delivered a second C-130 flight to the Lebanese authorities. Specifically, the following goods were delivered: an interagency emergency health kit, a supplementary unit, a surgical set, 8 000 jerrycans with the first flight and 10,400 jerrycans, 864 sleeping bags and 1,600 blankets with the second flight. The medical kits are packages prepared by WHO organisations and are intended to provide a normal care of 10,000 people for a period of three months. A strategic analysis of the FPS Home Affairs and B-FAST's partner department, which previously provided staff for the USAR teams in 2019, on the areas in which its capabilities can add value to international disaster assistance, has shown that it is difficult for Belgium to make a difference with USAR capacity today. Between 2016 and 2019, there were 72 requests for assistance from the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. None related to a USAR-type intervention. The resilience of countries around the world to this risk has developed extremely well. In addition, the European authorities have identified a need for a total of 8 USAR teams in the European Civil Protection Pool, while 32 USAR teams have already been proposed to it by different countries. As a result of these findings and without breaking down its operational potential at national level, it was decided to reorient Belgian civil protection capabilities that could be deployed abroad via B-FAST with other areas of intervention, notably the Flood Rescue Using Boats, which are more in line with the most common risks in Belgium and which are less present in other countries. The international context, the risks, the capacities and hence the needs of countries are evolving. It is therefore important that B-FAST and its departments permanently analyse their work area and direct their investments to these areas where they can achieve the most added value. Mr De Roover, I gave you an answer to your first question. Your second question raised the added value of B-FAST in the current international context. A distinction should be made between immediate disaster assistance and humanitarian aid. A country hit by a major disaster is most in need of immediate aid, but also longer-term aid. Both types of help have different needs and are organized in a different way. The first immediate assistance is often provided by states, as they can often draw on a very large range of specialised shifts and equipment and make them available quickly. Such capabilities do not currently exist in supranational and international organisations and can often not be offered in a similar way by the private sector. Consequently, this role is played by the State actors. Longer-term aid, however, is often offered by non-state actors. Belgium, like the other European Member States, is expected to be able to provide both types of aid. This is not only so that we can help in the context of solidarity, but also so that we can ask for the solidarity of other countries in cases of disaster. So this is the opposite direction. As a member of the European Union, Belgium is also a member of the Union Civil Protection Mechanism (UCPM). This mechanism allows Member States to count on solidarity from other countries in the event of major disaster with regard to intervention equipment and crews. Although the management of our risks is primarily our own priority, this is an important pillar in our own resilience. Belgium, like any other country, can be affected by a situation of such size or so rarely prevented that our own resources will not suffice. At that time, we will be able to count on the support of UCPM. Of course, the Member States expect Belgium to contribute to the functioning of the UCPM. As NATO is an important pillar in our security, UCPM is an important pillar in our resilience and preparation. In both cases, solidarity works in two directions and is therefore requested from Belgium. In addition, non-participation of existing Belgian capacity in such international systems would deprive our own intervention services of great opportunities to participate in European training and exercise, to acquire expertise from other countries and to acquire specialised intervention materials with European support. B-FAST is therefore not only for other countries, but also for ourselves. Although the role of B-FAST sometimes needs to be explained, this is not comparable to when it should be explained to the public why Belgium cannot count on solidarity from other countries and why our intervention services have not been able to use the resources and expertise within the UCPM. More information on this can be found in my colleague, the Minister of the Interior. Mr De Roover also asked about the usefulness of medical teams. Well, B-FAST's field hospital has been deployed several times during disasters. The field hospital module consists primarily of a medical team, consisting of specialised doctors and nurses. Those volunteers are provided by the Health Department. In addition, the module also consists of tents for the operating quarter, the clinic, aftercare for patients and for logistics use. You can read that on our website. In 2013, the WHO published new guidelines and standards to be met by a field hospital and new names were also formulated. The existing concept corresponds to the EMT-2. For the operationalisation of the EMT-2 for B-FAST with the possibility of closing the registration of that module in the ECPP, the European Commission allocated an adaptation ground at the end of 2017. The expected result of that project is the development of a WHO-specialised and self-sufficient EMT-2 that has the appropriate training, facilities and quality of care for 100 outpatients daily, 24 hospitalised patients and 15 small and 7 major surgical interventions. The European Commission's committed financial resources will be used for the equipment of the field hospital and for the training of the team, including the tabletop exercise developed and adapted to the setting of the Emergency Medical Team type 2. The European Commission and the WHO have identified this development of the tabletop as a best practice and this was proposed at the WHO's EMT global meeting in Bangkok last year. The certification process is conducted under the guidance of two WHO EMT secretariat mentors with the various partner departments and with the support of the Advisory Board and the advisory bodies within the FPS Public Health. More information about these modules can be found at my colleague from Health. Finally, my services at Defence, which also contribute to the B-FAST structure, wish to point out that there is just more capacity available within B-FAST than before. Through efficient and flexible stock management and procurement policies, last year humanitarian goods and goods providing assistance to the on-site emergency services were sent to four disaster areas across three different continents. Whether it is generators in Bolivia that help the firefighters to put out forest fires in the Amazon region, to shelter displaced persons in Albania or to provide medical supplies for the victims of the well-known disaster in Beirut, each time our country has managed to quickly and efficiently send the necessary and requested material from the affected country. So, Mr De Roover, you can see that B-FAST is and remains a successful story of cooperation between federal institutions in saving lives abroad. Mr Mahdi, only the USAR team, one of the different modules of B-FAST, does indeed no longer have an international INSARAG classification. B-FAST can of course send out other modules. On 9 August 2020, President Macron organized a donor conference in cooperation with the UN in which Belgium participated through me. I announced that my cooperation colleague, Minister De Croo, had decided to allocate an additional €6 million in humanitarian aid to Lebanon, as follows: €1 million to the International Committee of the Red Cross, €2.5 million to the World Food Programme (WFP), €2.5 million to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) to feed the Country Based Pooled Fund (CBPF) of Lebanon. These allocations are still to be submitted for approval to the Council of Ministers and will bring the total Belgian humanitarian contributions to Lebanon to EUR 9.5 million by 2020. This year, the World Food Programme and OCHA have already received €1.5 million and €2 million respectively. Belgium also indirectly contributes to the humanitarian response in Lebanon through contributions to various flexible funds. There is the Disaster Relief Emergency Fund (DREF) of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, which released 0.75 million Swiss francs after the disaster, the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) which allocated $6 million to Lebanon, and the FAO Special Fund for Emergency and Rehabilitation Activities (SFERA) through a €250,000 project entitled "Emergency Support for the Livelihoods of Small Vulnerable Farmers Affected by the Financial and Economic Crisis in Lebanon". Belgium also contributes to the humanitarian response through voluntary non-earmarked contributions to international humanitarian organizations, such as OCHA, ICRC, UNHCR, WFP and UNRRA. Finally, I will also submit to the Council of Ministers a proposal for support via the financial instrument for exports FINEXPO which would allow the Belgian company VIGAN to supply three cranes to the port of Beirut with a view to restarting the vital import of cereals as soon as possible. This is a €700,000 project with a "gift" component of 100%. You are right to stress the risks of corruption and the need for concrete measures to limit them. On 27 August 2020, Lebanon launched a platform for coordination of needs and assistance. Any assistance must be registered through this online system. These measures also apply to private governmental organizations. The coordination itself is carried out by Beirut Forward Emergency Room, in which the Lebanese Army, the Red Cross, voluntary private consultants and government agencies have representatives. This donor coordination platform has been set up with the assistance of the British Government to better identify and coordinate the needs of the aid offered. Emphasis was placed on the fact that the new system would be fully transparent. In my opinion, the European Response Coordination Centre, where the Home Office is the contact point for Belgium, should play an even more coordinating role. Within a European context, it seems inevitable to me to move towards coordination where the European level keeps an overview of what is available in the different Member States. In this way, the various European resources can be used in the most efficient way. On the subject of the CEDRE Conference, the Economic Conference for Development through Reforms and with Business, I do not have information on a forthcoming meeting. Belgium continues to fully support the European Union's action on Lebanon. This support from the European Union must go hand in hand with efforts on the Lebanese side to undertake necessary socio-economic structural reforms, as foreseen by the joint declaration of the CEDRE Conference held on 6 April 2018 in Paris. In this context, the fight against corruption and the promotion of good governance are also of major importance, as stressed by the Lebanese Government itself. These are elements that I was also able to discuss with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Lebanon during my visit to Lebanon last February. Finally, I share your demand that the causes and responsibilities of the explosion be given greater clarity. That is why, on 10 August, in a briefing to the United Nations Security Council on the humanitarian situation in Beirut, Belgium called for an independent and credible investigation. We also supported the statements made by High Representative Josep Borrell in this regard. Mr Flahaut, you asked more specific questions about the possibility of Lebanese coming to Belgium. Indeed, there is no particular procedure, but there is, of course, benevolent attention depending on the circumstances involved in coming to restore health in the country. You are also asking the question about the current staff. That same night, I was in contact with our ambassador. We had a total of four light injuries to regret. Fortunately, there is no longer any problem with this. As far as our buildings are concerned, you know we're tenants. The breath of the explosion initially made our buildings non-operational, but our computer system remained fully operational. Since then, measures have been taken knowing that we are in a context of landlord to tenant. I have already answered, but I can summarize in a few words my view of what B-FAST could be and what those negotiating could perhaps include in their negotiating memorandum. When you come to the aid of a country that is suffering a disaster, it is not about being the first in the class to be the first in the class. We need to be the most effective collectively. We have capacities and expertise in Europe that add to each other. Rather than come sometimes with help that would not be necessary but that would please the ego of the country sending it, I think it is much more useful to have a single point of contact for the country suffering the disaster to report on its needs. Very quickly, as we have seen in various crises, we can now meet with technology in ten minutes, wherever we are in the world, and look very quickly at the capacity of countries to mobilize their assistance and ensure that it is effective. What is often forgotten is that, of course, there is demand for and provision of the various means of aid. Belgium will never be left out of generosity in this area. But here we must also think of those who must coordinate the arrival of this aid. The key words are efficiency, speed, but also coordination with regard to both requests and the organisation of these requests, as well as coordination on the spot, in order to avoid that, again, the countries receiving this aid are finally overwhelmed by too much goodwill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u36	Minister, it is a new parliamentary year, but a number of habits seem to persist, namely the Minister who always gives a very detailed answer to our questions, for which I would like to thank you once again. I am also pleased, I knew a little bit already that you have responded very quickly. It is a good thing that you are doing it again and making it clear that there was a rapid response, because some people were critical of it. It has now been shown once again that there has been a fairly rapid response, with the resources available. I share your analysis that we should not be the first in the classroom to be the first in the classroom, but I sometimes wonder if we can be with Europe on time. This is not always efficient, and there is still some work to be done to optimise cooperation at European level. Apart from the cooperation that can and should exist at European level, I do not think that we can always wait for it. We have to look at this, too, and I share your opinion on how we should do it: not every country should provide aid to the country in need in exactly the same way. That does not have to be the same for me as the Czech Republic, Greece, France and Germany did right away. We have other knowledge and expertise that can be used at least as much, but I continue to stress that, apart from cooperation at European level, our country can certainly provide an additional incentive or push. It is important that you have stressed that we at European level provide a number of resources that are not the least. As far as I am concerned, I would like you to stress this a little more in order to make it clear that international, European cooperation is so necessary. These moments usually also show why they are. The last thing I would like to add is that I hope that in the coming days and weeks there will not only be direct contact between Europe and Lebanon, but also between Belgium and Lebanon. We have a very important role to play in Lebanon, and our soldiers have always played a very important role in Lebanon in the past, for example the mine-mines that have done a huge amount of work there. Our military were also eager to take action and do something for Lebanon, to do what they once joined the Defense Department. I can only hope that we will continue to maintain our contacts, because I continue to stress that Lebanon is, perhaps even more than ever before, a huge explosive cocktail and that its impact on our country can be much faster than we can imagine. Let us bear that in mind, and I hope that we will be able to prevent the worst, not just for us but primarily for the Lebanese themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u37	Minister, thank you very much for your answers, which, as often, are very comprehensive. I am pleased with your response to your request for an independent investigation. I think that's great news. I will always support you in this process. I fully understand that we must avoid this race to the first student. Indeed, aid, whether material or human, must be coordinated. After that, we have the right to question the coordination capacity of a government that has left 2,700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate for years outdoors in a harbour. So it is always the debate between not being in paternalistic, colonialist interference with such a country, and at the same time being able to provide rapid material assistance to the Lebanese people. I think that is where we need to find a balance. On the other hand, I fully agree with you on the need to coordinate this. I heard my colleague from Open Vld. I totally agree with her. Now, let's move on! We need to move on. However, I am concerned about two main issues. The first is reconstruction. We know that many Lebanese are now speaking out to protect the heart of the Lebanese capital, Beirut, and to protect its soul. We are concerned about how major international real estate developers are already on the lookout for major contracts. I think that here, too, we will have to be able to defend an intelligent vision of reconstruction, which respects the Beirutins. Besides, I didn't want to talk about it today, but I can tell you that the announcement by Mrs De Block, your colleague, on the reception of the 12 children of Moria allows me to mention it today. Lebanon, with a population of 3 million, is home to 1.3 million refugees. There, I am thinking of Syrian refugees, but also of Palestinian refugees and their descendants. I believe that moving forward may also mean taking on its responsibilities as a European Union and realizing that Lebanon can no longer accommodate, in a region of the world that is unstable, can no longer bear such an important weight in the conflicts of its neighbouring countries. I think that we will also have to provide an answer in this area. This is a structural solidarity that we owe to the Lebanese people!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u38	I thank the minister for his extremely precise and well-explained answer. Mr Minister, in the face of the tragedy in Lebanon, by reacting quickly on 8 and 21 August, Belgium, under your leadership and that of your services, has finally demonstrated its solidarity, but also its credibility in the concert of the Nations. Even if it is now a fact: European aid as a whole and its coordination will have to be even more optimal in the future. You have detailed it: the Belgian contribution to Lebanon amounts to EUR 9.5 million. Mr Minister, as you have done so far, I call on you to remain vigilant of the Lebanese authorities' requests for future aid, whether bilaterally or multilaterally through the European Union. I am also pleased that you strongly and unambiguously support the request for an independent investigation that should be carried out to determine the responsibilities in this horrific tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. Mr Mahdi said that we have a new year of work and that he is pleased that the tradition continues. Not every minister is so extensive and to the point in his answer. I would therefore like to thank you for the excellent example. Your answer provides a lot of information that we can continue to work with in Parliament. Just now, one of our colleagues used the term confusing communication. He's been there, all right. You say that we must ensure that we show solidarity, partly because this can work in two directions. There's no question about that. Of course, we must be careful not to give the impression that the means we use do not cause us to stand in front of a closed door all too often. That impression has sometimes been aroused this summer, whether or not it is justified. Because resources are limited as always, they should also be used as effectively as possible. In your reply, I have heard the word efficiency on a regular basis. That is certainly a basis on which we can continue to work. After all, our principles are the same in this respect. The fact that we do not always have to be the first is self-evident. That would be a competition that consumes a lot of energy rather than helping the population. That is why international division of labour is of the utmost importance. But that also means that communication should not give the impression that it is intended to be the first. We are aiming at a different way of helping, and so we must not give the impression that B-FAST is an instrument that is ready to leave, but does not leave. Then one has to explain again why it didn't leave. I believe that the subject will certainly be dealt with here in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer, which shows that, contrary to what we perceived, we have done a lot. The concern is not to be the first, the concern is to be effective. As the European machine is very heavy to start, it sometimes takes a small engine. Belgium, with its B-FAST, can be this small engine for starting solidarity actions at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u41	Minister, you have given a very long and detailed answer. However, it is not because your answer contains a lot of information that I was fully convinced. The response was fast on Twitter but not on the premises. It is possible to discuss whether we should be the first. However, it is about the kind of assistance that is being provided. In the case where we have supplied goods, I can live with the argument that we were not the first and that we have listened in particular to Lebanon's demand. But we have to be honest, too. We simply do not have the means to provide certain aid that was needed very quickly. We don't have a SAR team anymore, like we used to. We must therefore take advantage of these matters to reflect on the future of B-FAST. Some call it an empty box. I certainly wouldn't go that far. It is clear, however, that there is a need for some reflection on how our country intends to deal with such matters in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I am pleased to hear that, in your opinion, Belgium has reacted quickly and efficiently, even without the aid team, which has received so much comment. It is clear that the beauty prize for communication about it was not won at the time. More importantly, however, there was cooperation between different countries and it was an expertise puzzle to determine who could best offer what type of assistance. I'm glad to hear that. I am also pleased to hear that Belgium very much supports the demand for a very thorough and independent international research. The people of Lebanon have a right to do so, in any case, to ensure that they can build a future again and also to ensure that such a thing can never happen again. It has a particular right to ensure that it can gain confidence in the government, its leaders and in the international community. That is what we must stand for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u43	In this way we can conclude the topical debate on Lebanon and move on to the joint questions on the North Pole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u44	Following an accident on a pipeline on July 12 in the Norilsk region of Russia, aviation fuel (kerosene) was spilled into the wild. As a result, no radioactive substances were released. In compensation for the environmental damage caused by the May accident, the Russian environmental authorities imposed a record fine of 148.2 billion rubles on Norilsk Nickel. The 2016 European Council conclusions on the Arctic pay particular attention to the protection of the Arctic environment. Within the Arctic Council, the European Member States that are members of the Arctic Council call for special attention to be paid to the protection of this fragile ecosystem. A public consultation is currently under way to update the European Union's integrated approach to the Arctic, taking into account, inter alia, the European Union's ambitions under the Green Deal for Europe. Within the framework of the European Union's Northern Dimension Environmental Partnership, it also supports the clean-up of the nuclear legacy of the former Soviet Union in the Arctic. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), in the context of its tasks under its statutes, has established safety standards for the protection of the environment from radioactive releases to the environment, whether controlled or not. These safety standards serve as a global reference for the prevention of radioactive leakage, the limitation of its consequences on the environment and human health and the rehabilitation of the areas concerned. These standards are also mandatory for all IAEA projects in the context of assistance to States. Russian and Chinese interests in the Far North differ in their scope and nature. For Russia, the Arctic is part of its sphere of influence and constitutes an important strategic military zone as well as an area of natural resources. For China, on the other hand, economic interests are clearly taking the lead today. Beijing has more economic and technological resources than Moscow and the gap is widening. Both countries also differ in their approach to governance. Russia is a status quo power in the Far North, while China is seeking to open up the region for global investment. The Arctic Council has a reputation for making progress in the areas of environment, ecology and cultural preservation, thanks to its ability to isolate itself from the political divisions among its members. However, tensions have increased over the past two years due to divergent approaches to issues such as global warming and Arctic resource jurisdiction. The EU's comprehensive foreign and security policy strategy points out that the European Union has a strategic interest in the Arctic, which remains a region with low tensions, benefiting from ongoing cooperation by the Arctic Council, an effective legal framework and strong cooperation on political and security issues. Belgium supports this approach. Currently, a seat for the European Union as an observer in the Arctic Council is facing a Russian blockade, but in practice the European Union can participate as a de facto observer. Belgium supports the European Union's integrated Arctic policy defined in 2016 and welcomes the fact that, in its conclusions of 9 December 2019, the Council invited the High Representative and the Commission to initiate a process to update this policy, taking into account the new challenges and opportunities in the region. Our country has significant scientific expertise linked to its history in Antarctica and can share this expertise, through bilateral cooperation with other EU Member States that are also members of the Arctic Council, such as Sweden, Finland and Denmark, as well as with partners such as Norway and Iceland, or through regional cooperation – for example, the Benelux-Northern consultations. NATO does not have a strategy for the Arctic region, but the Alliance is closely following developments in this region, in relation to Euro-Atlantic security, including freedom of navigation. At present, there has been no unanimity among the allies. Only some of them are convinced of the value of NATO's greater involvement in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u46	Minister, I have heard your response to the Arctic. I have the impression that the European Union underestimates the issues involved. That is why I invite you to follow this issue as closely as possible, which, in my view, will become one of the major geopolitical and geostrategic challenges. These issues are strongly highlighted by Canada, which is our ally in NATO. Moreover, I also hear the American speech – and, as you (but you may say less openly) I am not a supporter of President Trump and his administration – who is concerned about the ambitions of the People's Republic of China as well as the Russian influence – about which I have not heard you. Perhaps I will come back to ask you more specifically about this, so that my colleagues can ask their questions calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u47	Mr Cogolati, on 12 and 15 July 2020, broke out clashes between Armenia and Azerbaijan, along the international border between the two countries at the level of the localities of Tovuz and Tavush, well north of the contact line around Nagorny Karabakh. Both countries reject each other's responsibility for the outbreak of such hostilities. According to Armenia, the Azeri armed forces attempted to violate the international border while Azerbaijan accused Armenia of attempting to enter its territory. Since the establishment of a ceasefire in Haut-Karabagh in 1994, the OSCE Minsk Group, co-chaired by France, the United States and Russia, has been in charge of mediation between the belligerent parties and is working towards a peaceful and lasting resolution of the conflict. Recent developments were discussed at the OSCE Permanent Council on 16 July 2020. The Secretary-General of the OSCE expressed his concerns and called for de-escalation. In addition, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has also called through his spokesperson for de-escalation and for limiting inflammatory statements. It also reiterated its support for a negotiated and lasting peaceful solution to the Nagorny Karabakh conflict. The numerous calls for restraint, including that of High Representative Josep Borrell on behalf of the Twenty-Seven, have finally borne fruit: hostilities around Tovuz-Tavush have almost ceased and the Minsk group has taken over again. As a reminder, our country does not recognize the self-proclaimed Artsakh Republic in Nagorny Karabakh. Belgium supports a negotiated solution to the conflict in accordance with the parameters defined by the international community and, first and foremost, the resolutions adopted by the United Nations Security Council on the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over Nagorny Karabakh (822-853-874-884 dated 1993). These resolutions aim not only at a cessation of hostilities and a negotiated solution to the conflict, but also, generally less known to the public, at the withdrawal of Armenian military forces from the seven Azeri provinces and bordering Nagorny Karabakh, occupied since 1994. As for the Azerbaijani population of these provinces, at the time it fled from the advance of Armenian forces and has lived for more than 25 years as a refugee in other parts of Azerbaijan. It is important to mention that Armenia is a member of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, a politico-military organization led by Russia and China. Azerbaijan has a very active military cooperation agreement with Turkey. Through the partnership for peace launched in 1994, NATO maintains relations with both Armenia and Azerbaijan, but refrains from any direct involvement in the process of peaceful resolution of the Nagorny Karabakh conflict and, for the most part, from any military involvement. By way of summary, I recall that Belgium, both bilaterally and internationally, inter alia, at the United Nations, OSCE and European Union level, continues to call on the Armenian and Azeri parties to hold back and support the mediation efforts of the Minsk Group and the OSCE for a peaceful resolution of the conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u48	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u49	I know of course that the Turkish boat has finally returned, but my questions about international law and the status of the different areas in the Aegean and off the Greek islands still stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u50	Minister, in mid-August, a Turkish research vessel began with pilot drillings south of the Greek island of Kastellorizo. That led to an incident between the Turkish and the Greek Navy. It is not the first time that Turkey has carried out illegal pilot drilling in European territorial waters. In the past, Turkey has already come into conflict with the controversial gas drilling in Cyprus. It was therefore feared that the situation could get out of hand and lead to an international conflict. In the meantime, NATO and the European Union have already offered mediation, but in order to give this dialogue a chance, Turkey must first stop unilateral drilling. If this does not happen, it is reported that European leaders will discuss a list of sanctions against Turkey at a special summit on 24 September. Minister, what is the government's position on this Turkish aggression? Have you been in contact with your European colleagues on this matter? What was the result of that? Have NATO and the European Union been mediated yet? Will the EU, as in the case of the disputed gas drilling in Cyprus, impose sanctions again if Turkey does not stop illegal activities and provocations? If so, what sanctions can be envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to give a clear and complete answer to your questions, let me first of all make a clear distinction between the cases of Cyprus and Greece. Turkish gas exploration and drilling activities in the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus are older and result, on the one hand, from overlapping maritime claims by both parties and, on the other hand, from Turkey's non-recognition of the Republic of Cyprus. The latter recognizes only the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, whereas the European Union and the rest of the international community recognize only the Republic of Cyprus and regard the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus as a secessionist entity. The European Union believes that Turkish activities are illegal under international law. It therefore adopted, at the end of 2019, a framework of sanctions against Turkey. I would point out that this framework is limited to Turkey's activities around Cyprus and does not cover the more recent activities in the maritime areas claimed by Greece. Two Turkish citizens are currently subject to sanctions. New listings are under consideration. This summer's tensions with Greece relate to the gas exploration activities carried out by Turkey in the exclusive economic zone generated by the Greek authorities by the small island of Kastellórizo, the most easterly Greek island. I would point out that these are seismic and not drilling activities, as in Cyprus. In addition, this area is claimed by Turkey as part of its continental shelf and exclusive economic zone. Turkey is therefore mainly accused of its belligerent attitude because of the aggressive rhetoric of its authorities against Greece and the military escort granted to the Turkish exploration vessel operating in the area – in total, a fleet of about ten civilian and military ships. However, I would point out that the Turkish exploration ship Oruç Reis left the Kastellórizo area this weekend. The European Union and Belgium have shown their solidarity with Greece, without, however, deciding on the question of the demarcation of exclusive economic zones. According to the Law of the Sea, the demarcation of maritime borders such as exclusive economic zones between two states in the event of overlapping claims should be the subject of bilateral negotiations. In the event of a failure of bilateral negotiations, the possibility to refer the dispute to an international jurisdiction, such as the International Court of Justice in The Hague or the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea in Hamburg, or to opt for arbitration proceedings remains. The final element I would like to address is the agreement signed by Turkey and the Libyan Government in Tripoli at the end of 2019 on the demarcation of their exclusive economic zones. This agreement is contrary to international law, in that it completely ignores the right of large Greek islands such as Crete and Rhodes and several other islands of the Dodecanese archipelago on their own exclusive economic zones. In any event, the text of the agreement cannot be opposed to third countries, in particular Greece. However, it should be noted that until now Turkey has not carried out any exploration or drilling operations in this area. As soon as I address you, the Turkish seismic exploration vessel Oruç has left the waters around Kastellorizo towards Antalya, which may be an opportunity to restart the technical discussions between Greece and Turkey. The drilling activities off the coast of Cyprus continue in two different places, one to the east of Cyprus and the other to the west of the island. The Council has considered this issue three times in different formats this summer and the subject has once again been on this month's agenda, in particular at the extraordinary European Council to be held on 24 and 25 September. Each time, the European Union clearly expressed its solidarity with Greece and Cyprus and called on Turkey to de-escalate and dialogue. The European Union also expressed its readiness to consider further sanctions should Turkey not change its attitude. In these discussions at European level, Belgium advocated firmness with regard to Turkey, while stressing the importance of resuming dialogue. In this context, we fully support the efforts undertaken by Germany and the High Representative, Josep Borrell, to bring the two parties back to the negotiating table. On the issue of sanctions, we are ready to consider further listings under the existing sanctions regime for Cyprus. The important thing for Belgium is that these sanctions are targeted, reversible and above all that they push Turkey to change its policy. Sanctions should not be such as to contribute to escalation. With regard to Turkish activities in the exclusive economic zone claimed by Greece, Belgium is prepared to consider sanctions should Turkey continue its provocative actions and cannon-boat policy. Such sanctions are, however, premature at this stage because Turkish activities have so far been limited to exploration and not drilling operations, as I said earlier, in a disputed maritime area and it is important to give a chance to a process of dialogue between Greece and Turkey, on the one hand, and between the European Union and Turkey, on the other. Should the two parties not reach an agreement, we would encourage them to submit their dispute to arbitration in an international forum. Finally, both Turkey, Greece and Cyprus often, in cooperation with France, Italy, Israel and/or Egypt, in changing formations, strengthen their positions by organising frequent military exercises in and around the disputed maritime zones. The rising tensions in the eastern Mediterranean and the lack of dialogue between Athens and Turkey have encouraged NATO Secretary Stoltenberg to work with both allies to develop a de-escalation organism to reduce the risk of military derailment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u52	Minister, thank you for your call for caution and de-escalation on this particularly sensitive issue. I recall your reference to the treatment and use of international arbitration. Beyond the political dialogue, we are talking about the division of a disputed maritime area and the use of a legal body recognised both by Greece and by Cyprus and the European Union could provide a way of resolving this non-recent conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u53	Madam President, Minister, whether we are talking about illegal gas drilling in European territorial waters, the permanent occupation of Cyprus, the repeated political mobilisation of the Turkish diaspora in Europe or the lack of cooperation in the fight against illegal migration, Turkey has not missed an opportunity and has not missed a chance to show that it is not a partner but, on the contrary, an increasing problem. As well as expressing solidarity with Greece, Europe must also make it clear at the forthcoming European summit that it will not continue to give in to the permanent Turkish blackmail policy and will not continue to watch for successive provocations. If Turkey continues its policy, severe sanctions must be put on the table for Flemish Interest, from the termination of the existing customs union on the introduction of penalty tolls on Turkish products and the suspension of the issuing of visas for travel from Turkey to the cancellation of all financial support and privileged relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u54	Minister, we have already discussed difficult balancing exercises today, and the relationship between the European Union and Turkey is one of the most difficult balancing exercises, because blackmail is indeed possible. We all know that the elephant in the room concerns migrants who can be sent to the European Union. That is why this balancing exercise is difficult and blackmail is always possible. That is why it is important that we continue our dialogue with Turkey. However, if Turkey continues to persist in anger, we must apply a stepped-up system. When it comes to the Cyprus conflict, I welcome the fact that there could be targeted sanctions against those responsible for these illegal drilling activities. In this way it is made clear that it is serious when it comes to matters which are unacceptable under international law. With regard to the relationship between Greece and Turkey, it is good that NATO is starting to play a role and initiate de-escalation mechanisms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u55	Madam President, Minister, I have already had the opportunity to question you about the serious human rights violations of the Uighur minority in the Xinjiang province of China. The French daily Libération even spoke of genocide. The United States has established a blacklist of companies and officials involved in violations of Uighur minority rights. There was also talk of European sanctions against these crimes in China. Have they been decided by the European Council of Foreign Affairs? Could the federal government investigate the existence of organ transfers of Uighur prisoners in China to Belgium? It seems to me that the question is important. One of the three bills discussed concerned the Santiago de Compostela Convention on organ trafficking. This struggle is necessary. Furthermore, it seems to me important that all transparency be made for the Belgian population and that we know whether or not transfers of organs of Uighurs prisoners in China are made to Belgium. Finally, contrary to the information relayed by the Chinese authorities, we are still awaiting news of the wife and children of Ablimit Tursun who are well detained in Xinjiang and deprived of contact with their husband and father who is a refugee in Ghent. How are our efforts to give them their visas as soon as possible so that they can be released and rejoin our country? I know I've asked you a lot about this, but it's important not to give up and this family in distress is not forgotten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u56	Madam President, Minister, Belgium is particularly attentive to the human rights situation in the world; you have repeated it to us again at the last meeting of the Committee on External Relations, and we are proud of it. It is with regret that I must return to you regarding the situation of the Uighur minority in China, as its situation remains dramatic. This summer, untenable images, already shared earlier on the Internet, were broadcast on British television. On these, attached prisoners, blindfolded and shaved skull, are seated in rows before being taken to trains. Minister, can you tell us whether, since our last discussions on the subject, further discussions on this situation have taken place at the international level? Has the situation of the Uighurs been put on the agenda of a European Foreign Affairs Council or is it expected that this will be the case in the near future? Throughout the world, many voices are raised to hold the brands of their production chains accountable. The aim would be to punish those who resort to forced workers, particularly Uighurs. What is your position with respect to such a request? Is this possible in your opinion? If so, could this be put on the agenda of a future Council of the European Union? Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, like my colleague Samuel Cogolati, whether you have news of the family of Ablimit Tursun, a refugee in Belgium, from the Uighur minority. Could contact have been re-established with her? Do we know his living conditions? Are humanitarian efforts still being made towards her?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u57	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, organ removals, forced sterilization, internment in appalling conditions, abuses, the situation of the Uighur minority in China is particularly worrying. It was in this capacity that I interviewed you last July in particular. In the meantime, I have also taken the initiative with several of my colleagues in the PS Group to table a resolution which, among other things, calls on the government, within the European Union, to advocate for strong action against the Chinese authorities, including the possibility of sanctions, if these violations of the rights of ethno-religious minorities do not cease immediately. Therefore, in the light of your previous replies and developments, could you please indicate, Mr. Minister, whether our country has taken new initiatives bilaterally, Europeanly or multilaterally to address the issue of respect for human rights, especially of ethno-religious minorities, with the Chinese authorities and to condemn, in any event, as firmly as possible all potential violations of the rights of ethno-religious minorities in that country? To be clear, the application of sanctions would obviously be the failure of the diplomatic channel itself. In other words, it would sign the fact that we have failed to persuade the Chinese authorities to reconsider their actions and immediately put an end to their abuses. That is why, until then, there is still room for diplomatic action, political pressure and, in particular, a coordinated approach at European and international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u58	Colleagues, I share your concern about the human rights situation in Xinjiang and in particular the fate of the Uighurs. My services are following this situation closely. Belgium never hesitates to express its concerns in the various relevant fora, notably in the framework of the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council, where China is regularly on the agenda, as well as in the framework of various working groups and at all levels where the discussion can take place. Within this framework and within the framework of the Human Rights Council and the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly, our country has partnered in several initiatives in cooperation with like-minded countries to call on China to grant meaningful access to the Xinjiang to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. Thus, at the 44th session of the Human Rights Council in late June, our country endorsed the joint statement on China, including the latest developments in Xinjiang. With regard to the family of Ablimit Tursun, the family reunification procedure was completed in Belgium as early as June 2019 and the Chinese authorities were duly informed that we could therefore issue a visa for the wife and the four children. In accordance with the Chinese procedure in force, however, such persons had to be in possession of a Chinese passport, which was not the case. Since 28 May 2019, discreet and regular contacts have continued between the Belgian and Chinese authorities, both in Beijing and in Brussels, with a view to resolving the situation of Ms.Abula and her four children. The issue has been discussed in many meetings between the Chinese Embassy and several of my services, and steps have been taken on this issue by our Ambassador in Beijing. I recall that this case was also raised at a high level, on the margins of the Princely Economic Mission of November 2019. On 16 December 2019, this issue was again discussed at a high-level meeting in Brussels. Chinese interlocutors at all levels have consistently pointed out that, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, foreign States, including Belgium, are not competent to intervene in favour of Chinese citizens residing in China. As far as your questions concerning the establishment of possible blacklists of companies and officials are concerned, the importation of masks does not fall within my specific competence. In any event, I have not received any information at this stage indicating that Belgium has imported masks made in forced internment camps in Xinjiang. Furthermore, with regard to the question concerning the initiation of an investigation into the existence of organ transfers of Uighurs prisoners in China to Belgium, it is also not within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would be delighted to hear which minister is ultimately competent and could act. I believe that it is really interesting and important to also give clarity, transparency to the Belgian people who saw these absolutely terrifying images this summer and who are legitimately waiting for information on the companies that collaborate in repression in the internment camps in Xinjiang.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that we cannot remain silent in the face of the abuses suffered by the Uighur minority in China: torture, organ removal, deportation, forced labour. The facts that are reported to us from month to month are absolutely untenable. We must use the strength of union – it is in fact our national motto: "Union is strength" – within Europe to put pressure on Beijing. It is obvious that only Belgium will be able to do little. But with the Union, we must, in my view, change China in a dialogue and change China's policy, which is fundamentally contrary to human rights policy. I invite you, Minister, to continue your efforts at dialogue and persuasion in the European concert towards Beijing on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u61	Minister, don't take it as a reproach. I fully understand the situation in which you are in, and which is likely still seeking, both in this and in many others, to favour the diplomatic route, which requires some moderation in the statement. However, here in our parliamentary chamber, I find your remarks quite lukewarm. I would like to know your position on the substance: is there, or not, on your part, a firm condemnation of the elements of which you are aware, which are widely reported not only in the press, but in a whole series of official international reports? That is what we need here in Parliament. It is to take an attitude, like democrats, in order to be able to bring this condemnation to other levels: at European level, at international level. You will be better able to do so if you can rely on a formal condemnation, not only of our Parliament, but also of your government, and in particular of your ministry, before national representation. I hope that the diplomatic language you hold will, however, be translated into an active and genuine conviction that these abuses are totally unacceptable, not only from the point of view of our values, but also from the point of view of the fundamental rights protected, inter alia, by the Charter of the United Nations, the New York Pact and a range of other international conventions that protect human dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u62	In the meantime, I have seen the reaction of the European Foreign Affairs Council, but I am referring to the question tabled for the surplus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u63	Belgium takes cyber attacks and thefts of intellectual property very seriously, including attacks on organisations involved in research or the fight against VOCID-19. After we were informed that a Belgian company had been the target of a cyber attack, an investigation was opened in this capacity by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. We have also reacted diplomatically by focusing on the European level. We have thus contributed to the European debate on this subject and strongly supported the statements of High Representative Josep Borrell on cyberattacks. The attribution of cyberattacks is a process distinct from the judicial and diplomatic reactions I have just mentioned and is a political decision. Given the increasing number of cyber attacks, the FPS Foreign Affairs has taken the initiative to develop a national attribution procedure in collaboration with other federal actors such as intelligence and security services. A draft procedure is ready and is to be considered by the National Security Council shortly. Once this national procedure has been adopted, the decision on the possible attribution of future cyberattacks can be taken effectively and within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u64	I thank you for your response and am pleased to hear that a procedure for assigning a cyberattack will be considered by the National Security Council shortly. I do believe that it is important to take account of these new risks. Do I have to understand that there is not only one Belgian company involved in these cyber attacks? All right!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u65	Madam President, I apologize for my many questions, but summer has been a long time! I refer to the written text of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u66	You've been very active!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u67	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, Belgium attaches great importance to the Istanbul Convention, which is the best instrument available in the fight against domestic violence and gender-based violence. Belgium actively promotes the ratification and implementation of this Convention. The promotion and protection of women's rights, including the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, are Belgium's internal and external priorities. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention by as many countries as possible is a priority for our country. In our bilateral contacts with the member States of the Council of Europe, ratification of the Istanbul Convention is systematically mentioned and encouraged. In addition, during the OPU of Portugal, Slovakia and Northern Macedonia, Belgium made questions and recommendations on the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, ratification and suspension of reservations to the Convention, respectively. On 29 October 2019, on the sidelines of the Beijing +25 regional conference, Belgium also organised a side event entitled "The Istanbul Convention in practice. Comprehensive care for victims of sexual violence". Our country has not only advocated broad ratification of the Convention, but has also at the outset stressed the importance of setting the right example in its implementation. The developments in Poland and Turkey you mentioned are indeed a source of questions and are closely followed by our diplomatic posts and our administration in Brussels. Regular contacts also take place with Polish and Turkish civil societies. Following the announcements to which you refer, I immediately reacted publicly through social networks expressing Belgium's deep regret that some States parties are considering withdrawing them from the Istanbul Convention. I reiterated Belgium's full commitment to the Convention to prevent any act of violence against women. I have also called for an end to certain misconceptions about this convention, given the sharp increase in domestic violence in this pandemic period, to enable it to be implemented in Europe. I also recalled that the Istanbul Convention was intended solely to combat violence against women and domestic violence. On 7 August 2020, Belgium and some other like-minded states of the European Union carried out a joint approach with the Polish authorities responsible for the Istanbul Convention, where a similar message was sent. In this process, Poland was also called upon to maintain its commitments to the Istanbul Convention. Belgium has good bilateral relations with Poland, which, like Belgium, is a member of the European Union and the Council of Europe, which has always enabled us to address difficult issues with the Polish authorities. With regard to the denunciation of Article 80 of the Istanbul Convention, the Convention provides that any party may at any time denounce the Convention by notifying the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. The denunciation shall take effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after the date of receipt of the notification by the Secretary-General. The European Commission is closely following these developments in Poland, particularly in the prism of respect for the rule of law. The Article 7 procedure was initiated against Poland in December 2017. This work is under way. Since then, several hearings have already taken place. A statement of the matter will be presented by the Commission under this procedure at the General Affairs Council on 22 September, where the withdrawal of the Istanbul Convention will certainly be discussed. Belgium will not fail to reiterate its support for the Commission in its role as guardian of the Treaties and guarantor of the Union's values. In October 2015, the European Commission published a roadmap on EU accession to the Istanbul Convention, stating that this would create a coherent framework at EU level to combat violence against women, improve prevention for all women, and provide better protection and support for women and children victims of violence and specific women's groups. After the Council of the European Union approved two decisions limiting the scope of signature to exclusive competence on judicial cooperation in criminal matters and on asylum and non-refoulement, the European Union signed the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe on 13 June 2017. The draft Council Decision on the accession of the European Union to the Istanbul Convention has since been the subject of numerous discussions and discussions at technical level in the working group on fundamental rights, citizens' rights and free movement of persons, a working group of the Council. However, an agreement could not be reached to date. For its part, the European Parliament has been the author of several initiatives for the accession of the European Union to this Convention. In September 2017, the European Parliament adopted an interim resolution on the accession of the European Union to the Istanbul Convention, taking into account a joint report by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. In that resolution, the European Parliament called on the Commission to start immediately a dialogue with the Council and the Member States in order to respond to the reservations, objections and concerns expressed at national level, including misunderstandings about the gender concept used in the Convention. The European Parliament has repeatedly called for the acceleration of negotiations for the accession of the European Union to the Istanbul Convention. The President of the European Commission, Ursula Von der Leyen, has made it clear that the conclusion of the European Union's accession to the Istanbul Convention is a priority for its executive. On 5 March 2020, the European Commission adopted a new EU strategy on gender equality for 2020-2025. The conclusion of the European Union's accession to the Istanbul Convention is one of the priorities of this strategy. During the discussions in the Council of the European Union on the Union's ratification of the Istanbul Convention, Belgium has consistently supported the European Union's ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Recently, at an informal teleconference on 17 June, Belgium once again reiterated its support for the Convention and its willingness to see the European Union ratify it. Several Member States supported this position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u68	Minister, your long response is a testament to your commitment. I had submitted my question before you reacted on Twitter, but it is true that, on such essential issues as respect for and promotion of women's rights, I think it is important to make Poland clear that it would cross the red line by withdrawing and denouncing the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u69	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, a bilateral consultation to follow up on the official visit of Foreign Minister Didier Reynders to N'Djamena in September 2017 was planned in June 2018 in Brussels but was unfortunately cancelled by the Chadian side. Nevertheless, several meetings have taken place since this visit between President Déby and King Philippe on the sidelines of the Sahel Conference in February 2018 in Brussels as well as in N'Djamena, between the Chadian Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and members of the Belgian Embassy in Yaoundé in September and December 2019. At present, no further bilateral consultations are planned, but opportunities will certainly arise in the coming months, for example at the European Union-African Union Summit to be held in Brussels in the course of 2021, depending on the evolution of the health crisis. As you know, respect for human rights is at the heart of Belgium's concerns. Even if we do not have an embassy in N'Djamena, we systematically defend, in our bilateral and multilateral contacts, an assertive line on the political level and particularly on issues relating to fundamental rights, good governance and the rule of law. In November 2019 the Africa Group of the Council of the European Union met. Belgium, during the discussion on Chad, in particular stressed the importance of strengthening the judicial and criminal system in order to limit human rights violations and, in December 2019, in the political commission of the International Organization of la Francophonie, we were critical of the Chadian electoral process. An operational engagement within Operation Barkhane is indeed one of the tracks studied by the Defence Staff. Any operational commitment by Defence shall be subject to the agreement of the Council of Ministers. The "Operational Commitment of Defence 2021" dossier is being prepared and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers as soon as it is finalized. In all cases, a Belgian Defence commitment is made in accordance with international conventions and the law of armed conflict. Respect for human rights and the international humanitarian conflict is one of the main lines of Belgian action in the Sahel. In addition, each case for such an undertaking shall be accompanied by a legal opinion. Belgium had no official contact with Chad regarding the accession of the Head of State to the rank of Marshal. This manoeuvre, which aims to strengthen the regime's image of military power among international actors present in the region, does not occult the worrying situation of human rights and weak democratic processes in Chad, like the postponement since 2015 of the legislative elections, currently scheduled for spring 2021. Belgium will closely monitor their progress and will continue to express its concern about the situation of the rule of law, human rights in Chad and its region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u70	Mrs Rohonyi is not present for her question No. 55008133C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u71	Mr Cogolati, Belgium attaches great importance to European coordination and unity. It supports the process of double track followed so far by the European Union, which consists of continuing dialogue with a view to a peaceful and negotiated solution – which is the only valid exit option – while maintaining the pressure on the regime to engage in good faith in this direction. For example, last June the European Union added eleven names of Venezuelan officers to the list of persons targeted by restrictive measures (freeze of assets and travel ban), bringing their total number to 36. Enlargement is not on the agenda at this stage. The ban on the export of equipment, which can be used for repressive purposes, including an arms embargo, is part of the European Union's restrictive measures. The Belgian competent authorities, inter alia at regional level, shall ensure their rigorous implementation. At the same time, the European Union is continuing its efforts to promote a credible, inclusive and democratic electoral process, including the parliamentary election announced on 6 December, notably through the international contact group. The Committee will meet at ministerial level on 17 September. The Member States, including Belgium, are regularly informed of the results of the group's approaches and discussions. The High Representative and Vice-President Josep Borrell also intend to continue the dialogue with stakeholders and international actors in order to change the situation. As such, there is no cooperation programme between Belgium and Venezuela, but, in addition to its contribution to the European Union's financial instruments, Belgium contributes indirectly to the humanitarian response to Venezuela through funding from international humanitarian funds known as flexible funds. These humanitarian funds can provide funding for sudden, forgotten or underfunded crises, such as that of Venezuela. For example, Belgium is contributing to the flexible fund managed by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. It also contributes to the general resources of various multilateral organizations active in the crisis, such as the World Food Programme, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organization for Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u72	Madam President, I will refer again to the text of my question, especially since we have dealt with this issue in the Committee on the Monitoring of Military Operations Abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u73	That will be the last question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u74	Madam President, you should have said that after I asked my question. Now all my colleagues are going to leave! [[Laughs]] Stay, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u75	Mr. Ben Achour, I'm staying!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u76	Thank you, Minister. The coup d'état in Mali on 18 August by part of the army was widely condemned. The putschists, set up as a "National Committee for the Salvation of the People" (CNSP), said they wanted to set up a civil political transition leading to general elections in a "reasonable time". Of course, these remarks have not reassured the international community. The economic community of West African States (ECOWAS) has disapproved of this action, as has the African Union. Both called for the immediate release of Ibrahim Boubacar Keïta and Prime Minister Boubou Cissé. You did the same in the aftermath of these events, while taking note of the resignation of the president and the government. You have also rightly expressed concern about the consequences of the current crisis for the stability of Mali and the Sahel as a whole, of which we are aware of the worrying security situation, and have announced that you will express these concerns at the meeting of the Security Council convened in an emergency on the same day. Minister, have you been able to discuss these events with Malian diplomatic representatives in Belgium? What are the results of the meetings held at both the UN and the European Union level? Does our country intend to take initiatives on this issue, whether in the United Nations or in the European context?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u77	Mr Ben Achour, first of all, I would like to remind you that Mali and the Sahel are among the priority areas of attention of Belgium's African policy. The post network has been strengthened and since 2018 has three embassies: in Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso, all three partner countries of our government development cooperation. The Sahel is also the first area of operation of our Defence. Enabel has developed security programs in cooperation with our federal police. This strong commitment in Mali and the Sahel enables Belgium to enjoy an image of a respected partner, on which it relies to contribute to the resolution of the Malian crisis, whose evolution it closely monitors. Following the coup de force of 18 August, I strongly condemned the military mutiny and arbitrary arrest of President Boubacar Keïta and other officials, including the Prime Minister, and called for the immediate restoration of the constitutional order and democratic institutions. Such a coup cannot be a response to the political crisis in the country. I urged the Malians to engage in peaceful dialogue to resolve the current crisis and expressed my deep concern about its consequences for the stability of Mali and for the stability of the Sahel. Within the framework of my current mandate in the United Nations Security Council, where Niger is also a member of the G5 Sahel, Belgium actively contributed to the informal consultations of 19 August, which publicly condemned the coup de force, stressing the urgent need to restore constitutional order, support for the initiatives of the Economic Community of West African States and the African Union and the need for dialogue between all parties. The Security Council also reiterated its support for the Minusma, a peacekeeping operation involving members of our armed forces whose mandate to support the implementation of the 2015 Algiers Agreement and the protection of the people in the centre of the country remains fully relevant. Belgium also expressed its concerns at the European Council on 19 August and the item was discussed at the Informal Foreign Affairs Council as well as at the informal meetings of Defence Ministers in Berlin on 27 and 28 August 2020. Exchanges have revealed converging positions in line with ours. We hope for an inclusive transition that is civilian-dominated as soon as possible and that meets the aspirations of the population and we support the work of ECOWAS and the African Union. The European States involved in Mali recalled their support for the Malian people. Furthermore, in support of the efforts of regional organizations, Belgium also supported the recommendations of the National Inclusive Dialogue, since any solution must be possible for the Malians themselves. However, the situation is volatile and changing rapidly. At this stage, we continue to monitor the situation closely with our European and United Nations partners, both in terms of our positions on the transition and in terms of the security of our citizens. Belgium has not had any contact with the Malian authorities since then except during a meeting of our new ambassador with the Director Europe of the Malian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and only as part of the delivery of his credentials following his assumption of office, just fourteen days before the coup. Before we take initiatives, we have to wait for the dust to fall. The Malian context was already very complex before this coup. He's even more so today. We must also remain pragmatic and cautious. We must ensure that the Malian State does not collapse without legitimizing the principle of coup de force. At the level of the European Union, in addition to the positions I have just mentioned, Belgium has stressed the risk of a collapse of the Malian State and the need to maintain international missions in Mali in order to avoid a security vacuum, even though mission training and advice activities remain suspended pending clarification of the situation and legitimate civilian interlocutors. Indeed, while the coup de force has not had an impact on the security of the missions on the ground, the security situation in Mali and the Sahel is still worrying and fully justifies their continued existence. At the UN level, while the situation in Mali is not formally on the agenda for the coming weeks, it remains a focus of attention by the field presence of the MINUSMA mission or the United Nations Office for West Africa. Belgium also intervened in the context of the Francophonie, which decided on 26 August to suspend Mali from the organisation. We did not explicitly condemn the invalidation of the results of the last legislative acts but intervened within the European and United Nations framework, in particular by supporting the mediation efforts of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), whose recommendations included the reconstitution of the Constitutional Court and the resolution of the dispute over the contested seats in the National Assembly. We have also encouraged both parties to engage in a process of peaceful and democratic dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u78	Mr Minister, I believe that particular attention should be paid to the sanctions imposed by ECOWAS, which are likely to further weaken the Malian population. It is also necessary to avoid the spread of the crisis in the Sahel and the countries bordering Mali. Finally, I think I am very firm on the maintenance of the democratic transition schedule. We must at all costs try to ensure that free and transparent elections are not postponed to the Greek calendia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers. Between the time of the drafting of the questions and today, my point of view has changed significantly, in particular following the meeting I held with the Ambassador of Mali in Belgium within the framework of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, of which I chair the Mali section. Moreover, the actors in the transition took decisions yesterday and today and committed themselves to a transitional charter, which sets the deadline before the elections at 18 months. So we know the horizon. I was very interested and surprised by the Malian Ambassador's speech. He explained that this "coup d'état" was probably a good thing and had intervened at the right time, in order to allow the disintegration of the State, as its leaders were dishonoured by the population. Indeed, I note that the actors in the transition have embarked on a process that is quite interesting from a democratic point of view. It is something rather inclusive and very open. The ambassador confirmed to me that all the actors on the Malian political and civil scene had been invited to participate, in particular the Tuareg people who were in serious conflict with Bamako. Now all this is very fragile. We must therefore remain attentive to the response that the international community will continue to provide. You mustn't lock yourself up. There is certainly a breach of the constitutional order which, in itself, is not acceptable, but pragmatism will be necessary to assist the transition. From this point of view, we will have to raise awareness of ECOWAS – of which we are obviously not members – and of Mali's neighbours in order to adopt a position that is not too harsh. For the moment, they have opted for a fairly firm answer. One already feels tensions born between the M5 movement at the base of this overthrow, and the soldiers who transformed the trial, one reprimanding the other to steal their victory. We already feel tensions that could degenerate, including within the M5 movement. My analysis of this crisis has evolved and I invite you to contact the Ambassador of Mali to talk to him, which would enable Belgium to position itself intelligently and pragmatically on this important issue, particularly from a security point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u80	Mr. Ben Achour, you didn't stay alone, so it wasn't a face-to-face. Madam President, Foreign Affairs has launched a questionnaire to all staff, in Brussels or abroad, in relation to his feeling of the VOCID-19 crisis, the way in which he has lived it and the ideas he wishes to put forward. This report has been completed and I would like to transmit it to you so that you can pass it on to all members of this Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u81	Minister, I have forgotten an important part of the reply. Benelux financed the work of an independent international commission of inquiry into the abuses committed by the Malian army. The conclusions of this report, which was planned in the 2015 Algiers agreement, were reportedly delivered last June. I don't know if you know about it. If so, could you convey to us the conclusions of this report, which is of particular interest to me as President of the Mali section of the IPU?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u82	It'll be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u83	Would you like to reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u84	Minister, you were talking about the questionnaire that was shared. I think it is really important to convey the thanks of the members of the Committee on External Relations to the staff of the FPS Foreign Affairs. It is true that, as parliamentarians, we did not spare it during the crisis of the VOCID-19, on several sensitive issues. I am thinking in particular of the repatriation of Belgians trapped abroad. Our thanks and appreciation for the work that has been done under particularly difficult circumstances should be expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u85	We'll do it. You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u86	I would like to add that next Tuesday at 10 a.m. there will be a committee meeting with a hearing with Peter Maurer of the International Red Cross. An arrangement of the work is then planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u87	Madam President, when do we get back to the order of business? Minister, would you be available before the end of the month?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u88	I'll tell you that very, very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic256x.u89	Mr. Minister has already announced that we will return to committee at the end of September.
