ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament 55003825C and 55003860C by Mr Van Hecke were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u2	Minister, our group is sneaking up on you from two sides, but you know us; that is in full goodwill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u3	I'm just getting snuck up on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u4	Yes. (LAUGHING) Perhaps we should move on to the question before our conversation takes us somewhere we do not want to go. Due to the final battle around Idlib I suspect that it will have found its way to a Turkish cell in the past weeks and months a number of Syrian fighters. One example is Fouad Akrich, who was captured by the Turkish security forces after a long, perhaps impressive career, first at Sharia4Belgium, later at the brigades of Al-Nusra. I also questioned Minister Goffin yesterday in a different context. In some cases, like Mr Akrich, they were previously deprived of Belgian nationality by a conviction, but I can imagine that the Justice Department would like them to serve their sentence, of course, and that extradition would be requested. The Turkish authorities have sometimes given the impression that they ignore or disregard Belgian decisions on the removal of nationality. When courts in our country go beyond Mr Akrich's situation, taking the decision to deprive a number of individuals of their nationality, will we be able to "enforce" that with foreign authorities, so that they agree that person A or B is no longer Belgian? Can the Belgian Justice guarantee that the persons of dual nationality whose Belgian nationality has been deprived will receive the same treatment as those who, for example, are only Moroccan? What contacts do you maintain in relation to the countries of which the persons concerned now have the remaining nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u5	Minister, there is an interface between my question and that of my colleague. A few weeks ago, we discussed and voted on the declaration of dual nationality in the Committee on the Interior. It was a somewhat strange vote because we never came to a consensus. The item will also be on the plenary agenda tomorrow. Today, Belgian nationality can be taken away. We just wanted to strengthen the framework. At the time, you also made the pertinent remark that it was a good thing that N-VA wanted an automatism in this matter, but that the Council of State was right that there should still be a judicial test. As we had subsequently amended the text, there was no legal reason to vote the legislative proposal away. That was a purely political decision. We will, of course, not let go of the subject immediately. Minister, how many persons convicted of terrorism were Belgian nationals taken from in 2019? How many persons convicted of terrorism in Belgium have returned to our country after they have stayed in foreign conflict areas? Have you already consulted the prosecution on a structural approach to the withdrawal of terrorists? If so, what are the plans and at what time do you see them being realized?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u6	Madam President, Mr De Roover, Mr Metsu, first of all, as regards the people who have returned to our country, I would like to inform you that the available data do not indicate how many of these returns have been convicted. I can tell you that 37 returns were in a Belgian prison at the end of 2019. With regard to the revocation of Belgian nationality, which is essentially the subject of your questions, I can inform you that in 2019 such a revocation was pronounced 13 times for terrorist offences. The structural approach you are asking for already exists. An important element are the binding guidelines of 3 May 2018 of the College of Attorneys General regarding the revocation of Belgian nationality in terrorist cases. Declarations of Belgian nationality shall be given by the Belgian courts. You are right to ask what the consequences are for third countries. With regard to the expulsion by a third state of a foreign fighter from Belgium, we have learned from experience that the focus should be on avoiding an uncontrolled return to Belgian territory. That is precisely why the previous government has decided to organise a hotspot procedure, which also includes the necessary contacts with the State which decides to expel it. The Belgian authorities are following closely developments regarding expulsions. It takes into account the finding that such expulsions took place to neighbouring countries, although those countries had reported that the person to be designated no longer had the nationality of that country. With regard to the execution of the sentence in the State of which the convicted person still has the nationality following the declaration of invalidity of Belgian nationality, it should be recalled that the transfer to a non-EU Member State of such a person always requires the consent of that State. We note that it is difficult to obtain such a transfer authorisation from the third countries most involved in this process if the convicted person has never even had Belgian nationality. I do not exclude that we can also ask the question of transfer for persons who have just lost Belgian nationality, but I think it is more likely that we should first unblock the situation for persons who have never even had Belgian nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and the figures. I would like to touch on two more points. The distinction you make between people who have never been Belgian and those who are no longer Belgian may not need to be made anymore. If their Belgian nationality has expired, they are, for example, Moroccan and nothing else. If we take that Belgian past with us and therefore make that distinction, then perhaps we will support the argument of the other states that taking away that nationality is only half a job. Secondly, when you talk about the hotspot procedure, you are probably talking about Turkey? I believe that we have a fairly well-functioning agreement with this. I suspect that this is far less the case with the other countries. It is therefore not possible to act in the same way there. You can clarify this on another occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the very clear answers. I am pleasantly surprised that in 2019 a cancellation was already pronounced thirteen times, after a judicial test. Our proposal also contained the idea of not making a distinction between people who are Belgians from birth and those who have become Belgians after a procedure, if they have dual nationality. For us, a Belgian is a Belgian. Apparently, however, that went a step too far for many colleagues. We also regret that the duration of effective prison sentences must be at least five years. A few weeks ago, there was another verdict for two IS fighters in which the prosecutor effectively claimed five years and sentenced the judge to 40 months and four years. If these women had the dual nationality, they would not be eligible for that revocation at all. Once again, I regret that the bill that was pending here for four years, for which we lobbied and adapted, will fall on a cold stone tomorrow. At least we're not letting this go. We will continue to ask you questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament 55003864C by Mrs Rohonyi is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55003895C by Mr Piedboeuf is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u10	Mr Minister, ten Vietnamese migrants were discovered in the cargo bay of a lorry on its way to the United Kingdom on Thursday at Ghentbrugge motorway parking. Four men have been arrested on suspicion of human trafficking. The ball started rolling when Belgian and British police noticed suspicious transports between the port of Zeebrugge and the port of Purfleet in England. The Maritime Police and the Human Trafficking Team of the West Flemish Federal Judicial Police therefore launched an investigation, together with the British National Crime Agency. The investigators were able to identify the trailer with transmigrants, which allowed the truck to be intercepted at the motorway park in Gentbrugge. A total of ten Vietnamese were discovered between a load of stacked car tires. "Ten lives, including eight minors, are safer now thanks to our close cooperation with Belgian partners," the NCA reports in a press release. We are, of course, very pleased that it appears once again that international cooperation pays off in the fight against this type of crime. Belga also reports that the ten transmigrants have been made available to the Foreign Affairs Office. Research shows that smuggled Vietnamese minors are ultimately exploited in the UK in cannabis plantations, nailshops and prostitution. In this sense, there is often serious trafficking in human beings on top of human trafficking. That is why I am asking you this question, because I do not intend to ask a question about any interception, but this is a very special issue. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. There were eight minors in that group of ten. How many minors was a guardian appointed? How many age tests were conducted? How many turned out to be really underage in the end? Smuggling of minors is an aggravating circumstance, which gives rise to the launch of a procedure for trafficking in human beings. Did that happen? What specialised care, related to trafficking in human beings, was provided for minors? How many can enjoy it now? How many of them did it stay at an observation center when they signed up? What are your views on a procedure of objective victimisation for underage victims of human trafficking, knowing that it is often very difficult for Vietnamese minors to obtain statements immediately because they are often still under the control of the smugglers and traffickers? How many minors do you know where they are now? What happened to the adults? Were they eventually housed in a specialised centre for trafficking in human beings? My question is therefore, above all, whether there has been a systematic approach here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u11	Mr Segers, on Thursday 5 March 2020, ten transmigrants of supposedly Vietnamese nationality were indeed found in Gentbrugge. Eight of them were underage. The two adults were housed in the closed asylum centre of Bruges. The eight minors were under the authority of the Voogdij service and were taken over by this service and taken to the observation and orientation centre of Fedasil. No age tests were carried out, as there was no doubt about the minority. However, the day after arrival in the centre the minors left the shelter. Fedasil reported their disappearance to the police. The Voogdij has appointed a guardian, who will continue to follow the disappearance with the parish. The issue of creating an objective victimisation procedure for victims of trafficking in human beings is complex and has already been the subject of various discussions. As regards international instruments, States are not obliged to apply similar protection measures to victims of trafficking in human beings. However, Belgium has made exceptions to this. For underage victims, cooperation with the Justice Department can indeed sometimes be difficult. However, in practice, the most appropriate procedure is regularly sought and this is in line with the situation of the young person. For example, the TEH procedure, la traite des être humains, is a possible option. The facts in the judicial investigation are indeed qualified as human trafficking with aggravating circumstances, including the minority of a number of victims. Although the victims did not wish to register as disadvantaged persons, they were still questioned. Their statements are, of course, covered by the secret of the judicial investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u12	Mr. Secretary, I'm really worried when I hear your answer. We know that trafficking in human beings by under-age Vietnamese is very often about trafficking in human beings and that minors placed in an observation centre are very often excluded from it. It is also not so difficult to get back into the grip of traffickers or smugglers. In view of these objective facts, I do wonder why it has not taken place in the specialised care of minor victims of trafficking in human beings. That would have been very appropriate here. I'm really wondering why that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u13	Madam President, Minister, last Friday the guards took action against minimum services. It was approved by law last year by a majority in this House. It is almost symbolic that the minimum service was applied the first time in a strike against that minimum service. However, I keep thinking that this law made the right choice. However, it is now apparent that there were too few staff in a number of prisons to ensure the minimum level of service. Firstly, do you now have a clear view of how many prisons there were shortages? How big were the deficits? What were the general figures? Secondly, how many guards will one day have to work in Belgium when all prisons are stopped? How many came to work effectively during the 24-hour strike? Thirdly, do you also have a view of the reasons why the necessary numbers were not achieved? Were there any sick? Were there other reasons, e.g. guards who were willing to work, but who might have been prevented from going to the workplace by strike stations? I know that there are no claims in the event of short strikes, but perhaps there are other reasons why they were asked for additional penitentiary officers. If there were no criminal officers absent for no legitimate reason, will there be sanctions? Finally, do you take measures to prevent minimum service provision becoming a measure of nothing in the event of short strikes? We have now touched a point of pain at short strikes: it is not obvious there, also because no one can claim. If one chooses to stop only one day each time, the legislation will miss its goal. We must avoid getting away with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u14	Madam President, Mrs De Wit, only in the Mechelen and Vorst prisons were there on the whole strike day fewer staff than foreseen in the plans, applying the 20/25 % rule. For Mechelen, this is about a deficit of five employees, for Frost over nine. In all other prisons, there were generally more staff on the strike day than registered in the operational plans, even without applying the 20/25 % rule. According to the plans, 19,067 staff are required to work under surveillance and technology. This is without the 20/25 % line. There are 2,005 staff coming to work. It should be noted that not all shifts were populated as included in the plans, but overall over the whole day the figures were good. As far as I know, there hasn't been any obstruction of the willing. We didn't need any requisition. This is also not in the laws and regulations for strikes that have been announced under 49 hours. The Royal Decree of 19 November 2019 provides that any member of staff who has not offered his or her place of employment, while he or she had nevertheless expressed the intention to come to work or have indicated a strike interest but was claimed, shall be placed in the state of non-activity for the duration of the unlawful absence. In the case of contractual staff, the contract of employment shall be suspended for the duration of the unlawful absence. Measures other than these are currently not necessary. The evaluation of last Friday's strike is currently under way. The review of the functioning of the system itself should be carried out in accordance with the legislation not later than the year following its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u15	Minister, I am already pleased that the figures are generally obtained, because I had understood something else from what has appeared in the media. I also heard a prison director on the radio who explained the situation in detail, which was very interesting. She confirmed that when negotiations were held per prison, it was not the case that one should show up. You've always said this. It has raised this issue, as has the fact that there are fewer possibilities for prisoners during the minimum service. I would very much like to follow, together with you, the evaluation of these strike days and, of course, the further operation of the minimum service in the slightly longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u16	Madam President, Minister, on March 5, 2020 at 10:00 p.m. the first general strike of prison staff under the minimum service regime established by the Act of March 23, 2019 and Ministerial Circular No. 1819 began. These plans are intended to meet the basic needs referred to in section 17 of the Act of 23 March 2019. The circular provides for the forced requisition of workers. These claims are contrary to International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention No. 87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organize, in that the circular provides for the requisition of workers in the event of a strike for many posts, such as registry or accounting, to which the definition of essential services does not apply, i.e. those whose interruption would endanger the life, safety or health of the person in general or in part of the population. Moreover, the law of 23 March 2019 is the only law that allows unilateral requisitions, in other words that does not require the prior agreement of the workers' representatives. In fact, the provisional instructions specify that the management "may" consult the trade unions. Moreover, a statutory worker who does not submit to management orders is subject to very heavy administrative penalties involving financial losses and an impact on both seniority and requests for transfer, promotion and sick leave. In view of the above, Minister, can you explain to us the role of each group of personnel (direction, technical, supervision, registry, accounting, psychosocial, medical) in meeting the essential needs referred to in Article 17 of the Act of 23 March 2019, in accordance with ILO Convention No. 87? Are the provisional instructions, in that they do not require the prior agreement of the workers' representatives, in accordance with the law of 23 March 2019 on social consultation? Can you describe precisely the consequences of the administrative penalty for the non-active placement in a one-day strike for the worker who did not execute the requisition order?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u17	Mr Boukili, the model plan determined by the Royal Decree of 4 August 2019 provides that technical-oriented groups – supervision, registry, accounting, psychosocial and medical – must be included in the operational plans. Their role is usually assigned to them in the event of a strike, in order to ensure the activities provided for by the law, within the framework of the continuity of the prison service. The provisional instructions, in that they do not require the prior agreement of the unions, are in accordance with the law of 23 March 2019 on social consultation, as this text does not determine which subjects should be negotiated. The Law of 19 December 1974 on the organization of relations between the public authorities and the trade unions of officials under their jurisdiction lays down the case in which a matter is to be negotiated or consulted. My administration and I are of the opinion that the communication from DG EPI of 28 February, entitled "Provisional Instructions on the organisation of social consultation in the event of a social conflict and on the initiatives to be taken by the prison director in the event of notice of a strike", is not a matter of negotiation or consultation. Everything that's taken over has been negotiated. It is only a note that clearly collects the instructions for directors and lists the different actions they need to take. The consequences of the administrative penalty for placing in non-activity during a one-day strike for the worker who did not execute the requisition order are that the person loses the right to pay for that day, as well as the administrative and financial seniority of the month in which the strike is organised. This can therefore have an impact on all events for which seniority is taken into account, such as baraemic advancement, transfer or promotion to a higher rank and sick leave, in that a public official can obtain 21 working days of sick leave per 12 months of service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. In my view, the law of 23 March stipulates that the management must, and not can, consult with the unions. According to your answer, it is different. In any case, I believe that consultation should take place on its own initiative, under the penalty of removing a trade union right from our representatives, which constitutes an infringement of the right to strike. As far as the one-day strikes are concerned, it seems to me that neither the management nor the accounting services nor those of the registry require so many people. As a result, this justification leaves me perplexed and does not convince me. As for the treatment of agents who refuse to apply, it is very, very severe. At least this is how it was qualified by the International Labour Organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u19	Minister, in a press release of 8 January 2020, magistrates and lawyers from across the country joined forces to launch a new alarm cry in the face of the worrying situation in the justice system. This press release follows the "66 Days to Save Justice" campaign launched in May 2019 by the Justice for All Platform, which brings together some 20 actors from the civil society and the judiciary. The signatories are the Association syndicale des magistratures, the Nederlandstalige Vereniging van Magistraten, the Orde van Vlaamse Balies, the Bar of Cassation, the Consultative Council of the Judiciary, the Magistratuur & Maatschappij, the Ligue des droits humains and the Liga voor Mensenrechten. This is a strong signal. Their first joint claim concerns access to justice, I quote: "A justice accessible to all, which implies the lifting of financial barriers (a relaxation of the conditions of access to legal aid, reduced VAT on the fees of lawyers, bailiffs and notaries, reduction of the costs of procedure), geographical (proximity of the places of justice) and procedural (simplification of the procedures)". On December 14, 2019, you formally confirmed to me in the Justice Committee that people below the poverty line did not have access to free second-line legal aid. The government agreement of 10 October 2014 states: "The social dimension of justice is crucial. For this reason, the second-line legal aid system is essential. (...) The government is reforming and modernizing the second-line legal aid system in order to ensure long-term support for those entitled to it." It is striking to obtain a consensus on your part on the reality of the dams pointed out in this press release, without, however, having begun to lift them in the last legislature. Minister, can you tell me the number of people below the poverty line who were denied access to full-free second-line legal aid in 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u20	Mr Boukili, as stated in the answer to your question of 4 December 2019 in this committee, to which I refer you, I cannot confirm the number of people living below the poverty line who do not have access to legal aid, because the statistics concerning them do not include these data. I am therefore not in a position to answer that question. I remind you that I have repeatedly expressed my wish to raise the income thresholds necessary to receive partial or total free legal aid. I am ready to continue the discussion in this committee on the two related bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is a great pity that these figures are not available, as this would make it possible to see the impact of this social problem and to know the real number of people who do not have access to justice. If I am in your will to raise the income thresholds in order to have access to free justice, I invite you to support the proposed law in this direction in the Committee on Justice. It will be a good way to raise the thresholds and give our citizens more access to justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u22	Madam Chair, Minister, many criminological studies cast doubt on the usefulness of imprisonment, particularly on the prevention of the risk of recidivism. The National Institute of Criminalistics and Criminalology itself states that the more the criminal record is filled, the higher the risk of recidivism. In an interview with Pour écrire la liberté, on 16 September 2019, Valérie Lebrun, director of Ittre prison, denounced the ineffectiveness of the penal system. With a lucid look at a system she knows well, since she sees it from the inside, she said: "What is the purpose of these prisons? It is a fundamental question of choice of society and politics. If the purpose of confinement is to avoid recidivism, it is a flagrant failure. Prison does not in any way prevent recidivism, on the contrary, and even a number of mechanisms produce it. So very concretely if it is to have an adequate response to delinquency, prison is not a solution." In Belgium, the number of repeat offenders increased from 4,820 in 2010 to 7,109 in 2014. Similarly, in December 2019 there were 10,883 people in cells for 9,219 places, an increase of almost 30% in the prison population since 2000, while there has been a significant reduction in crime since 2011. As a result, longer periods of pre-trial detention, heavier sentences and stricter application of parole. Minister, in absolute numbers, how many repeat offenders are estimated in 2019? How many of these repeat offenders were sentenced to a suspended sentence (partial or total) prior to recidivism? How many of these repeat offenders were sentenced to imprisonment prior to recidivism? How many of these repeat offenders have already been held in pre-trial detention prior to recidivism? How many of these recidivists had previously been the subject of a juvenile measure prior to recidivism?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u23	Thank you, Mr. Boukili. In the short period of time of an oral question, it is impossible to provide this type of current and detailed numerical data. Moreover, it is true that the term'recidive' covers many legal interpretations. Does it refer to recidivism as provided for in the Criminal Code? To successive convictions of all kinds and punishment? Or committing offences as a result of a previous conviction? However, I would like to refer you to the feasibility study of a recidivism monitoring, completed by the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology (INCC) in 2019. As soon as the subject of the study was defined, it was also pointed out by the researchers that the legal interpretation of recidivism as a legal repetition is generally different from what is considered to be recidivism in the social sciences. This must be taken into account if social and criminological conclusions on recidivism are to be drawn. The establishment of a real monitoring of recidivism, with the aim of generating representative figures at national level, is a necessity in order to be able to interpret recidivism correctly. The study has shown that it is possible to cross-check databases, but it goes without saying that the quality of the data is also crucial. This is therefore the first challenge on which more work needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u24	Mr Minister, I hear you say that the time period does not allow this, but I would just like to point out that on 6 January 2020 we received a request from your collaborator regarding our questions on these figures. On 16 January, we forwarded the list. On January 20, we formally introduced written questions on these figures to the House. On 28 January, they were sent again to your department. On 9 March, we reintroduced them into oral questions, and today the time is more than a month and a half away. Do we have the capacity to have these figures? That would make sense given that all these people are noted and registered in our services. Is it possible to have these figures or not? If it is possible, we would like to have them, to give us an idea of the situation of recidivism in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic136x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament 55003984C by Mr D'Haese and No. 550040119C by Mrs Vanrobaeys will be postponed until next week.
