ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u2	The discussion of the government statement is resumed. The discussion of the Government's statement is resumed. Mrs Pas has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, classical music has often brought disaster and misery to the Flemish people. Think of the performance of the operetta "De Stomme van Portici" on August 25, 1830. And now it's the turn of Vivaldi, the composer of the four seasons. I just hope we didn't leave with this team for a three-year winter season. Actually, it's an incredible dishonor for that violin virtuoso Antonio Vivaldi to name this thing after him. Prime Minister De Croo, you mentioned in your government statement about respect, democracy and trust. Respect. Perhaps you could call on your ministers to attend sometime. I think it is respect for the opposition to at least be present in the discussion of the government statement. Respect for the electorate, let that be the biggest loss of this government today. This Vivaldi coalition has no respect for the voters. The so-called positive Vivaldi project is a left-wing, francophone tax project that runs counter to the signal given by the electorate almost 500 days ago. Many Flemish voters are disappointed. They feel like Mr Calvo today: betrayed and pushed aside. In Flanders, your government also has no democratic legitimacy. Either way, this government has no majority in Flanders. It does not represent the Flemings, not electoral, but also, and above all, not as far as that right-wing stream in Flanders is concerned. There is no other country where the two largest parties of the country are set aside. Those two largest parties in the country did not sit at the table, even though they together get more than three times as many votes as the largest party at the government table. And then you're talking about democracy in your government statement. I also know that you are not doing anything illegal by putting aside those two large parties, which made nearly 2 million votes. Belgium simply doesn't have a winner takes it all system. But be aware that if you want to restore confidence in politics, as you said in your government statement, you will not do so by putting a loser take all system into practice, as is happening today. Seven dwarves now form a leprechaun government, seven. And the miserable preferred voices of the many excellences illustrate that. With the exception of one federally elected member of the federal government, I have to leave them all behind in the number of preferred votes. Most ministers and secretaries of state have raised fewer people than there were at the Heysel last week at our protest event. I'm gonna take one out. Don't take it personally. It is representative of almost everyone else in your government and he is not yet present, but Sammy Mahdi got 6 779 preferred votes. Leprechaun Plop had 1 200 more on that same list, so it's actually worse than a leprechaun government. Several ministers and secretaries of state do not even represent a single vote, zero. Why choose people when so many noble unknown non-elected are in the government? Participation is holding-up on democracy, which you mentioned in your government statement: respect, democracy and trust. Do you expect to restore confidence in politics by breaking election promises, by doing the opposite of everything you say? During your party's presidential election, less than six months ago, Lachaert also called for fiscal autonomy for the region. With him as chairman of Open Vld, there would be no nuclear exit in 2025. Before the summer, Prime Minister, you argued for purple-yellow, otherwise, and I quote, otherwise you will never get a stable government. You said that I do not like a purple-green one, even if you should not be offered the prime ministership of such a government on a dish. Because I quote: Open Vld did not do well in the elections. We are the seventh party in Parliament. You have to respect democracy. At the time, you were talking about democracy and respect. As prime minister without force, you're the mop of your government, end of quote. And now look at the same man who, during the previous legislature, could not show himself as Minister of Development Cooperation abroad without promising money, who is now our prime minister. What Lachaert and you have done, Minister, involuntarily reminds me of the joke of American comedian Groucho Marx of the Marx Brothers: these are my principles, but if you don't like them, I have others. In the United States that was a joke, but in this country they call it statesmanship and taking responsibility. Last summer you wanted to form a sober government with ten ministers. Yesterday, no less than twenty excellencies took the oath, twenty. I even wonder if at the MR, apart from the father, the son and the younger brother, there might be a second cousin somewhere who's shy about a job. Now's the time, I'd say. Create 20 posts and then fill them out by family members. If Belgium were Hungary, Prime Minister, the European Union would have gone to trial for a long time. There are seven days a week, the government and the rainbow have seven colors. There are seven seas, seven main sins, seven continents, seven works of mercy, and now there is one unique thing. There is now also a country with seven vice prime ministers, seven megakabinets to fill. I wonder if that is your interpretation of boosting employment. I wonder if it was members' congresses that went on for the past week, or if they were rather job fairs. When it comes to the post, apparently there are no political families. Even the so undividable binding group of Ecolo-Green has two vice-premiers. Very binding, all of you. Do you think that with the appointment of such a Mexican army to ministers and Secretary of State, you respect the citizens in corona crisis? Is that how you intend to restore confidence in politics, Prime Minister? I'll come back to the number seven. Do you think it is normal for the seventh party in a country to deliver the prime minister of that country? In many countries there are not even so many parties. The election results are not taken into account in government formation in this country. That has nothing to do with each other here. This doesn't count. Here are other decisive arguments. Fils à daddy, that is not a statutory condition for premiership in this country, but it does help. And what's also a plus to becoming Prime Minister is a good family relationship with the royal family. Since yesterday we have, by the way, all cheered, with Delphine and her children two more princesses and a prince added. I certainly hope that we are not going to have to pay backwards, because then the gap in the budget will never be closed again. From the posts to the talk, namely the coalition agreement. In your declaration, Prime Minister, you have called for a policy that is not too harsh and that is not too much to be broken down. Now, I've been through those 83 pages very carefully and carefully, but it's really not easy not to tear it down. I'm going to do my best to start with two positive points. The first positive point for your government is that you set the bar so low and that the expectations of the citizens of this country are so low that you can only do it better than expectations. It can only be easy. And if I may make another positive point, it is the courtesy, correctness and courtesy with which you, as we have been the Vice Prime Minister, have been engaged in the debate for years. A friendly good day and elementary courtesy, which is already a breach of style with your predecessor, Prime Minister. You will remember the many images in Parliament, and now it is even completely absent. But when I interviewed Wilmès, she would always be watching her cell phone or turning around, as long as she didn't have to look at us. Actually, Prime Minister, that reminds me of bulls in bullfighting. Do you know any banderillas? Those are of those decorated sticks, about an arm length. And if the torero, the bullfighter, stabs one in the neck of a bull, that beast can't put his head up from the pain. That's too much pain shoots to even look up. It must be that our verbal pricks were very painful in the past legislature because your predecessor showed exactly the same symptoms. But it is certainly positive, constructive that you at least have the courtesy to conduct the debate properly, just as you are used to it from us. The coalition agreement is vague and woolly and almost everything is being put on the long track. It's vagueness trump card. In order to form a government in Belgium, you have to write a very vague text that is multi-interpretable, because all government parties must be able to interpret it differently, otherwise you will not get an agreement. We are already euphoric because of an agreement, we are happy because there is an agreement rather than what the content of that agreement is, you can go either way. In addition to wooliness and vagueness, there are still many platitudes. One example: there will be an active and transversal policy on diversity and equal opportunities. I really don't know what to imagine. Hopefully that will be clear soon. But your coalition agreement is also full of contradictions. You cannot blame the opposition for looking for contradictions, because you yourself wrote them in black and white in your coalition agreement. Thus there are supposed to be no new taxes, but a third of the new revenues will come from new taxes. Another example: the coalition agreement provides for a fight against tobacco consumption, and the goal of a smoke-free generation is enshrined in the coalition agreement. But in that budget table that we have received from you, the revenue from VAT and excise duties on tobacco is on the increase. How these revenues will be increased is a mystery to me, because they are already taxed at the rate of 21%. But I hope that will be clear soon. Your coalition agreement is still full of uncertainties. What is certain and what many Flemings, especially the savers, are wondering is how you see the contribution of those who have the greatest carrying capacity. That too is very multi-interpretable. For your party, for the MR, that's not power tax. But according to PS chairman Magnette, it is indeed a capital charge. Mr Laaouesh has just confirmed, at the request of my good colleague Wouter Vermeersch, that there is indeed a need to think towards a capital tax. Minister Gilkinet mentioned a millionaire tax intended to finance health care. What is it now, are we getting any clarity about it? Your coalition agreement, Prime Minister, is like those Vivaldi parties themselves with spit and spider thread. Only one thing binds you: fear, a crippling fear of the electorate, a panic fear of a ballot, a sacred fear of democracy, which you were so full of in your declaration of government. In Belgium, it has now come to the point where a party that wants elections is called undemocratic and those who absolutely do not want elections, who have no message at all from the electorate, that they are referred to as democratic. In your coalition agreement there is something for each party, but something for the electorate or something for the future, that is very far-fetched. As far as the search for mouth masks was under the responsibility of Maggie De Block. My fellow Members will discuss these different issues in greater depth during the round of the theme. But I'd like to give you some chalk lines anyway. In general, the coalition chord is coloured like the color code of this country regarding corona red. There are some good social measures in it, and I will allow you to dedicate them to a great deal. The principle of 1 500 euro minimum pension. You know that we are certainly in favour of this, but that must of course go hand in hand with a reform of the system. The number of kilometres on the counter must be taken into account for everyone, and that is more correct than just taking into account the age of the car. Moreover, the retirement age with this government remains 67 years, despite all the electoral promises. And, of course, we must also provide the means to finance everything. Minister Vandenbroucke, the bomb or better bomba of Conner. With him in the government, that can't go wrong. He will undoubtedly insist on urgency with his colleague responsible for pensions. Because I remember that in 2004 he wrote together with Vande Lanotte in an open letter that 2004 should be the pivotal year in the pension reform. Sixteen years ago, he wrote that there was no time to lose. That was right after the last purple-green government. The necessary reform is still not in place today. The frequent consultation with the social partners is a good thing in itself. Provided that it finally comes to a decision, because in the previous government it was unfortunately too often used as a cemetery if one did not get out of the government. Expenditure is there, but reforms are still awaited. What is certain is that the invoice will go to the ordinary Flemish citizen and taxpayer. The dismantling of alternative forms of remuneration: is this about commercial cars, as Minister De Sutter has already confirmed on the radio? The fact that the vast majority of commercial vehicles in this country are located in Flanders will probably not be strange. I would also have liked to have been made clear in Minister Gilkinet's plans whether it is true that this government is also planning to tax their income. I should like to congratulate Mr Green on his excellent work today. The passages in the government agreement on energy and climate seem to have been taken completely out of your program. Even almost all the legislative proposals and resolutions on mobility are literally reflected in the points of the coalition agreement. Only the hunger of power was so great that you could not push your breaking point, the core exit, with certainty. Nice work. Instead of burning your program ritual. Because that was the condition that Open Vld-President Lachaert demanded in order to be able to join the liberals. And now he has achieved the opposite, because I have not yet found many liberals in the coalition agreement. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, Ecolo-Groen, that CO2 taxes are passed on in the final products of a company and that it is therefore the consumer who would pay for this. Also be aware, ladies and gentlemen of Ecolo-Groen, that your government bike is in the administrative mud. And that brings me to the Community part of the coalition agreement. Allow me to address this important section to the CD&V. In Michel I's government statement, I addressed the N-VA on this issue. Those who remain, who then followed the debates, will probably remember that. At that time, and not just me, I was very disappointed at the Community standstill which has been unseen since the 1960s. Of course, I denounced that in my intervention. It was sensitive, because I was interrupted by the chairman of the N-VA group. Those who were there will remember the context: if the so-called socio-economic recovery government were to smoke out the French-speaking people and thus increase their Community appetite. In the meantime, they would structurally put the budget in order. That's what it was, if I'm not mistaken. The only people who are now being smoked are the Flemings: their expectations have not been met. On the contrary, they were saddled with higher invoices and in the meantime, that billions flow continues to increase towards Wallonia and Brussels. The transfers are confirmed in the coalition agreement today. But do you remember that the great consolation prize at the time was that the PS wasn't in the government? We would see something in 2019, that great state reform would come, and literally the N-VA group chairman interrupted me as follows: "Mrs. Pas, I do not think you are fully aware of what is happening in this Parliament. We are experiencing a historical event: after 26 years the PS is in opposition," it sounded euphoric. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if you remember what my answer was back then. Do you remember, Mr. De Roover?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u4	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u5	It was another group chairman, but you were wrong. You can take the report from that meeting. I predicted two things to your group: firstly, that after the 2019 elections, the PS would be back in that federal government, and secondly, that five years of Community stagnation was the reason to become a ten-year Community standstill, and unfortunately I was right. You laughed at that answer because I did not understand the great strategy behind it, but you, who say that you are playing a few classes higher in substance, will have to explain that strategy to me again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u6	Mr De Roover wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u7	Mr President, the facts are what they are and you have shown them correctly here. We were in the government then, and that is what I understand now. You know why, of course, and that is a bizarre observation. But politics can be very bizarre. The crowbar of the Flemings has been weakened by the victory of the Flemish Interest. I don't blame you for winning the election. That is, of course, your objective and I wish you every success in it. But I see what the result is, namely that so many tens of thousands of Flemish voices have become useless. I regret that. But that does not alter the fact that, of course, you follow your own political logic, and you have that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u8	Mr De Roover, it is not about interpretations. It's about determinations. At that time, you were sent to the electorate with great Community promises. You have won a great victory and because of the small Flemish interest the pressure has dropped and the call of power has been too great for you to work on it. It is because of the election victory that the Community theme is once again on the agenda today. Because your Community standstill has completely wiped out the support base itself. But now we have a Community part to play in this coalition agreement. I am therefore logically addressing the CD&V, because they have some regionalisations in their programme and because it is also thanks to them that there is at least something Community in this coalition agreement. Mr Verherstraeten, if I am mistaken, but CD&V is also in favour of regionalisation of health care as a homogeneous package of competences, as in 1999, as a fourth of the five resolutions in the Flemish Parliament, almost all Flemish parties were in favour of it. But that was never carried out. I read in interviews that Minister Geens made it clear that he was also in favour of homogeneous jurisdictional packages at Flemish level on justice, that that would improve the functioning and especially your party advanced it as one of the two breakpoints for government accession: the elaboration and partial realization of the state reform. My expectations were high. Because you weren't alone in that. When Egbert Lachaert was still fighting for the presidency of Open Vld, he openly advocated fiscal autonomy for the regions. Yes, there are more Communitys in the coalition agreement than at the time of the Michel government. Instead of just one paragraph, we now get five and a half pages. It is true what Mr De Roover said just now in his speech. It is short and it is not ambitious, but it is certainly longer and more ambitious than what was stated in the previous coalition agreement. If the CD&V is still concerned that as an unnecessary party in this Vivaldi coalition it would not have left its mark on this coalition agreement, then I can say that you can sleep on both ears. This chapter also breathes CD&V. It's all ambiguity, a big spread. It's full of them on the one hand, on the other. On the one hand, there is a desire to homogenise powers towards the Länder. On the other hand, federal asymmetric federalism is being pulled out of the hat in order to retain federal powers which should go to the Länder in the context of homogenisation. On the one hand, the transfer of health care to the Länder is put forward. At least part of it. So the fragmentation is not over. On the other hand, the coalition agreement contains numerous federal policy choices in this area, even with a horizon up to 2030. So that complete defederalisation is far from coming. On the one hand, it is said that the powers of the Länder will be respected. On the other hand, in hidden terms, there is re-federalisation under the code word efficiency and strengthening the impact of the federal level. Meanwhile, it has already been proved abundantly that the federal level cannot work efficiently. But we'll see what comes of that. On the one hand, a state reform is envisaged, but on the other hand, there is no guarantee that it will be effective. There is no clear direction as to what exactly it is about and where it will go. Mr De Roover has just mentioned the importance of this Community part. It was a corpse you can't reheat. An insult to the public that this problem is not being addressed. I've been listening very carefully, haven't I, colleague? That's exactly what you're saying. It could have come from my 2015 intervention perfectly. When you were talking about the appropriate way of passionate opposition, I even thought for a moment that it was about me, with a pun as we are used to yours. But I am certainly glad that this Community appetizer has come back. It's all vagueness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u9	Mr Pas, I thank you for your intellectual honesty, making a comparison between the government agreement of the previous government and the government agreement of the current government on the Community part. You say that there is much more in the Community part of this coalition agreement, that a direction has been agreed in the area of health care, that procedures have been agreed for what we are all going to do about this legislature. And you are right to point out that there are references to it on the left and right, not in that institutional chapter but in other chapters. But with two clear lines: one, respect for each other's powers, two, working well together. You are talking about the one hand and the other. On the one hand, to strengthen the autonomy of the regions. I hope that many Flemish nationalists, many democratic Flemish nationalists, will support that. On the other hand, you refer to the efficiency and effectiveness of the federal government as strengthening. What the hell is against the fact that a federal government is also efficient and powerful? We are responsible for people's pensions. We are responsible for their safety. We are responsible for collecting their taxes, so that they can be redistributed in a fair way. What the hell is against this happening efficiently and forcefully?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u10	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, I wish you every success if you think that a federal government, which has been experiencing for decades that it is working anything but efficiently, could still work efficiently... But don't be naive. You know perfectly well that this wording is the rewording of how it was formulated in the pre-formative note as "refederalisation'. Because make no mistake, all your other government parties interpret this differently. That was the point I wanted to make. With this state reform, as described in this coalition agreement, it can go all the way. The lines are not defined at all, which direction it should go, refederalise or regionalise. It is a completely unclear story on the one hand and on the other. That was the point I wanted to make. Thank you for making that clear. Mr Verherstraeten, there is no timing, there is no guarantee that this state reform will be implemented at all. The only thing that is clear, which is also literally stated in your coalition agreement, is that the billions flow through the transfers along the social security system, interpersonal solidarity, as it stands, is maintained in its entirety. Colleagues, in the text of the coalition agreement, the words'states','regions' and 'community' are often used 125 times in the context of cooperation. So that's one and a half times a page. Those homogeneous sets of powers seem to me to be far away in this period of government. By comparison, the words "language law" or "language obligation" did not have any hit, which are not even found in the text, and to "dotations" and "protocolary role of the royal family" I could not even use the search function. I already know the result. The government agreement states that pending proposals on abortion are referred to the Committee on Justice for further study and also that an independent committee would conduct a study of practice and legislation to work constructively afterwards, and I quote from your government agreement, in order to reach a consensus between the parties that are part of the government and not to proceed to a vote in anticipation. In other words, CD&V, you can't leave the government. Then there will soon be a consensus between the remaining government parties to implement that inhuman and unacceptable extension of the abortion period. You can't go anywhere. What will you be able to do in this government? It is incomprehensible that a party that is arithmetically superfluous for this purple-green construction, which, by the way, has been storming for eight years against a purple-green government for eight years, purple, purple, is not for nothing a suffocation phenomenon now in a re-release of purple-green, a re-release without a Flemish majority, is willing to degrade to the spare wheel of that purple-green vehicle, to a playball, to a totally irrelevant, to a mop. You're a hostage and you've been taken hostage and CD&V reminds me of Harry Van Oers. Harry Van Oers was an inspector-general of the Belgian prison system in 1993 and he spontaneously offered himself as a hostage to prevent innocent victims of an armed escape attempt by three gangsters, Philippe Lacroix and the cultural enthusiasts Rami and Murat Kaplan. I remember those very spectacular images when I was 12 years old. Van Oers was taken as a hostage from a sas in the Brussels prison of Saint-Gilles. But you, CD&V, you volunteered to be a hostage. After 27 years it happens again in this country, although this time it is not a heroic act but a cowardly act. Harry Van Oers survived that hostage situation, I'm not at all sure about the CD&V. Colleagues, I will continue with the coalition agreement. I will continue with the lack of a Flemish majority, because you have already heard a quote about the broken promises and statements made by our Prime Minister, but to close the Community section I would like to add three more quotes about the Flemish majority, the lack of Flemish majority in this government. Your party proved to attach importance to a Flemish majority in the federal government. A Flemish minority government, that will not pass. We will fight that on land, at sea and in the air, from De Panne to Opgrimbie. Words of Yves Leterme. A Flemish majority remains an important condition for us. Not my words, but Joachim Coens's. A Flemish majority is always and extremely important. Not my words, Mr Verherstraeten's. You were right then. Too bad you're getting back to that now. Colleagues, in the Prime Minister's statement of government, migration received two sentences. Two sentences. This shows the gap between the village street and the Wetstraat. It'll live with the population. They also signalled with the elections the need for a different migration policy, but unfortunately the competent Secretary of State has already announced that there will be no trend break with the past. He also announces a migration code like his predecessor. He also announces a firm return policy like his predecessor. But the latter is very remarkable, as the implementation of that announcement of that firm return policy is immediately undermined by the government agreement itself. It will be a story on the one hand and on the other. Because if the government is serious about raising the return figures, it would have done well to read the recent report by the Bossuyt Commission. There were comprehensive, objective lists of the shortcomings of the return policy and recommendations to make it more efficient and effective. But obviously it didn't happen. For your government immediately excludes two important and necessary instruments that allow for an efficient return policy. First of all, there is no provision for a possibility of residence and I know that CD&V would like that. In any case, they have already shown that. The Bossuyt Committee also considers that an essential element, but we have just heard the clear answer from Mr Calvo. It's not in the coalition agreement. So it won't be voted by the government parties. Secondly, it is announced that families with children will no longer be allowed in closed return centres pending their forced return. This sends out the signal that no family with children will ever be deported and that anyone who arrives in this country with children can stay. This will not only have an impact on return policy, but it will also have an unmistakable effect and make this country even more attractive to illegal migration from all corners of the world. As was the case in the Swedish Government, I fear that even Asylum and Migration will become a department, with a fast-talking secretary of state in the media becoming very well known, but the figures still point to more migration. What is not in the coalition agreement is significant. There is no real ambition to reduce immigration rates, not even illegal immigration. However, that is the express wish of the Flemish voters, not only in the election results of May last year, but also in almost every poll. The opposite seems to be the case. While nowhere is the intention proposed to stop this illegal influx, the government even wants to open up additional legal migration channels. That is certainly not the turnaround the electorate voted for on 26 May. In the area of justice and security, too, what is not mentioned in the coalition agreement is more significant. Security and justice were given six sentences in your government statement. I would much rather have heard, Prime Minister, that you had announced the abolition of conditional release, the abolition of class justice. But the payoff law remains untouched. A merger of the Brussels police zones. It is clear that Conner's content bomba does not live in Brussels, because that merger is not going to happen. No hard work on crime. The starting point for the new criminal law is that prison will only become the ultimate remedium. That too is not the turnaround that voters voted for on 26 May 2019. Do you think that voter chose discrimination tests by the social inspection? Do you think that the voter's signal was to increase the hunt for the racism ghost? I can tell you that. That is one of the few clear passages throughout the coalition agreement. The fight for diversity and against all forms of discrimination is given particular attention.The government also strengthens measures to combat disinformation and the spread of fake news. The seven mini-partys are therefore very similar when it comes to threatening freedom of expression. Christ, who in his time made the stupid talk, in Belgium they want to silence the speakers. If the message does not appeal to the regime, then they are shooting at that messenger, then they are throwing him off social media or perhaps they are going to prosecute him. I am not under any illusions. Belgium has never been a democracy worthy of that name. Liberalism and freedom is a long way to go under Alexander De Croo. Black times are coming for that freedom of speech. Prime Minister, you mentioned in your government statement how symbolic it is to discuss a federal government statement here in the European Parliament today. And you also stated here yesterday that this government is heading in a clear European direction. So don't worry about the gender diversity in your government. I know you listen blindly to two women: to von der Leyen and to Lagarde. You are on a clear European course. You even quoted Jean Monnet, one of the founding fathers of that European Union. We fully support the beautiful ideals underlying more passionate European cooperation. But the present European Union has nothing to do with the European ideal that would bring security, peace and prosperity to our continent. It has been a while, but I have read Monnet's memoirs, and I have not seen any evidence of a commitment to the undemocratic, super-centralised EU state that imposes on EU citizens a migration policy and climate policy for which they have not chosen but have to pay. I know that many of you are either not hindered by any knowledge of the facts, or deliberately want to give us the label 'anti-European'. That is easy, as there are no substantive arguments to be put forward, but nothing is less true. It is precisely out of love for Europe that we are such an EU-critical party. The European Union wants to impose on European citizens that Europe should be equal to that European Union or not without that European Union. Europe and the European Union are therefore all too often and deliberately confused by the urophils. But that's two completely different things. Europe is the cradle of our Western culture, the cradle of democracy, of classical freedoms. Culturally, Europe is a very diverse continent. A Dane is not a Greek, a Fleming is not a Waal. It is precisely because of the diversity between peoples, thanks to this unique diversity, the European wealth of cultures, peoples, traditions such as Saint Nicholas and Black Piet, that Europe has been able to become strong. "Diversity is strength," you said yesterday in your government statement. This diversity is indeed strong. This beautiful European patchwork, which has grown over the centuries, is a thousand times more valuable and livable than the artificial unitary sausage Verhofstadt and co have in mind. Europe is a beautiful continent. Europe is far too dear to allow it to sink into the swamp of regulation and to allow it to expand indefinitely until nothing remains of it. Prime Minister, you mentioned this European Parliament in your declaration of government, if I am not mistaken, the beating heart of democracy. It looked like an application for a European top job for the umpteenth Belgian Prime Minister, but I have to say: Yves Leterme, Michel, Verhofstadt and co. But labeling this hemisphere as the beating heart of democracy... Prime Minister, the European Union is an anti-democratic moloch. If legislation is adopted in Hungary or Poland which the European Union does not like, action cannot be taken quickly enough. But apparently these fundamental values, such as freedom of expression on which the European Union is built, are being applied very selectively. It is clear that they are very selective with the moral touch. This European Union remains deafeningly silent when it comes to political prisoners in Catalonia. In an EU Member State, Spain, people are being put in prison for years simply because they are trying to implement what was democratically elected in 2015. The execution of electoral promises is clearly not commonplace in this establishment. It is indeed a very symbolic place for today's debate, because here too, keeping promises is not a custom. Colleagues, on Sunday we saw a car caravan of concerned citizens who came to the Heysel from all over Flanders in their spare time to remind the political class of their electoral promises, to ask for respect for the will of the electorate. Yesterday we saw a procession of bricoleurs and marchandeurs who went over a promenade of broken election promises to the king to receive a minister's portfolio and drag their voters on a Belgian street with no end. And tomorrow, tomorrow, you're probably going to give confidence to the Vivaldi coalition that doesn't even trust itself. Then you will give the mandate to seven parties to continue muddling at the expense of the Flemings. The reckoning follows. Your French-speaking clients will not pay the bill. They don't have that habit here. I'm going to finish, and I'm going to give you, ladies and gentlemen, I've started with Vivaldi, I'm going to end with Vivaldi, and I'm going to give you what the end of Vivaldi looked like, according to the composer's biography. He died on 28 July 1741 in Vienna, sick, destitute and completely ignored by the public. And what would happen to Mozart only half a century later, in the same city, happened to once-rich Antonio Vivaldi. He was buried in a nameless grave, like a dog down the well. This Vivaldi coalition does not gain the confidence of the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, Mozart also died in a public grave. We still talk about it every day and his work will never disappear. I love Mozart. I also like Vivaldi as a musician. I'm sure I'll love him as a government. Mr Prime Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are gathered in this exceptional forum, it is that we are still fighting against coronavirus. We must remain vigilant, careful, supportive and attentive to the most fragile. Sophie Wilmès' government had been tasked to focus on this task. Many measures have been taken to care for the sick, support care services and facilitate front-line work. Maybe it wasn't all perfect. Our society is complicated and the virus was not known. Little by little, the contours are being identified, but our officials were there on the ground. Rapid and drastic measures have been taken to save our economy, support businesses, independents and SMEs. These efforts must be and will be continued by our new executive, as you recalled yesterday, Prime Minister. In this spirit, one of the first priorities will be to focus on our health care services. The crisis highlighted the need for sufficient and better-valued health workers. The first line is the keystone of our health management. Efforts have already been made and must be continued. We need structural improvement in the health sector. Recurrent budgets have been set up to ensure better remuneration, reduced workload and more permanent training. Resources will also be made available for mental health care. Hospital funding must be simpler and more transparent. It must operate within the framework of networks. In order to generate resources, we need to pay particular attention to controlling the budget allocated to medicines through effective use taking into account the needs of the population, of course, by empowering prescribers and increasing the share of medicines at better prices and biosimilars. With regard to crisis management, it is gratifying to see the appointment of a reference person appointed for one year in order to coordinate optimally the actions of the federal state and the federated entities. Good coordination and improvement of the effectiveness of our state must be a strength for the government's action. In addition to health security, the government agreement has a focus on security in general to meet the demands of the judiciary, which calls for refinancing for staff, computerization and buildings, as we all know. Attention will also be paid to improving access to justice for the most vulnerable litigants. To allow judges to be in sufficient numbers in decent premises, with adequate information technology means, to communicate internally only for the benefit of the accused, is the minimum necessary to be able to carry out an effective judicial mission. Modernity, accessibility and efficiency are the mainstays of the proposed reforms of the Criminal Code, criminal procedure and the enforcement of sentences. Although long-term, this work is indispensable, because it touches on the very foundation of our society and of what is called the rule of law. We need rapid sanctions through accelerated procedures, the enforcement of all sentences and the severity of repeat offenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u12	Mr President, in the coalition agreement there is an extension of the guaranteed package as far as the mutualities are concerned, but I do not think there are any glasses. It's a little hard. I've been waving around here for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u13	If you could perhaps stand here, Mrs Depoorter, you could see that it is very difficult to have that overview. One of the people has also alerted me to this. Make your point now instead of always making comments on everything and everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u14	Mr President, I do not think it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u15	I do not think it is necessary to make that comment either. I can only look where I can see and if you would stand here, you would see with me that that is not easy. I can't hear you, and I can't look around from left to right all the time. I'm asking for a little understanding of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u16	It was a joke, Mr. Chairman, but apparently the tension is pretty high.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u17	I'm not gonna wake up from laughing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u18	Mr Piedboeuf, I have heard about the renation of care. But I didn't read anything in the coalition agreement about the renation of home nurses. Are there any plans for that right now? For we all know that these people have made enormous efforts during the coronapandemic and that their remuneration is very limited. Then I have a second question about medication policy. You say we're going for a responsible medication policy. I have also read, and you said it yourself, that there will be a response from the prescribers. We'll agree to that. We need to work effectively on certain issues, such as the PPIs or antibiotics. However, I have also read that there is revenue on the other hand: EUR 250 million per year is entered in the budget by savings in the pharmaceutical sector. And now I would like to point out to you that the average annual excess over the pharmaceutical budget is 300 million. So we are actually going to talk about a delta of 550 million. How are you going to deal with this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u19	Thank you, ma'am. As far as home nurses are concerned, you will recall the lengthy discussions we held about the White Blouses Fund, in which we had also asked for budgets for home nurses, particularly for the self-employed. We agreed on a few principles, but we had a whole list of other principles that still needed to be agreed upon. We will, of course, come back to this because the budgets are reserved, but we have not yet found all the means to spend those budgets. So, of course, we need to go back to the subject, but that is our intention. As far as drugs are concerned, you know that we have ongoing discussions with the sector, which obviously needs to be paid attention because it is probably one of the sectors that invests the most in research in our country. It is one of the sectors that holds the highest positions of engineers, chemists and researchers. And we also know that when you contact the pharmaceutical sector, there is always a way to reach agreements. We will therefore continue the dialogue with the sector by respecting it, of course, because if we want to find new molecules, new ways of treating people, we must maintain this sector which, if not, will move elsewhere in the world, while it is, in our country, one of the best performing in Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u20	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, I hear you talking about the White Blouse fund, which is found in this Vivaldi agreement. I think it's worth remembering that this White Blouse fund was obtained by the healthcare staff, managed to pull it out of a hard struggle with, I must say, the help of an amendment introduced by the PTB and passed in extremis in plenary session. But I remember you and your party were against that White Blouse fund. And I remember that at the time, Mrs Wilmès, responsible for the budget, said that such an amount of 400 million euros was totally irresponsible. So that means that you finally put yourself in the position of the PTB, Mr. Piedboeuf?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u21	Mr. President, I very much like your humor. Mr. Van Hees, you know that. In fact, what is happening is that we did not agree, it was the alternative majorities that passed sometimes to the left, sometimes to the right, without any consideration for the budgetary balance and for the cost of these measures. It is clear that in terms of assistance to nurses, improved status and home nurses, we fully agreed. Only when you have a government that you all criticize because it was a minority, because it was not based on anything, you still have to have a certain rigor and a certain permanence in the future vision. And so deciding on spending without putting a budget behind – yes, the spending budget – but without providing for budgetary balance, it's not right. The government agreement, I have read with pleasure, no longer provides for an alternative majority. I'm obviously sorry for you and for the Vlaams Belang, you can abound in the sense of what we're going to offer you, but there's going to be more of an alternative majority and that makes it possible to maintain a balance and have a little healthier finances, that's it. We weren't against the bottom, obviously. I'll tell you frankly – and I can say it for my friends – but I've always been the case in my life, we always support the right ideas. But one must obviously have the means of his ideas and ambitions. I repeat, Mr President: modernity, accessibility and efficiency will be the key words in the proposed reforms to the Criminal Code, the criminal procedure and the enforcement of sentences. It will be a long-term task, I said, but it is indispensable because it touches on the very foundation of our rule of law. We need quick sanctions, accelerated procedures, enforcement of sentences and severity of recidivists, that's where I was. In addition, in consultation with the federated entities, the Government also intends to be able to put in place individualized detention plans immediately upon sentencing to ensure the reintegration of prisoners into society and to avoid recidivism. We are pleased to see that consideration will be given to the issue of prisoners who, at the end of their sentence, continue to pose a danger to society. The protection of our society requires a solution. It will be necessary to continue to deal with domestic and sexual violence, the training of police officers, the training of care services and the centres for dealing with sexual violence, as these tools are indispensable to respond to the scourge of violence, all the more intolerable since it is inflicted on the most vulnerable. For our police forces, the government plans on an annual basis to recruit 1,600 police officers and reform training to reduce the time between candidacy and effective engagement. The personal security of police officers and rescue workers will be improved, violence against them will be zero-tolerance: thorough analysis by the prosecutor's office, rapid translation before the criminal courts if there is physical violence. There can be no question of ranking without follow-up, impunity must be banished. Our internal security is paramount and is also being built outside our borders; our world is experiencing intense tensions all over the world: conflicts, of course, but also climate change and instability that lead to significant migratory phenomena and lead to alarming humanitarian crises. We must continue to defend common values. Our country, which occupies a place in the diplomatic world without any measure of its size, will continue to promote the constructive and ambitious vision of international cooperation. I am pleased that our Government today reiterates our country's commitment to strong multilateralism, which guarantees the protection of international law and the interests of countries of our size. We stress the importance of the United Nations as a forum for discussion and action. The UN Biodiversity Summit that opened this Wednesday is a new example of this universal scope: environmental protection and sustainable development must be taken into account in our future bilateral and multilateral commitments. In the area of security, we stress the special role of the Security Council. Belgium, during its presidency, through serious and important work, put several issues on the Council's agenda, including those of children in armed conflict and transactional justice. It also confirmed the importance of European cooperation within the Council. Even if our mandate ends in December, we will continue to contribute actively, materially and financially, to conflict prevention and the development of democratic institutions. We will also support all mediation initiatives in our multilateral and bilateral policies, both in the Middle East and Lebanon, Iran, Iraq and Syria in the Great Lakes and Sahel region. The coherence of our foreign, military and development policy needs to be strengthened; a strong national security policy is based on an ambitious and coordinated foreign policy. That is why we are pleased to see that the government agreement aims to be proactive in defence by reaffirming a commitment to an effective European defence that contributes to a real European strategy and autonomy while strengthening the European pillar within NATO. To this end, emphasis will be placed on a strong industrial base. Continued investment, participation in the European Defence Fund, participation in structured permanent cooperation are all opportunities for our companies and their recovery. In the area of employment, we are pleased to see that, after the substantial investments made by the Michel government, which will allow for the modernization of defence, the emphasis will be on Defence personnel. This will make the military profession more attractive and lead to better recruitment and retention. These investments are in line with the strategic vision for defence and the military programming law. In the field of employment in general, many emergency and business support measures have been taken in recent months, notably at the initiative of Minister Ducrame, in order to support employment as much as possible. But, according to some observers, perhaps the worst is yet to come. That is why the revival will be a guiding thread of this government: an electroshock is needed to strengthen our economy and turn it towards the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u22	Mr Piedboeuf, I hear you saying that you will be fully committed to this bilateral and multilateral cooperation. This is also evident from the coalition agreement, but if there is one thing for which this cooperation can deliver a great deal, then it is for jobs. And I still think it's very important for you liberals too. People expect Europe to contribute to this job creation. But then I see in the coalition agreement what it says about trade agreements, which are very important for those jobs, when one job in three depends on exports. It is said that Belgium will be a reliable partner in ratifying these trade agreements, but then there will be a whole series of conditions; and if all these conditions are to be met, then these trade agreements will no longer be ratified. Hence my question to you: will you ratify these trade agreements, I am thinking of the Mercosur agreement and the agreement with Mexico as a government, yes or no? And if you don't, you'll really be playing with the Flemish prosperity here. You know, if you put pressure on the prosperity of the Flemings, you will put pressure on the prosperity of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u23	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, I would like to hear you explaining defence. You know, when I hear Defense, I'm always interested and focused. You say yes, it is important that we continue to invest in Defence and I think that with the Swedish coalition we have finally managed to achieve this trend: EUR 9 billion in the law, EUR 9 billion in investments. I think that is a very good thing and that we should go further in this direction. A question has been asked about the input of EUR 2.4 billion in the next legislative period of additional investment. I've requested that, but I have to say that I'm actually getting very little information. I don't see that in the one-pager I got from the Prime Minister either. So my question is: what will the public investments be in Defense in the coming years? I come to EUR 0.664 billion for the entire legislature, Mr De Croo. And that would be the last in EUR 200 million in 2024. Can that be explained again? What's the deal with that? That's one. Secondly, I think it is very important that the investments that have been ordered should also be carried out. As you know, in the bosom of the government, Mr Piedboeuf, we have had a long and intense discussion about the nuclear capacity, the dual use of our F-35 aircraft ordered. Will that continue? Will we continue to assume our nuclear responsibility within NATO, a very important pillar, as you know. We have SHAPE here, we have headquarters here, and of course we have a lot of jobs here, especially in Wallonia. My question is, will we continue with that nuclear capacity as part of the F-35 procurement? The third question, Mr President, concerns the mandate of our F-16 Members. They left for Syria and Iraq this week. Will we again assume our responsibility in the fight against international Islamism, international terrorism? There has been a lot of debate about it and the parties on the left have said that this mission in Syria is not legitimate. There is no international legal framework for this. It is stated in the coalition agreement that in future contracts can only be made subject to a final international legal framework. My question, very clearly to you: is the MR behind the mission in Syria and if that mission is still going on, that military order against IS, against Daesh in Syria if we do so and an extension is requested, among other things by the international partners of Operation Inherent Resolve and thus of America, will we then extend it or have an agreement been made within the government to stop it and not have an order in Syria anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u24	Thank you for these questions. I love them all the more because they're not my favorite subjects, so there's no problem. As far as trade agreements are concerned, it is clear that there is always a whole series of debates about trade agreements: there are people going down the street, there are civil society expressing themselves, and it must be said, most of the time there are a whole series of people expressing themselves, but who have not read international agreements. I myself was surprised, in some debates in which I participated in civil society, in 11 11 11 etc., how some did not know the exact contents and detours of international agreements. We realize that most of the time these agreements – although, of course, they must be negotiated in relation to some of the aspects, because neither can we organise external competition in relation to our business activities and activities at home – most of these agreements allow, as you say very well, to develop international trade. It is true that it is important for Flanders, probably more, of course, than for Wallonia, but it is important for our country. When one sees the functioning of the ports, especially the port of Antwerp, when one sees the operation of the aerodromes, with now even small Walloon aerodromes that are beginning to have great ambitions, one realizes that international agreements are often positive. So I can't tell you if we're going to ratify them all. There will have to be a debate between us and we will have to see what we can endorse, which we can also make change in the context of the discussions, because these are often lengthy discussions and we also manage to raise them in quality in this context. So yes, in general, international agreements must certainly be studied and defended to the extent that they allow the development of our activity. As far as military matters are concerned, it must be said that all the investments made during the 'Swedish' have been decided, a part has already been implemented, but we have not yet implemented everything. The economic impact of such development and investment is therefore still under way and will continue for a few years. What is now provided for in the government agreement and in the budget – but is a government declaration, so it is not as precise as an annual budget – plans to continue investments, so it is positive. Is that enough, is that too much? We will see, also according to the means that will be released, but the will is always to invest in our army, to maintain a quality army, to maintain an army of professionals. I therefore reassure you on this point, there is absolutely no desire to suppress or reduce the quality of our army, all the more so as we defend the advent of a European vision. So it is clear that it is easier to fit into an international, European framework – it is too late to come, it must be said, as many things are slow to come at European level – but we also have, both in Europe and in NATO or elsewhere, international commitments, and we must fulfil them, these commitments. You talked about F16 and international missions, we have international commitments, we have to live up to our commitments. I don't know if we're going to equip the planes with nuclear equipment. I can't answer you. I assume that our new defence minister will certainly plunge into the subject; if we have commitments, we will keep them. As far as recovery is concerned, I was talking about a dynamic and prosperous framework as a key to success. The first key element concerns the 1996 Act. The government has decided that it is necessary to maintain it as we know it since its reform in 2017. This will be the only way to maintain the competitiveness of our companies. The government made a choice. All art, of course, will be to find a balance between competitiveness and purchasing power. Our labour market also seems paralysed, I must say. During the crisis, companies turned to the safety nets made available by the State: temporary unemployment for force majeure, right-of-way or carry-over, reductions or even suspensions of contributions. These measures have preserved the purchasing power of workers and self-employed people, but despite this, workers are unemployed, job opportunities are declining, businesses are in a state of distrust and are in a state of uncertainty, and certain occupations are still in a state of shortage. Today, our labour market is fighting to be reborn. It is our duty and the responsibility of the government to take responsibility for restoring confidence in both companies and workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u25	Mr Piedboeuf, you have just said that economic revival is the common thread throughout the entire coalition agreement. And indeed, there is mainly talk of an investment in the green economy, a kind of new economy, which would have a certain multiplier effect. As you know, there are a lot of companies in the regular economy today that are having a very difficult time, a lot of companies that are threatening to go bankrupt. If we look at the multiplier effect, which sectors of these regular companies will benefit from it? And then I have a second question for you. If you say that economic revival is the central theme: the National Bank again communicated last month that consumer confidence is very low and continues to fall, which means that the aggregate demand in this country will continue to fall, which will ultimately lead to a fall in the overall price level and thus further difficulties for more companies. What are you going to do to maintain this overall price level in the future and to ensure that aggregate demand remains in line with aggregate supply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u26	I am not sure if I understood the first question correctly, but you mentioned the development of the green economy and asked which companies would benefit from it. Well, all the companies that develop the green economy! And there are many in our country. There is also one area of research that is particularly interesting. So I didn't understand the question you were asking. With regard to the economic recovery and the opinion of the National Bank, I think that one of the first factors for the return of confidence is, first, the formation of a government. For all these last months, we were always complaining about the fact that we were unable to govern, that we had no more majority and that it was not all right. But now, with a 'Vivaldi', which we love or do not like – and a 'Vivaldi' which, in spite of everything, represents a majority of our Parliament, which never gives pleasure to those who are not, but it is a majority, it imposes on everyone – I believe that just as a result, the lines of power that have been defined, the agreement on economic development in innovation, in sustainable development, in the new lines of development of our society, are effects that will certainly be able to gradually restore confidence. It is clear that part of the mistrust or lack of leadership of the population and businesses also comes from the health context, of course. It seems that things are moving well, because we have seen that at the beginning of the crisis people were being treated, in a certain way, without knowing exactly how to do it, which has caused a lot of deaths, whereas now we realize that we have been able to better treat people, and therefore the mortality rate is lower. If things continue like this, the population will gradually regain confidence, regain a social life, knowing that social life, its contacts, festive life, all this also does a lot for the morale of people. And if we talk about price developments, actually, if there is less demand, there is a fall in prices, but all the work is precisely to revive demand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u27	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, you have raised the second point that I find painful in this government agreement, namely the maintenance of the 1996 Competitiveness Act. I don't understand. After the crisis of the VOCID-19, during which we applauded all those workers who continued to work, during which we said that there would be another world after the crisis, we still have to value the efforts of all these workers and therefore allow them to negotiate wage increases. So I do not understand that a government, which also includes left-wing parties, has refused to return to this law with the worsening, because of your government, of not giving any more wage margins. Recently, that was 1.1%. Ladies and gentlemen, do you find it normal that, in a country like Belgium, standards are about to disappear completely for the social partners to discuss? However, Mr Piedboeuf, as a Liberal, you should normally be a supporter of the supply and demand law, i.e. in each sector of a negotiation based on an offer of work and a demand for work. I note that you, the Liberals, are in favour of liberalism on all aspects of the market except on one, a somewhat particular commodity: the labour force. There, it is not supply and demand that play, but a political, authoritarian, intrusive decision in the market. In other words, no sector or company can negotiate above this standard. The free market disappears when it comes to discussing workers' wages. Well, Mr Piedboeuf, in view of the months and years ahead, why don't you give us the freedom to discuss wage increases in sectors, in companies? And do you persist in maintaining a law that completely locks up all forms of social consultation in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u28	I thought Mrs. Fonck wanted to interview. As far as the 1996 law is concerned, you are taking...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u29	Mr Anseuw, Mr Van Lommel first asked a question, then Mr Hedebouw. I leave Mr Piedboeuf, who gets a lot of questions, answers, questions per question. 'Cause if you don't, it's gonna get all messed up. So please sit back in your seat, I won't forget you. Your name is listed here by three people. I'm not gonna forget you. You've probably been through something bad once, but I'm not gonna forget you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u30	Mr Hedebouw, you take as a reference the Corona crisis by saying that, because of the crisis, workers should be allowed to obtain wage increases, if only the Corona crisis, it did not affect only Belgium. It has spread to all the countries around us and far beyond. The situation and the reaction of each of the countries are, of course, a condition for the functioning of our small country: from the moment we do not align ourselves with growth, prices, remuneration in neighbouring countries, we no longer have enough competitiveness to maintain our economic activity properly. As we have seen in recent years – you are also criticizing us on this – we have been able to reduce this difference and the margins of difference with our neighbours, allowing us to revive our economy. As we see – and, in my opinion, it will be a topic of discussion in the coming months – simply with the excise duty, if we increase the excise duty at home by saying that everything will be fine, everyone goes to the other side of the border to make their purchases. I know that there are increases in excise duties that may be reflected, perhaps, but we will have to think about how we stand in relation to this type of tax, in relation to neighbouring countries, because otherwise we are destroying our economy. The 1996 law that we like or don't like – it was brought by the left, but we changed it, it's true, recently, in 2017 – makes it possible to restore competitiveness. And once prosperity has been restored, it is clear that everyone will be able and will have to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u31	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I hope you'll forgive me for being somewhat on my qui-vive. That's not because I've ever experienced something bad, but I did hear something bad from my group leader not so long ago when there was a debate about trusting the Wilmès II government. So forgive me for being on my qui-vive today. But I have not to complain, I have been given the floor, for which I am grateful. Mr Piedboeuf, there is indeed some uncertainty about the wage standard law. The Member of the Labour Party has just asked a question about it, has given his reading of the passage on it in the coalition agreement. However, I have another reading of it. That's why I want some clarity. It says that this standard wage law is maintained as amended and reformed by the Swedish Government. But there is also something behind it, provided that the maintenance or achievement of some balance between purchasing power on the one hand and competitiveness on the other, while the competitiveness of our companies is just as important to maintain that purchasing power and thus those jobs in our country. I don't really see the contradiction between the two. So I have the simple question to ask you: can you confirm that the wage standard law as it has been reformed will be kept in its entirety by the Swedish Government, but above all that it will not be undermined by other tricks of the foor, such as by sending letters or do I know what else? Can you confirm that there is no way in which that will be compromised?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u32	It is indeed enshrined in the government agreement. When we talk about – and I think I also mention it in my text – that we need a good balance between competitiveness and purchasing power, there is another aspect that allows us to work on purchasing power: it is precisely the zero-rating of low incomes. So when we talk about raising wages, there's a way to increase them too: it's to lower the tax burden on the lowest incomes. We don't increase them. It is like the whole debate on the pension between the gross and the net: if the gross remains the same, but taxes are reduced on the lowest instalments, the purchasing power is increased. Thus the retention of the 1996 law to maintain competitiveness does not prevent us from being able to work on purchasing power by other means. When we talk about establishing a subtle balance between the two, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Piedboeuf, I would like to go back to your remarks about the Covid-19 crisis. You said here, "At first, we weren't treating patients well and it created dead people." I think your comments on caregivers are particularly shocking, I'm telling you. Now people would have died because the caregivers wouldn't have taken care of them well. I hope your remarks have exceeded your mind. May I remind you that many countries have recorded far fewer deaths. Because these countries have not minimized the situation, as Belgium has done, because these countries have taken much stronger and faster decisions and measures, because they have strategic stocks of protective equipment, because these countries have put in place testing, tracing and isolation of positive cases in a much faster manner. Then, if your remarks have exceeded your mind, the case will be closed. Otherwise, I hope you will measure that what you said is particularly indecent. There you are, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u34	Mr. President, thank you, Mrs. Fonck. I'm used to your speeches in the health committee. That's why I'm not going to the health committee anymore. I'd like to tell you, Mrs. Fonck, that my daughter is also a doctor. She treats patients every day. In addition, the Director General of ISPPC in Charleroi, Michel Dorigatti, is a personal friend and I am closely involved in the activities of all hospitals in the province of Luxembourg. And when these people told me, "You know, at the beginning of the corona, we didn't know what to do, we were told not to use this, while now we do it and it cures," well these people tell me the truth. What's the truth? We didn't know what to do, Mrs. Fonck. We didn't know and the caregivers didn't know what to do. Have you ever watched social media? Have you seen all the crazy scientists who have ideas all the time? We didn't know what to do, because we didn't know about this virus. And it's the same all over the world. This was discussed with the Taiwanese who warned WHO in January. And WHO, which is protected by some, did not want to listen to what Taiwan was saying. And the agencies that deal with this have sometimes been wrong. It is therefore not the caregivers who are responsible, it is the lack of knowledge of the virus that did not allow the caregivers to know what to do at certain times. It's amazing what you're saying, hallucinating.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u35	Mr President, it may annoy you a little, but I am making a commendable attempt to be somewhat worthy of my money.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u36	I don't mind you annoying me at all. That's what I'm here for. But perhaps you can also think of your fellow Members who also want a smooth debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u37	Yeah, that's good. Mr Piedboeuf, thank you for your reply. My concern is indeed the competitiveness of our companies, and I had hoped that this would be yours. But you have made a great deal of clarity in your answer. Now you have not answered: yes, we will continue to apply it fully, this Swedish reform. You have actually left an opening to undermine it, and so I am holding my heart for the competitiveness, purchasing power and jobs in our country. And I understand that less and less when we see that there is no labour market reform in the government agreement. If we now have to find out again from, among other things, the answers that you give, that the Swedish reforms are even being reduced or at least reduced, then I do hold my heart for the purchasing power of the people in our country, for the jobs and for the competitiveness of our companies. This is truly regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u38	Mr President, I regret to say that you have not listened to me. I said exactly: "the government has decided that it is necessary to maintain it as we know it since its reform in 2017" and I added "this will be the only way to maintain the competitiveness of our companies", so to your question, the answer is yes. In the project presented to us, the recovery will inevitably involve maintaining our competitiveness, reforming the labour market and further reducing taxes on labour, mainly on low and medium wages. That's where I told you that there must be a balance between competitiveness and purchasing power. It will also involve strengthening the training of workers throughout their careers, through a training account, further harmonisation of schemes, the development of e-commerce, or encouraging the mobility of workers to jobs in need. With regard to social consultation, your Government, Prime Minister, wishes to continue a constructive dialogue with the social partners. It will allow reasonable time for them to reach agreements in accordance with budgetary rules and political guidelines. In addition, your Government will honour a better reconciliation between work and private life, with particular attention to single-parent families. Leave plans will be simplified. Harmonisation and optimisation of leave will be launched. An extension of the period of close care is also planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u39	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, you went through the tax chapter very quickly. I thought you were gonna... You'll come back after that? All right, I intervened too early then. But Mr Piedboeuf, you will probably tell us that no new tax will be introduced. Is that what you were going to tell us? So I'm just a little ahead of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u40	[[You're wrong, I'll tell you.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u41	Well, listen, Mr. President, maybe I'll just wait, then. Why intervene before Mr. Piedboeuf announces this good news? But will you give me the floor just now, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u42	But let the speaker continue from time to time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u43	Or do I intervene now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u44	Mr President, it would be better to bring the questions together at the end, and that would save us time. In the area of work organisation, more flexibility and feasibility will have to be sought. To this end, you will continue the work to combat stress and burn-out, building on the findings of the pilot projects. Telework will be promoted within an inter-professional framework, which aims at both flexibility and protection of workers. The government also intends to work on the accessibility of career accounts and the right to disconnect for each worker. As regards associative work, there is also a question of introducing new regulations before 2021. This will be organised in consultation with the sector concerned. In order to achieve employment rate targets, it will also be necessary to focus on the inactivity of certain more vulnerable groups and to combat job traps. Therefore, we will have to work to prevent the influx to work disabilities and to promote the reintegration of long-term patients. Based on the recommendations of the NTC, a positive and multidisciplinary approach should be adopted and diversity promoted within companies with awareness, follow-up and adaptation of test situations. With regard to persons with disabilities, financial thresholds should be removed by reducing the price of love, as it is called, and the price of work. We will also work on entrepreneurship among people with disabilities. Finally, older workers will not be forgotten as the end-of-career schemes will be adapted to increase the effective length of their careers. Together, these tools will help to establish an efficient, structured and dynamic labour market with an ambitious target of 80% employment rates by 2030. I cannot prevent myself, of course, as my colleague Laaouej did, from mentioning a dossier which I have always followed closely, which I know well and which concerns the status of artists. For many years, we have been advocating for a far-reaching reform of the statute. Over the past few weeks, we have come with concrete proposals agreed with the sector in order to provide real opportunities and security for these thousands of cultural workers, who participate in the international reach of our country. The cultural sector has its full place in our economy and brings a certain added value. We must be able to value it. I am pleased to see that this reform is prominent in the government's agreement. An advanced society cannot afford to neglect those who bring to it the flavor of life, the elevation, the quality of life and the sharing of values, emotions, critical spirit and self-derision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u45	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, you have just said that, as stated in the coalition agreement, you want to go to an activity rate of 80% by 2030. But how do you see it by 2024? Where will we be at that moment? 'Cause I'm assuming you'll make interim evaluations, won't you? And two, to go back to my question just now that you did not understand: there is talk in the government agreement of a multiplier effect because of a number of public investments that will happen. However, I would like to know in particular which sectors of the economy or which types of companies are in difficulty today will benefit from these investments in this multiplier effect. Those are two very specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u46	They are concrete, but they are still not precise. But good. It's like the net pension at 1500 euros: it's a goal. It is a goal to be achieved. During Swede's dismay, a whole series of measures were put in place, which were criticized a lot but which produced effects in job creation. We did not always agree on the origin of the creation of these jobs. Some said, "This is the economic context." When the economic context is good and you create jobs, you say, "It's because of the economic context," and when it goes wrong, you say, "It's the government's fault." But there were measures that have been taken and that have increased this employment rate. Since then, we have had the Corona crisis that has really affected our economy, but it is clear that the recovery, the maintenance of measures – because the measures that have been taken will be maintained – are of course likely to improve this employment rate. All the measures concerning training, the suitability of workers for the jobs in need, all these are elements which are likely to favour this rate of employment. So when you say, "There are companies in difficulty. Which firms in difficulty will benefit from the investments planned by the government?", It is clear that while the axes are axes of sustainable development, for example, all companies that can benefit from investments in sustainable development, it is companies that, working in sustainable development, are in difficulty. I don't know how to say things differently. Public investment will benefit companies that are in line with public investment. There are some who are in trouble, some who are not. During the crisis, there are companies that have done very well and there are others that have been in difficulty. Therefore, public investment will benefit companies working in the sector that is targeted by public investment. I cannot finish on employment without mentioning entrepreneurship, the work of the self-employed and the companies that are the engine of our economy, which are value-creating and job-providing. My group and all the partners will invest in support missions through six axes: competitiveness, taxation, combating social dumping by extending the "zero contribution" measure, accessibility of public procurement through administrative simplification, working towards fair competition between Belgian and foreign companies in compliance with the law by organising the same controls for all. The second pillar focuses on improving social status and supporting entrepreneurship. We will continue to improve this status also for those who are active in the platform economy. We will work to reduce the tax on self-employed persons subject to the PPI and we will value all social contributions from the first euro for supplementary self-employed persons. We will continue to upgrade the pensions of the self-employed by phasing out the correction coefficient for career years in the future. The third pillar concerns late payment. The goal will be to combat late payments, and the government will make arrangements to make its own payments without delay – that's obviously the least of all. On the other hand, the State must be at the side of its enterprises and the administration must become a partner. The first step will be administrative simplification, which is the fourth pillar on which work will focus. The ambitious objective is to reduce administrative burdens by 30%. It's been talking about administrative simplification for years, and when you're on the ground, you don't always feel like it's coming. So we're really gonna have to get to it. The fifth pillar will be to arm our businesses for international development. Finally, the sixth agreement is to provide a sectoral approach to the development of our SMEs, from female entrepreneurship to artists, from the fight against unfair commercial practice to the support of cooperative models. The government rightly proposes a sectoral approach as the most appropriate response. The challenges to be met are many but indispensable, they will be a factor in the recovery of the economy. Tomorrow's social security will be forward-looking, strong, effective, inclusive, innovative and sustainable. The government led by Alexander De Croo will therefore work towards the harmonisation of the schemes, will continue the fight against social fraud and black work, will ensure the balance of the social security system. All this is obviously in the right direction in order to ensure the sustainability of our social security. Employment remains the best bulwark in the fight against poverty, but also a factor of social emancipation. That is what we have been working on for many years, not to mention those who suffer, those who are excluded from the labour market, those who depend on the last safety nets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u47	Mr President, I apologise for having to ask each question twice, but I myself find it very annoying. However, I think it is rather essential and particularly essential that I should be able to understand the ambition of this government in terms of its effectiveness in 2024. There is talk of 80% in 2030. I would like to know where this government wants to end up in this context in the medium term. I think that is a very specific question which can also be answered in a very specific way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u48	Indeed, concrete action. You know, 31 years ago I made budgets for policy statements, and when we set targets, we try to get there. If it's about trying to predict the future, it's 2020 and telling you what the employment rate will be in 2024, I'm totally unable to do that, of course. I'm sorry to tell you, but it's a stupid question: who can say what the employment rate will be in 2024? It's impossible. It is true that by 2030, we have a target of 80% that we know is ambitious, that it will be difficult to achieve. The economy has already to get back on track, so knowing what the employment rate will be in 2024, I can only tell you that in 2024. To specific question, precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u49	Mr. Piedboeuf, would you like to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u50	You want me to close?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u51	Yeah, well, you can go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u52	I've got a little more. Can I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u53	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u54	I'm only eighteen minutes away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u55	You've been here an hour and a quarter, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u56	But it's the speeches...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u57	...you spoke 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u58	There you go, so I still have at least 42. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u59	You have an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u60	As far as purchasing power is concerned, the commitment is made – I will speed up – to increase the net wage, mainly of low and medium incomes – as I have already said – through tax and parafiscal measures, to gradually raise social minimums, to raise pensions. And before anyone asks me the question, we obviously leave to get to 1500 euros net, we have to start from 1,500 euros gross, which is already a first step. Then, depending on the evolution and the increase in tax reductions, indeed – as my colleagues have explained – we will try to reach 1500 euros net, that's the goal. It's like the employment rate in 2030: we set ourselves a target and we're doing the most to get there, so we're raising pensions. Minimum working incapacity will be advanced from seven to two months for better protection. We must continue to avoid job traps for people with disabilities, I have already mentioned. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government will make available to the social partners, the welfare envelope and an additional budget. In the fight against poverty, the Government has decided to work with federated entities and experience experts with particular attention to child poverty and single-parent families. The process will be proactive, requiring an active and early detection of poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u61	I'm sorry, but now it's Mr. Van der Donckt who wants to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u62	I'm very short. I can understand, of course, that you do not have a glass ball when it comes to effectiveness. By 2024 it's hard to estimate it. But apparently you do have that glass ball when it comes to the minimum pensions of EUR 1,500. I have also just put a question on behalf of the Conner bomba to Mr Laaouej and the bomba, which apparently follows these debates very interestedly, and she has sent me a question, because she said: I did not really understand it quite well. Somehow she had understood that the EUR 1,500 was net, according to Mr Laaouej. Now, I'd like to reflect that question on you, too. How do you see that, bearing in mind the remarks made by your President on that point? And three, since you seem to have a glass ball on pensions, how many people are going to be able to use it in 2024? And of course, will that be in 2024? And a question that I would like to put to you in addition, because you are a liberal and they are supposed to be able to count well (well, I have always been told that)... If you have studied economics, you will save and often go to the liberals. The self-employed, who can all count well, are also many people who, in the past, voted for the liberals. Who's gonna pay for that party anyway, because I hear all kinds of reports about it. I'm a simple lawyer. One speaks of 3.6 billion, and then it's only 2.3 billion. So can you shed some light on that? And I'm asking on behalf of Conner's bomba.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u63	Mr. President, we'll hear, I'm a lawyer, too. And the lawyers when they talk, it can last a long time and you don't always see it very clearly. I apologize for my legal friends, but when they're on a board of directors, we see how it's going. Well, then let's explain again: what my party president said is that the net pension at 1,500 euros costs three billion. Is there three billion planned now? No, there are not currently three billion planned; there are planned spending, there are planned increases, in a whole series of areas, but there is currently no provision in the budget for a net pension immediately of EUR 1,500, no. That's why I'm saying we have to start with the crude. When you raise the pension to a gross of 1,500, you're already making an effort. If, by means of the tax action, with the revenue that will have to be found – I suppose Mr Laaouej... pardon, Mr Laaouej was before, Mr van Hees will ask me the question – if, with tax reductions, we manage to increase the net by raising the tax ceilings, we will gradually move towards a net pension that will be gradually approaching 1,500 euros. Ahmed Laaouej told you, in relation to the beneficiaries, it depends on the individual situation of each, it depends on the years of career it depends on a whole series of parameters. A government that settles, it's like in a commune or in a province: it sets goals and it has to calibrate its action in order to try to achieve them. When we were together in 'Swedish', we set targets, we achieved a number, we didn't achieve all of them. Sometimes we talked about the fight against tax fraud, we also had targets, we also had revenues that were provided for in the budget, and then we realized that sometimes they were half of what we had hoped for. So we set ourselves a vision to get there, but I'm not able to tell you, not just because I'm a lawyer, but because, indeed, we don't know how to say such an hour there will be 1,500 euros net. It's a road and we have to get there, it's like the employment rate; we set targets. Who can say how long this pandemic will continue? No one can tell. If we restart the economy in two months or if we restart it in a year, it will change all the numbers, so I'm sorry but neither as a lawyer nor as an economist, I can't answer you more precisely. I will try to be more concise, but I cannot ignore Mr. Van Hees. I have already addressed the fight against poverty. In order to achieve the objectives, specific attention will be paid to energy poverty, collective debt settlement – including health debt – to psychological aid and homelessness. To achieve these objectives, CPAS, as we know, are central players. The Government will encourage them to provide additional financial support to low-income households. This additional financial support will involve beneficiaries in a custom activation process. Finally – and this is important – an assessment of social and tax regulations will be launched to measure the level of adaptation to current forms of common life. I can't close this part of the social side without talking about pensions. Throughout his term of office, the Minister of Pensions, my colleague Daniel Bacquelaine, undertook three tasks: the harmonization of pension rights schemes, a greater correlation between the actual career and the amount of the pension, and the revalorisation of pensions. The will of the new government extends the previous ambitions, despite the many challenges related to the cost of aging and – I join you – it will not be easy, because we know how the cost of aging is changing. In addition, Mr Vandenbroucke, who will be returning to the government, had already announced it some 15 or 20 years ago. It is important to keep workers on the labour market as long as possible. We will therefore work on both the end-of-career arrangements, the inactivity traps under a survivor's pension, and the part-time pension. In recent years, the lowest pensions have been revalued many times. One of the government's objectives remains to achieve a gradual amount of EUR 1,500 for a full career. (I pass a few paragraphs.) Social and economics also means taxation. Fair and optimal taxation must make it possible to finance new policies. To this end, the government will prepare a tax reform aimed at simplifying and modernizing our tax system and making it more equitable and neutral. The reform's guiding principles include reducing the burden on labour, broadening the tax base, but without increasing the overall tax burden, simplifying IPPs and legal certainty. The government will also promote reconciliation between private and professional life through taxation. A form of digital taxation must be put in place. Our country will take the lead in discussions on this matter at the international level. The fight against tax fraud will continue. The government will work to improve our public finances. This will be a reasonable sanitation, with a balance between recovery and sanitation. No new taxes on the middle and working classes or savers: the work of a life must be preserved and respected. Modern taxation must also encourage investments that remain essential for the economic and social development of our country. They have a direct positive impact on economic activity, as well as on growth potential. They accelerate growth and create more prosperity, which also contributes to the sustainability of public finances. Our country therefore needs a clear and stable investment plan over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u64	So, Mr Piedboeuf, you tell us: "no taxes for the popular classes". No new tax will be introduced, as stated in the Vivaldi agreement. I understand, but when I read the budget chapter of the Vivaldi declaration, I see that the effort will be divided into three and a third of the effort will come from taxation. On the one hand, I read "no taxes" and on the other hand, I read "a third comes from tax". There, I need an explanation. When looking at the budget table, it is not very detailed: nothing for expenditure and some revenue elements for budgetary effort. And what do we see in taxation? EUR 1.2 billion. So, for you, zero tax is 1.2 billion euros in taxes. Moreover, when we look at who is going to pay these taxes, we realize that of this 1.2 billion, 750 million euros, or most of them, come from the consumption tax. You say that the popular strata are not affected by these taxes, but it is the taxes on consumption that most heavily and harshly affect the popular classes. Finally, what is the tax record of this policy? All I'm talking about here is what's planned now. Then we know that tax fraud is cream pie, it's going to fall. It will therefore have to be compensated. The magical revival and the return effect is also cream pie which will have to be compensated again by new taxes. Finally, what's left? It is the population that pays, as usual, as under Swedish. There's this famous "tax on broad shoulders," but this one I'm looking for. Where is it in your budget table, this tax on the broad shoulders? I've looked at it a few times, but I don't see it. What does that mean? That in the Vivaldi negotiations, on the tax side, you, the Liberals, have won. That's right. Are you happy, finally, that you won against the left, who said, "We're going to tax the rich"? Can you consider it a victory when we see that this tax does not appear and when we read in the press that the tax on the broad shoulders will rise to a maximum of 300 million euros...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u65	... and 300 million euros is less than the security account tax, so less than what the right-wing government – Sweden – had done. So, can we say that you won these negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u66	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, I would like to take this up. For both Liberal Presidents, it was a matter of honour that no new taxes would be accepted in this coalition agreement. You have said this repeatedly, Mr President, but also the other Liberal President. And certainly no added value tax, certainly no impact tax, certainly not the communist programme the N-VA would have prepared with the PS. Now, when I read the coalition agreement and when I have just heard Mr Laaouej, I think that the Liberals were perhaps working on other things during the negotiations on the taxation chapter. Because there is a lot of conditionality in the coalition agreement, but something is very affirmative in it, and that is that a proposal for a capital tax will be put forward at the next budgetary control. That's literally what it says. So I am not going to elaborate on all the other taxes that will have to be accepted in the course of the legislature. However, I would like to have some explanation of the discrepancy between what certain Presidents and other Presidents say about this added value or capital tax. Is there going to be a power tax in 2021? What's he gonna look like? And what is the budgetary estimate of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u67	Mr President, I am glad to hear Mr. Van Hees speaks of "cream tart" in relation to the revenue of the fight against tax fraud. When it comes to cream pie, you tighten it quite often with the tens of billions that escape us. If there are tens of billions that escape us, I can tell you that our will, as well as that of the partners, has always been to catch them. You probably have more genius than we do in this area, but all the measures we are putting in place, all the investigations we are conducting, including everything we have seen in special commissions, etc., do not always allow us to go and find the amounts you are announcing as being lost. I do not know whether the amounts that are missing in nature are the amounts of income from these capitals, or whether they are the amounts of capital. There's a big soup that's made in relation to that. As far as the increase in tax revenues is concerned, there is obviously, as I said, an enlargement of the tax base. When we say we don't want a new tax, we're talking about new taxes on work, pensions, low income, that's what Sweden did. I know it bothers you, but that's how it is. When we talk about increasing pensions, it also means increasing the amount of income exempt from taxes, it means increasing the occupational costs. I can't explain it to you better than the way we explain it to you all the time. With regard to the announced wealth tax, I would first like to cut the wings off to a duck. As you know, the property tax exists in our home, in the property discount, in the registration fees, in many forms. You can't say you don't tax property in our country, that's not true. The tax you're dreaming about, which is called "millionaire tax," we've seen what it brings back in France. If we bring the French recipe back to the size of our country and to the millionaires who live there, I don't know how we're going to get to the figure you're announcing. On the other hand, the idea of tax justice, i.e. a balance and a contribution that is more in line with the income or capital of some, is something that needs to be carefully considered and adjusted. We all agree that the one who has little contributes little, while the one who has much has to contribute much. When we talk about a recipe – there was indeed the tax on securities accounts, we had voted it together, but we know what it has become, since the whole transaction was cancelled. One can think about correcting what was wrong at the time, and one can think above all of setting the limit higher, because we do believe that saving a life must be preserved, that it is not normal to have those who have already paid taxes on income, those who will pay inheritance taxes, those who have paid registration fees. We believe that the small capital that the people who work can build must not be penalized. On the other hand, when we go beyond certain limits, it is probably possible to contribute better. The government and the Finance Committee, with many powers, will try to link all the ideas and develop things, all the more so as the current majority brings together those who were our opponents. Indeed, in relation to an economic crisis, a difficult situation and needs to be met, everyone must contribute according to their means. We also welcome the fact that the National Pact for Strategic Investments is at the heart of the government's investment plan and that it is part of the continuity of the defined axes, i.e. – perhaps I will answer the question you say I'm not answering – digitisation and innovation in healthcare, energy transition, improvement of our infrastructure and mobility, university education and research, digital agenda and cybersecurity. When you see the very broad, but at the same time very precise, pattern of sectors in which the investment pact is going to be implemented, you are thinking about all the companies in this sector that are in difficulty and you will have the precise answer to the precise question that you asked me. Climate change is the challenge of the century, we have no choice, we need to strengthen our action by taking action at all levels of power, including the European level, of course, with the Green Deal, which calls for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and the goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050. Our Government supports these European ambitions and is part of this dynamic. The government agreement provides that the climate targets will be translated into intermediate targets, subject to objective assessments every year and is already aiming for a reduction of 55% by 2030 – I don't know how to tell you in 2024. These intermediate objectives will be determined by working as a round table involving civil society, research institutions and different socio-economic sectors. Some of the key competences for climate policy are in the so-called mixed areas of competence, that is, shared between the federal and regional governments. This is particularly the case for the environment, energy and transport: federal and regional levels must necessarily be coordinated for more effective action. The government agreement provides for a series of measures to implement and succeed in this energy transition. For our group, corporate cars, for example, must be a lever to a greener fleet without the worker losing a euro. The previous minister, Marghem, had already launched a doubling of offshore wind capacity to reach the 4 gigawatts by 2030. The next wind zone will be carried out as quickly as possible and in reinforcement of the current electricity grid planned to connect the wind farms to the land territory, a new connection will be studied and, if possible, carried out for 2025-2026. We will also explore the possibility of going further than the objectives of the PNEC and building offshore wind farms outside Belgian territorial waters. In the framework of the government agreement, the 2003 law amended in 2015 on the exit of nuclear power remains relevant, but for our group, there are three important pillars for a modern energy policy: the price for citizens and businesses – we must not have a nuclear exit impact on the purchasing power of households and the competitiveness of our companies – security of supply – we must at all times have enough electricity to meet demand – and CO2 emissions and compliance with environmental and climate commitments such as the Paris agreement. A set of mechanisms is planned to guarantee these three criteria. If they are to be reached, between now and next year, the CRM and the launch of the auctions must be defined in order to allow for investment. We must have the necessary structures, the controllable power generation capacity to achieve our objectives in 2025. To ensure security of supply in all possible and conceivable cases as well as an affordable price, an appointment clause was established at the end of 2021 to analyse this situation. If this monitoring demonstrates a security of supply problem, the government will take measures such as adjusting the legal exit schedule for a maximum capacity of 2 gigawatts, i.e. 2 reactors. In conclusion, the action programme on environment, climate and energy is positive and takes into account the financial impact of the transition on the household and business portfolio, which our group supports.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u68	Thank you, Mr Piedboeuf. That is a matter that has already been raised a few times today, namely the question: if you postpone the decision until the end of 2021... Actually, the report comes in in 2021... So the decision you make will take place afterwards. Which means that you will then have to produce an environmental impact report in order to be able to change the law, in order to start everything up. All the sources I consult, the operator, our nuclear watchdog or anywhere else, all say this is too late. It has been written in such a way as to ensure that this extension is impossible. And there is only one way in which you would achieve that, namely by starting all the procedures now. So if you're writing an environmental impact report right now, if you're gonna put the law change in motion and stuff like that more. That's why I have the following questions. Firstly, is it indeed intended to move it to the end of 2021, where you know it is too late? Or are you going to insist from the MR that the necessary steps are taken immediately, that the procedures are initiated so that this timing can be achieved? I would like to point out that a similar question was asked some time ago about the environmental impact report of Objectives 1 and 2, particularly by all members of purple-green-plus (that is to say, Mr De Maegd). They asked if we're gonna make it to Target 1 and 2. Because we need to be ready by December 2022. If you don't start with Target 4 and Tihange 3 until the end of 2021, I don't think those plants will run in 2025. So my question is very specific: are you going to start it now, or are you going to close it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u69	Mr President, I would like to add a little strength and practicality to Mr Wollants' speech. This afternoon, Belga is to be read for everyone and in the press that ENGIE Electrabel, the operator, delivered a note last month to the negotiators from which I will quote very briefly: "Delaying a decision in principle on the future of Objective 4 and Tihange 3 until the end of 2021 makes it de facto impossible to continue operating those units after their current closing date of June/September 2025. And indeed, what are you going to do, Mr Piedboeuf? Are you already preparing part of the administrative and legislative work, just to be safe? Realism, I think, is very missing. I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u70	Mr President, that is exactly why it was necessary to make a government. We've been talking about it for so long that we've actually been late in a lot of procedures and decisions, and that's unfortunate. The goal remains the same and it is in the government statement – you did not hear what I said. If monitoring in 2021 – perhaps too late – demonstrates a security of supply problem, the government will take measures such as adjusting the legal nuclear release schedule for a maximum capacity of 2 gigawatts. I can't tell you anything other than what's in the government's statement. We maintain the objective of exiting nuclear power, we absolutely want to make the most of investments in renewable energy, we want to achieve the objectives and we do not want to take any risk in relation to the power supply. You both say it's not going to go and it's going to be too late, but we'll see and work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u71	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf may read that passage from the coalition agreement 27 more times, that does not change the fact that you will be late. It is your own group who asked whether the environmental impact report for Objective 1 and Objective 2 would be ready in time. We feared it would be too late. You are now saying that it can be much faster when it comes to Target 4 and Tihange 3. If our nuclear watchdog FANC says it's too late, you say they're wrong. If the operator says that the whole calendar does not fit into that discussion at all, your answer is: we will see. If that's the case, we won't see anything. Because at that moment the light will indeed go out. The fact that you read the same sentence every time, which has been very clearly registered by a number of parties to make sure that this extension is impossible, even if security of supply is compromised, makes me ask a lot of questions about who was at the table when that chapter was written. I hope it was more than one group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u72	I think Mr Piedboeuf's answer is a little hypocritical. He says we need a government to postpone or not postpone that core trip, to make decisions in it. Well, there are a number of parties in the majority who are in fact secretly in favour of this extension of life and who are all too well aware that we need this extension of life. The bill of the Flemish Interest has been submitted to the Committee on Climate Change, and it has been done very dogmatically, and it has not even been discussed at all. We did not want to have the debate, we even sabotaged the vote on the bill in order not to have to admit colour. That's why I think it's really hypocritical. And indeed, as my fellow Members say, there will be a very big problem by 2025, because this will not be corrected if no decision is taken at the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u73	But these are not questions, Mr. Chairman, they are statements and projections. To rule is to anticipate. We finally have a government, and this government is going to ask itself what you are saying, what you are saying, what we are debating. Michel De Maegd has already told us about this, as has Marie-Christine Marghem. So, the problem, it's gonna be on the table and the deadlines, we know them. A government cannot afford to stop the economy and the lights out, and the government will do what it takes to maintain the operationality of our power supply with all possible and imaginable means. I've told you about the offshore, of course they're never just small elements, but we need to continue this development and see what level of production and productivity we're going to achieve. And if not, of course, there is no government on Earth, and in any case not in our country, which will take responsibility for preventing the supply of electricity to households and businesses. So you can say that anyway we're not going to make it, I'm telling you that we have to make it and we're going to make it. There you go. In conclusion, the action programme on environment, climate and energy is positive and takes into account the financial impact of the transition on the household and business portfolio, which our group supports, I said. And I will conclude with an important point in your government agreement, Prime Minister, one that is of particular interest to me: that of the trust of the citizen. The long political crisis has finally found an epilogue. This must not cause us to lose sight of the huge gap that has been created with the population. That is why we are pleased that your Government has the will to pay particular attention to resuming constructive and effective dialogue with citizens. Many initiatives will be put in place to address this confidence deficit. And I know my colleagues, they're full of imagination, and you'll see that it's gonna blow. It is essential that we can bring together all the good wills around a common project, a common idea for our country, so as not to leave the field open to propaganda ideas of another time, of another age, which some intend to exploit. We owe it to our fellow citizens and we owe it to our country. The values of freedom, solidarity, justice, diversity, equality, rigorous management and respect for the other and the institutions must lead your and our reasoning and our work. I am convinced of this common will to unite to be stronger in rejecting selfishness, racism, denigration. That is why, Prime Minister, my group will vote for confidence in your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u74	Thank you, Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf. I was hoping that in your speech you would also say something about the state reform. But in view of the wide debate, it may not have happened. But I wanted to ask that question anyway, because there's something I really don't understand. The coalition agreement explicitly states that the institutional chapter is very important. Some colleagues have also stressed here that the institutional is an important trophy for the colleagues of the CD&V. It's so important, they say, that we're going to make two deputy prime ministers responsible in the government for that. We're not gonna give that to a secretary of state. We're not giving that to a minister. We'll give that to vice prime ministers. Why? Then that theme really comes to the heart, in the heart of the government. I look at the division of powers, and I see that Mrs Wilmès is the Deputy Prime Minister for the MR. But when I look at the division of labour, I see that Mr Clarinval is responsible for the institutional part. So it is not entirely clear to me who the Deputy Prime Minister is now. The government agreement states that the person dealing with the institutional is the deputy prime minister. So, Mr. Clarinval, congratulations, you're the Deputy Prime Minister. The coalition agreement says so. But all the crazy on a stick. I'm surprised. This government is putting that in writing in the coalition agreement. And then I'm surprised that apparently a promise is being broken. I have a simple question: why is this promise broken? Doesn't the MR want to be part of that state reform? Is that why? Doesn't Mrs. Wilmès want anything to do with this state reform? But then it would be interesting to know whether the coalition agreement will be implemented faithfully, even on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u75	Mr President, I would also like to speak on the institutional chapter. I was wisely waiting for him to be approached by Mr. Group Leader of the MR, since it is known that his political formation, up to its highest level, made it a central theme, even building up a bulwark, at some point, in the face of certain ideas. Three specific questions: the first is a priori more methodological, regardless of the point which was raised by Mr Loones and which you will have to answer. I would imagine that the a priori will is not to paralyse the government's action on the socio-economic side by risking any pollution of its action through the institutional debates. It would seem desirable to me. And then I imagine that you can confirm that the mission of the two leaders of the institutional reforms will be carried out in parallel, but independently of the action of the government. And if that is the case, it is true that we can therefore question the motivation which led the negotiators to consider that it was nevertheless necessary to be deputy prime ministers. Second question: since we all like clarity, in any case it is claimed, and therefore as much as to bring it, it is foreseen in the process, if we believe the government agreement to involve academic circles, civil society and citizens, that is very good, but also political actors. Do you then intend to include your process of consultation in the same span as was achieved during the sixth reform of the State, i.e. by also involving opposition parties in the forthcoming reform process? And if so, all the opposition parties? Including those who are willingly placed on the far left or far right line. Or not? Personally it will not be a surprise, at the risk of displeasing some of our colleagues in this House, if I tell you that I find that a process, if it is to be carried out with seriousness and reason, must not necessarily involve extremes. I know that the answer that you will give me will delight one another and will scandalize the other, but I am interested in having this clarification on how opposition parties could be involved, since, moreover, for the implementation of the reform, you know, a special majority is required. The third question, and I shall end with that, Mr President, because I have acknowledged the suitability of our colleague Servais Verstraeten in response to the question that some people were asking about the meaning of the reform of the State, and in particular its dual meaning. More regionalization, of course, but also no taboo on a re-federalization. When we read the text, it's obviously more subtle and we know why the word refederalisation does not appear expressis verbis, we talk about strengthening the powers of the federal. And, very skilfully, it's a compliment, Servais, you explained just now the great skills that the federal power exercises: pensions, etc. That is why we need to strengthen them. But strengthening the existing one is still something more than allowing the powers exercised by the federal government to expand. And so you know how much we have been attached, but you too, I remember your party president's speeches on an issue related to the re-federalization of certain competences, that it is at least one possible chapter. Then confirm in a very clear way that, when we talk about strengthening the powers of the federal government, it means, without knowing what the conclusions will be in advance, but at the very least, the prospect of re-federalizing certain powers and thus widening the base of the federal state's powers is also on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u76	Mr. President, thank you for your questions. You say that I did not mention it, you did not hear, in my speech, the notions of efficiency, improvement of efficiency, consultation with federated entities, etc. We realized this during the health crisis, but we also realize at other times how, indeed, our state does not always function ideally. There are two deputy prime ministers appointed, they are responsible for working on the subject. Two ministers, I'm sorry, I've been misled. The reason why they are appointed to work is that it is so confrontational and so often talked about that we need to take a step back and work in consultation with civil society actors and political actors. In my opinion, when we look at political actors, we think rather of the institutions that exist both in the federated and regional entities, the Senate, the provinces... we can really broaden the scope of action, we can see that there are a whole series of levels of power, it's a little bit like in France: there are too many and it brings a lot of difficulties, it's the same thing for us. So are we going to associate extreme parties? It is not a habit to associate them, nor to debate with them; on the other hand, there is one thing we must not forget to do, it is to listen to what they transmit as a message and what their voters transmit as a message. Last Sunday, we saw a demonstration of strength that was not the most sympathetic one could hope for. I, you know, since I've been in Brussels in Parliament and I've been staying on the spot, I take advantage of it every time I have the time, it happens to me, to make incursions into a whole series of small Flemish cities that I didn't know – because we live in a country that's beautiful, that's beautiful from Arlon to Ostend, that's full of monumental, cultural wealth, that's full of places to discover, and frankly, stopping at an idiotic linguistic border is really losing personal enrichment. Of course, we Francophones carry a problem, it is that the organization of our teachings has been so stupid that we have not all become perfect bilingual, it is obviously stupid in terms of politics and political responsibility. We're trying to reverse the trend now, but we're working 40 years late. So we have a problem at this level, and sometimes some forget that we have to go to the neighbour's house and see what is right there and we welcome a lot of Flemish people to our area. When one does this, one realizes that there is a development of hatred, aggression, and wickedness that sometimes unfolds in a totally stupid and totally uneconomic way, against, for example, the francophones who go to the coast: there are places on the coast where one is very well received, there are places where one is not well received. When you go for a little bit of Dutch, you get out of it and it goes well, otherwise, if you're not French, you're misreceived. It's sad to see that, it's absolutely sad. What is the economic effect of this? Francophones go either to the Netherlands, where they do not speak Dutch anymore, but they are better received, or to France, because obviously there is no problem with the language and there is a reception that is different. This, in a small state big as a handkerchief, is obviously disastrous. I went to Courtrai, Tongres, Ghent, Bruges, many Flemish cities, and I really find a wealth there from every point of view. It is, of course, something that we want to work against the hateful parties and that set up aggression against the Francophones. So are we going to chat with them live? No, but to receive the messages and to see the vehicles that carry, which carry Nazi signs etc., we must know that, because the rise of extremes in Europe is also in our country and so it is important to know that. But to discuss with the institutions, to discuss with the federated entities, to see how everyone can try either to do better what they have to do, or to better distribute the skills so that it works better, it is not a sacrilege: one must be able to discuss intelligently between us. There is no point in bracing ourselves on the words of re-federalization or regionalization, we need to be more effective and do better what we have to do collectively for the population. We have to sweep each one in front of his door. I heard at times that it was mentioned, and I say it every time I can when I'm under discussion on the subject in the part of the country that I frequent most: there is a Flemish Minister of Health, there is a federal Minister of Health and all the others are at home. So I say that to my political friends too: before we say that there are too many health ministers, we must first solve the problems at home, and that is just one example, there are others. Improving that for the country, but improving that each on its side is part of our obligations. There are ministers who are going to ask all the questions, who are going to dialogue, who are going to try to see how we improve things. And to improve things is to try to make things better in Flanders, to make things better in Wallonia and to try to articulate our relationships a little better. I am very pleased to be here and to be with my Flemish colleagues, I have got through the intensive Dutch courses, I am certainly not yet at the level, but I promise to continue. It's a little too bad to have to do it at my age, but here I am, I am still doing it and I regret that, on the part of the Flemish who were bilingual, some are becoming less and less so because they do not want to show Francophones that they speak French. It's too bad we have a small country that doesn't deserve this. I did not answer you very precisely, but I answered you with my heart because, frankly, in a country like ours, even if we are of different linguistic roles – we still have pleasure in being together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u77	Mr Piedboeuf, thank you very much for this lesson in your beautiful French language. Your Flemish colleagues who can catch up on this matter have certainly enjoyed this. One point. You said that some Walloon friends would take their holidays in the Netherlands or in France as a result of... I don't want to go into that, but okay. I learn from this that a border does not create any obstacle to going on holiday or meeting people somewhere, and that the impression is created that structural reform at institutional level would also mean a separation between people. I am particularly pleased that your example shows that one has absolutely nothing to do with the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u78	Mr Piedboeuf, my question is not so much who in the government is responsible for state reform. Let me be clear on that. My question is not about posts but about content. I don't think we got a real answer. I am also counting on an answer from the Prime Minister. As Prime Minister, Mr De Croo is the guardian of the coalition agreement, and it states in black and white that institutional reform, a state reform, will be the subject of discussions at the core of the government and will therefore be followed by Deputy Prime Ministers. It's really about the essence. Because the question is: is this chapter on state reform taken seriously or not? It is about whether each party and therefore the MR will play a loyal part in this. Indeed, it is also about whether Mrs Wilmès will, for example, be involved in the division of health care. This is a very specific point. We're counting on it. There is a light at the end of the tunnel or a bright spot in this government. We have also seen that two Deputy Prime Ministers have joined this government, Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Dermagne, Deputy Prime Ministers with a clear regionalist reflex. We hope to see that reflex with the MR and the CD&V.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u79	I will be brief, Mr President, because Mr Loones has quickly started discussing the division of health care and the government's vision and the exercise that needs to be made. But I note that it is the third party that sits in the government and communicates a different view on the regionalisation of health care. So I think you have a lot of work to do and I do not know what you have included in this note, whatever the truth about it. Just one compliment, Monsieur Piedboeuf. Thank you, you are actually the first Walloon politician to admit that there are far too many ministers in Wallonia as far as health care is concerned, and that those nine are seven in the French speaking area and one federal and one Flemish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u80	Mr. Chairman, I have no problem in recognizing that there are too many ministers in the Francophone side. Mr Piedboeuf, on several occasions, since you have been interrupted many times, you have started your answers by saying: "I cannot be clearer than I am telling you". I think you can be. In fact, I thank you for the fine confession of conclusion of your speech, which acknowledges that you did not answer the questions. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know if it's a minister, a vice-premier, etc.For me, it's basically incidental. What interests me is whether or not the institutional process will be matured independently and in parallel with government action. With a clear question, a clear answer, I am sure: yes or no? Second element – and I thank you for joining you on this – you have confirmed that the far-left and far-right parties would not be involved in the process. It will not delight all our colleagues here, but I personally acquiesce. You mentioned that the political actors to be consulted would of course also be other authorities and other entities. It is very good, but it is not these other parliaments or public authorities that will grant you a special majority in the House. There will therefore be a need to be able to coordinate the opposition parties as well; I say this all the more at ease as the question may be more on the Flemish side than on the Francophone side, in view of the composition of your executive. So, yes or no, we're going to be able to be associated, as was the case with the sixth state reform, out of Vlaams Belang and PTB as you confirmed? Finally, it is a word that is not complicated to say:'re-federalization'. You wanted it, we wish it. Will Vivaldi allow it? You drowned the fish skillfully, but in this chamber, we're all excellent swimmers. So the question is simple: at least the perspective of re-federalizations is clearly also an option for Vivaldi, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u81	Mr President, the problem of stopping at semantics is that we manage to offend people on a word, whereas, when we say things differently, we manage to be effective without vexing. So, actually, if you want to call an efficiency improvement at certain moments'refederalization' or'regionalization', you can. The fact of being more effective, however, does not mean that all of a sudden, the Regions are cut off from their responsibilities and then put to the federal level. No. We want to improve the decision line in some cases. A very simple case is that of urgent medical aid: there are decisions taken at regional level, which are absolutely ineffective and have varying geometry, between Flanders and Wallonia. So there is certainly a way to improve things. It is enough to consult companies that carry out medical transport, whether it is urgent or not, to have the demonstration of the stupidity with which we operate in our country. Where I am obviously very much in agreement is that we should not call for a re-federalization of what we are not capable of managing ourselves. Because when you're messing around in your region – excuse me for being vulgar, but that's how it is – and when you're mishandling something because you're misallocating it, you don't have to think that the solution is to put it at the top level so that we can solve the problems in our place. I have already noticed that in some cases there are things that are better done and organized in Flanders than they are in our home. I said recently in a debate that the Walloons should not think that re-federalisation is the solution to their inability to solve the problem. I'm sorry, but we have to be modest in recognizing that at times, we're not as effective. We are Latins, not Germanics, and sometimes Latins have a whimsical way of dealing with things. This is not always the case with our Flemish counterparts. When, for example, one sees the problem of INAMI numbers: from the moment a decision is made and it is applied on one side but it is not on the other, it is not surprising that it is complicated. It is not by saying that it is necessary to re-federalize that we will solve the problem, since we have not solved the problem ourselves. Now it's done, it happens, it's long, but it's gonna happen. As to whether ministers are going to work outside, if they are part of a government, each minister is working in his or her field. I guess there's going to be reports to the government and the idea is to make things better. As far as the opposition is concerned, when a two-thirds majority is needed, I do not see how it is obtained without asking those who have to vote if they want to vote in favour. This does not prevent parties with much more aggressive aims from joining this vote if it suits them; but we will see. These are the alternative majorities that I mentioned earlier. They are excluded from the operation of government. If they are realized because there are projects that appeal to other than the parties of the government, for example yours, so much the better. I assume that DéFI and other parties will at times support government-proposed decisions because they like them. In relation to what my colleague Peter De Roover said, it is true that it is not the border that prevents movement. That's just what I was denouncing, it's the translation of this frustration into an aggression over the other. I think the best way to solve problems is not to be aggressive. I respect you, I have a lot of pleasure in seeing you and it is not through aggression that we manage to move things forward. What I saw on Sunday doesn't make me want to take part in the party.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u82	Mr President, Prime Minister, congratulations to you and your entire team. Colleagues, almost 500 days. Five hundred days and finally we have a new government. Perhaps the voter did not shake the cards easily, but for us as politicians that cannot be an excuse to keep the voter waiting for a year and a half. We have put their patience to the test for far too long, and I have already said it in our assembly. Does it have to be surprised, for example, that we were told this morning in the media how little confidence that voter, the citizen, still has in politics? And that we caused a big dent in that confidence? Therefore, Prime Minister, first of all, and perhaps most importantly, your government's mission is to restore that confidence. By addressing the main challenges. By taking into account the real concerns of the people in the street and in the business parks. By engaging in dialogue with citizens and civil society, and in particular by acting jointly with seven parties. A restoration of credibility in politics is therefore primarily the responsibility of the government. This is primarily the responsibility of the majority, and we too should respect and show respect for the opposition. But not only, as Mr Calvo said this morning. We all do. The Duty of the opposition is tooppose . At the beginning of a new reign I invite you: control that government, challenge that majority, indeed be sharp and clear, but let us treat each other with dignity and courtesy. Because we are all responsible for the way we conduct the debate. We heard from the Chancellor a few weeks ago that the word is the beginning of the act. So let us avoid verbal violence, because democracy loses. That is also a challenge, I repeat, for all of us and therefore for this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u83	Mr Verherstraeten, I do not think I am mistaken when I read in your words a hint that I do not appreciate. You give the impression here, and I would like you to make it clear that the opposition would behave in an unworthy manner. That is implicit in your wording. Hence my question: do you want to be more specific about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u84	Mr De Roover, you don't have to feel attracted to me if I haven't spoken to you. It is my observation that the political debate has been very harsh in recent years and not only in our country, but everywhere. With the new media, that rough debate is also further enlarged, much more than before and much more than was the case in the traditional media. And that is not without the risk of democracy. Let me point out once again: this is, of course, first of all, a matter of course, and that is also our responsibility, of the majority and of the government. This is the responsibility of all of us. I'll make a call. I didn't point the finger here. I didn't reprimand here. I also think that today's debate is very courteous. Mr President, perhaps it is this new assembly or the new infrastructure where we sit that also affects a bit, but in any case I think it should be an ambition for all of us to do as athletes do with each other. We fight each other, but we also respect each other. That should also be the ambition of this majority, and it will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u85	When you speak of the opposition, I do feel addressed. I understand that we are now officially in opposition. I thought there was absolutely an insinuation, hence my question. I can therefore now interpret your words and your rightful reference to the courtesy of the debate, as it has happened today. I have not heard any harsh words, either from me or from colleagues. So I'm assuming you're formally contradicting the insinuation that could be seen in it, and I don't think that's what you should be looking for. Then I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u86	Mr President, I have said what I thought of this debate to date, and of course I am not taking back a word of it. But I have also said how sorry I am for the horror of the political debate not only in our country but also elsewhere in the world and the increase in it, and I have said that we must all be attentive to it. Colleagues, seven parties with different positions and we have reached an agreement. And that was only possible because we were willing to transcend ourselves and compromise. Mr Prime Minister, yesterday you quoted two Christian Democrats in this gallery: Monnet and De Gasperi. Since all good things consist of three, I would like to add one more: the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. If we are all prepared to compromise without compromising our principles, we can find a solution. That is what this majority has done. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we discussed, among other things, whether or not to have a majority in a language group. As Christian Democrats and as Flemish Christian Democrats, we have long argued for a federal government with a majority around an axis of the two largest political formations in the two parts of the country. I was quoted this afternoon as being extremely important. No more, no less. We felt that those in charge of state governments gave an even stronger chance for good cooperation between the federal government and the federal government, because people do not want to fight federalism. Because people want the many governments in our country to work together instead of working against each other. Flemings also want that, because people want efficient governance. Efficient governance is also a maximum effort to coordinate policies. And so strengthen each other's policies. It is true that we do not have a Flemish majority within the womb of this federal majority. We only got almost 49 percent of the votes. It is not intended to refer this legislature often to previous governments. I think we should talk about the future in politics, but I shall now make an exception. I'm just taking the last government as an example. If the last government has not ruled by a French-speaking majority, does that mean that we have ruled against the French-speaking people? Or does that mean that the government would have ruled against the Dutch speakers for that? Regardless of the composition of this government, as far as majority language is concerned, this government has only one ambition. From De Panne to Aarlen and from Mons to North Limburg, we will serve the interests of all Belgians, Dutch speakers and French speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, a coalition agreement is an important first step, but there is still a long way to go. The real work has yet to begin and that will only be possible if there is mutual trust and respect. That trust must grow, as in any government. That will have to grow, but it can only grow if we take into account concerns and sensitivities of others. The fact that seven parties can make a coalition agreement like this also shows that this is possible. If this government can fulfil that main task and also wants to restore confidence in politics, then it will also have to respond to the feelings of displeasure and uncertainty that exist among the population in any case. I am thinking of those who fear that their children will be less well-off than themselves, those who feel they have the feeling to deliver, who do not belong, those who believe that globalisation has gone too far and those who believe that they do not have the same opportunities as others. Globalisation has undoubtedly, and fortunately, brought enormous benefits. We cannot separate ourselves from the rest of the world. Openness is needed, but a community that is not built on a pedestal of common values is built on loose sand. These common values, ladies and gentlemen, we must cherish them, because they determine what we stand for. That is why this government must strike a balance, be a balance between the necessary reforms. And yes, we will take into account those who absolutely want a lot of adjustments and others who might prefer to leave it to the old. We will have to strike a balance between those who have it right and those who have less opportunities. We will have to strike a balance between Flemings and French speakers. We must strike a balance between those born here and those who are newcomers here. Ladies and gentlemen, we were struck in spring by something we did not expect. We've been hit by a health crisis that hasn't happened before. Fortunately, and I salute them, we have a high-quality health care with fantastic care providers, but the crisis also teaches us things. The crisis has taught us that it can be more efficient. The crisis has shown that care workers also deserve more recognition. Applause is excellent, but better wage and working conditions, a reduction in workload and more training are even better. That's what this government does. It places structural resources on the table for the entire legislative period and continues the work that had started in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u87	Mr Verherstraeten, you have just mentioned unity, efficiency and lessons from the corona crisis. One of the lessons we have just learned is the problem of the nine Health Ministers. Not only two Flemish and seven French speakers, because Mrs Depoorter forgets Elke Van den Brandt van Groen, who represents the Flemish Brusselsers. What the crisis really taught us is that we need unity of command. It's been said by all the experts. There have also been public opinions about it. Fleming or Waal, one is similarly affected by the coronavirus. So I don't understand why you think you're getting closer or more efficient by splitting up more. Do you really think you're getting closer to the people by getting Health from the Wetstraat to Martelarenplein? Think of the drama in the residential care centers. How did Mr Beke manage the crisis in Flanders? The 2006 pandemic plan, which was used to tackle pandemics in residential care centres, was apparently left somewhere in a drawer. It was never passed on and therefore not carried out in the residential care centers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u88	Mr Merckx, I would like to return to the distribution of competences in my speech, but let me answer your question. Firstly, we are affected by a huge health crisis, which has surprised us all, not only our Communities and our country, but also our neighbouring countries. The extent and unexpectedness of it has surprised us all. We answered that. The respective Communities. The federal government. I do not think that everything worked out perfectly, but I do think that all the various governments have given themselves the very best of themselves. We've learned by doing. Learning by doing. Could it have been better? Yes, but have we done as badly as you say? I'm afraid to contradict that. We would dishonor those who have given the very best of themselves. Do we need a unit of command? There's been a lot of unity, I think. Could there be more unit of command? I think so, I think we can do that. Today we have a state structure as it is and we are sitting there today with a constitutional context as it is. We will therefore have to deal with the current special legislation and the current Constitution. If it is not as serious as in March/April, in spring, and we can manage the matter, perhaps not manage it, but manage it, then I also think that unity of command is possible, with respect for each other's powers. This respect for each other's powers is often reflected in this coalition agreement. Colleagues, this crisis has also demonstrated the importance of physical well-being, but also of mental well-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u89	Mr Verherstraeten, you spoke earlier about respect for each other's powers. You also mentioned a courteous and serious debate. At that last point, that's not what I've been picking up all day. When an Antwerp colleague lost himself in a rather arrogant tone this morning in some phrases without much coherence, that was not the binding language to which this majority, this purple-green government, boasts. Apparently that's not the first time, witnessing the promising white rabbit from Antwerp. However, I am gentle and forgiving. It's gonna be a little nervous, and I understand that, because when it comes to division of powers, I understand that there's some nervousness in you, too. That is why you are emphasising this. I have a very specific question. The coalition agreement contains virtually nothing similar to labour market reform. What it is capable of is one concrete activation measure, but activation is primarily the competence of the Länder. So that surprised me. When I look at what activation measure it is, it is about those zones 'zéro chômeur de longue durée', something that has blown over from France, to Wallonia and even to Brussels, but not yet to Flanders. From a Flemish perspective, such a measure is of course the cart for the horse. The Flemish activation policy is solely aimed at directing people to a job, to prepare people for it, specifically and more specifically towards bottleneck professions. That zone zéro chômeur de longue durée is just the opposite. We have an unemployed person who apparently cannot get into the labour market, so we are creating an artificial job, subsidised by the government. That is what is happening today in France, Wallonia and Brussels. That is, of course, contrary to what Flemish policy stands for. I am sure you know it well enough, because the Minister of Work in the Flemish Government knows you very well too. She's one of your party mates. I do find it special how you rhyme with one another. My specific question to you is therefore: the activation measure now contained in the government agreement of the purple-green government means that the zones 'zéro chômeur de longue durée' will also be forced on Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u90	Mr President, I have very interesting and interesting questions. But they are shutters that I would like to mention in my speech. I was still working on the health section. Mr Anseuw, we, as Flemish Christian Democrats, consider respect for each other's powers to be fundamental. We're assuming that if everyone sweeps in front of their own door, the whole street will be clean. As far as the ambitions of this federal government in terms of activation are concerned, you said it yourself: first of all, that is a competence of the regions. That is true, but we can help in the framework of our competences in end-of-life policies and workable work, to help the region's regions realise that activation. It's not the federal government's intention to get on their property. The aim is to achieve results. Mr Anseuw, I am trying to answer your question. Or do you want to ask a new question before I have answered it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u91	Mr Verherstraeten, I have a very clear question. I hear you talking about respect all the time, but I listened to Radio 1 this morning, and that was where the ARCO savers were talking. They said it's hard that the opposing lawyer in the ARCO file will eventually become minister. They are, of course, not talking about the person himself and her competences, but about the symbolic value. You talk about respect all the time. What do you think about the respect for those ARCO savers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u92	Mr President, during my speech I have questions about everything, so that I find it more difficult to follow the structure of my speech. I shall first try to answer the question about labour market policy. What you will undoubtedly have noticed, Mr Anseeeuw, is that the federal government's ambition to increase its efficiency rate to 80% by 2030 is also the ambition of the Flemish government. The federal government and the Flemish government share the same ambitions. You advocate autonomy, so do we. Perhaps in a different context, but we also advocate autonomy. If a French-speaking region, which is competent for activation, gives certain interpretations, then we should respect that autonomy. If we insist on our autonomy within the framework of our powers, then we should also respect the autonomy of our French-speaking fellow Members within the framework of their powers. I will, but we have made a joint commitment. More people at work, that's the essence of the matter. This is, of course, about unemployment, but also about much more than unemployment. There are many more people who are not at work, Mr Anseuw, who are not unemployed either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u93	Thank you for your very clear answer, Mr Verherstraeten. I understand from your reply that you will respect the autonomy of the Länder in terms of activation. That's one, I think I got that right. Secondly, I understand that you want to support those areas without long-term unemployment from the federal government. You know very well that such an activation measure runs counter to what is happening in Flanders in terms of activation. In other words, it is only a measure tailored to the French language, which will mainly be paid by the Fleming. That is clear, that is a new additional invoice for Flanders, an invoice that Flanders must pay for the Walloon activation policy. Well, that makes sense. That is the step you are taking in this purple-green government. I wouldn't be proud of it. I note, but it is good that the Flemings now know that there will be additional invoices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u94	Mr Anseuw, you do not have to put words in my mouth that I have not spoken. If it is clear that there are ambitions to reach 80% by 2030, then both the regions and the federal government will have to step up and work together and coordinate their policies, with respect for each other's powers, but with one clear line, and that is to achieve that ambition. Then more people will come to work, and then your concerns about the transfers will be reduced by themselves. That is my absolute conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u95	I might not have made my question clear, so I shall repeat it again, Mr Verherstraeten. You talked about respect all the time. This morning you may have also heard the ARCO savers on the radio. They found it disrespectful that the adversary's lawyer became minister. It was twice not about the competence or the person of the minister, but of course about the symbol value. To what extent do you consider that respectful for those ARCO savers, who have been hurt by millions of people who have come out of the ARCO file?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u96	Colleague, we respect those 800 000 ARCO savers and we have sought solutions both in the previous government and in those before that, with various compositions. There are procedures pending. We live in a rule of law. We must respect those procedures and we shall do so. After the competent courts and courts have ruled on this matter, we will be in a position as government. However, what I do not find respectful is that you wish to make a new minister who you did not know, but whom I do know, suspicious by her professional past. Lawyers have a deontology!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u97	I have made it very clear that it is not about the competence or the person of the minister, but, of course, about the symbol value. My question to you is quite clear: agreements have been made in the government negotiations on the ARCO dossier, because, unless I have made a mistake, there is nothing about this in the government agreement. So I ask you very clearly: what about the ARCO file? What have you agreed with the seven parties on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u98	You have read the coalition agreement well. You will find nothing about this in the coalition agreement. You heard me right. There are legal proceedings pending. That is what we are waiting for, and then the government will take a position on it and the relevant minister will take a position on it in consultation with the government as a whole. You know the ambition of the Flemish Christian Democrats, but you also know the ambition of many others. We are looking for solutions in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u99	May I now suggest that Mr Verherstraeten continue his speech? I'll say it again, but what are the benefits of candle and glasses? A group leader also has the right to make a few points without having to constantly switch from one theme to another. That's not what you're supposed to do, is it? I can repeat that now, Mrs Van Bossuyt, but this is not the correct interpretation of the right of interruption. What we want to avoid are ten speakers who follow each other without a debate being possible. Now a speaker in the gallery hardly gets a chance to say anything. He's actually being questioned like he's a member of the government. That was also the case with Mr Piedboeuf. I have never actually seen the government spend such a quiet day as today. I have not heard a single specific question from a member of the government. I don't know if that's a deal. I'm just trying to get you back to class, because we're hopping at every group leader from one question to another. Soon the government will have to replicate on something. So I am challenging you a little bit to allow Mr Verherstraeten to continue his speech and also to give some work to the government. That was actually my intention, but you have the floor, Mrs Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. I had already made my point three times in the time you have just made this remark. Mr Verherstraeten, you are talking about respect for each other's powers. I suppose respect for each other's powers also means that you can sit at the table when your powers are discussed. However, this is not the case in this country at the moment. At the European level, Flanders hardly ever sits on the table, whereas a lot of its powers are discussed there. And especially in this government, in this constellation with a Flemish minority, it is more important than ever that that Flemish voice can be heard much more clearly at the European table. I therefore hope that this will finally change.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u101	Mr Van Bossuyt, as the President of the Chamber has rightly said, I am not in the government. However, I have been in it once and I understand that a great many of the positions that our country must adopt are, in any case, the subject of inter-ministerial consultations. In the coalition agreement, the words 'Evaluate' and 'Evaluate' are very common, phenomenally even, as Mr De Roover rightly said this morning. In the meantime, Mr De Roover, I have also looked at how many times they were in the previous coalition agreement. More. I also googled how many times they were in the Flemish coalition agreement. More. What I am very proud of is that this coalition agreement contains a great deal of "in consultation with the social partners' and "in consultation with the Länder'. What I am very proud of is that this coalition agreement repeats very much that we want to cooperate with the state governments in order to achieve the best possible policy anywhere in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u102	You listened very carefully earlier, of course, but only half-quoted me when you said that your government, the government you support, will examine and evaluate a great deal. I don't have a problem with that. I was particularly concerned about the lack of reforms on the other hand. The reform drive of the Flemish government, in which you actively participate, is something to the contrary. So it is not so much that this government is investigating too much, but that it has too little ambition to reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u103	Mr President, I have the impression that you are trying to encourage me to take part in the debate. If I hear something that is factually incorrect, then I will take the opportunity to respond to it. I would like to comment on Mrs Van Bossuyt's remark that Flanders is never at the table in Europe. In five of the nine Council formations, Flanders is at the table. This applies, for example, to agriculture, fisheries, energy and mobility. Flanders sits at the table at five of the nine formations and is involved in the definition of the positions in relation to other themes. I have often been to meetings of Ecofin and the Eurogroup over the past few years and I can say that Flanders is always involved in defining the positions and notes that are given on this issue. They are the result of negotiations and they must be respected. To say that Flanders is not involved in discussions at the European level is to deny the light of the sun.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u104	I am very pleased that in future you will always take Flanders with you to all European summits and, for example, to the European Council, when a budget of EUR 2 000 billion is being negotiated. Thanks for the commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u105	You're drawing a conclusion from something I didn't say at all. Perhaps Mr President could clarify things. I didn't say that. I simply refuted your remark that Flanders is never at the table. That is absolutely not the case. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u106	Mr President, I would like to call on you to act as President. The Prime Minister said that the Länder were involved in the discussions at European level on certain issues. In addition, the Government Agreement states that the 1994 cooperation agreements must be amended. The government agreement itself therefore states that this government considers that the Länder are not sufficiently involved in the consultations at the European level. Mr Bossuyt's question is therefore entirely justified. Former Prime Minister Wilmès committed himself to greater involvement of the Länder in the latest negotiations on the multiannual budget. This has been done to a large extent, but not at important moments. These are important issues which are included in the budget and for which knowledge must be sought from the Länder. Think, for example, of discussions at European level on European agricultural policy. The necessary knowledge is then in Flanders. Mrs Bossuyt's question is quite right and you cannot just take it off with some kind of political spielerei. Do you intend to engage the Länder, whenever it is necessary and whenever there is a micro-power in the Länder, not only at previous meetings but also at the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u107	The European Council of Heads of State or Government has Heads of State or Government. Then how can we arrange for someone who is not a head of state to join us? A European summit is taking place today, and I cannot, of course, be present. The only way in which our country can be represented at that summit is either by the President-in-Office of the Council, and so is Charles Michel, or by a Head of State. For example, Emmanuel Macron is not present today and is represented by Angela Merkel. So we can only be represented by a head of state. I don't know if you see this as a stepping stone in connection with some separatist idea, but that's another story. At a summit of Heads of State, one cannot be represented by the head of state. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u108	Mr President, I think the Prime Minister knows very well that he is never in the Chamber alone. Among the important councils, for example in the negotiations on the budget of EUR 2000 billion, the Prime Minister sat there with the five people he was allowed to take with him. That was five people... sitting there. Only in the second instance was the Flemish Permanent Representative somewhat informed and he was called upon. We must be able to sit behind the Prime Minister to decide on such important matters. That is in the interests of everyone in Belgium. That is where the necessary information lies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u109	Mr President, I feel a little involved in this story, as I had the honour to defend Belgium's position during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. There have been two phases. Before the outbreak of COVID-19, I travelled with members of the Walloon Government delegation and the Flemish Government. As you know, only the Heads of Government are allowed to sit at the negotiating table. There is room in the delegation for people who want to come and for the outbreak of COVID-19 there was room for Wallonia and Flanders. Then we had to deal with COVID-19. And what happened at that time is that we could no longer have large delegations and that, therefore, the minimum is to have his ambassador, the people of the administration who follow you, etc. Finally I am not going to explain everything here, I already did it in committee at the time, and we were in constant contact with the permanent video representation to explain the evolution of things. That's a first point. Second point: all the points which are defended in Europe. It is sometimes only the head of government or head of state who sits, but in Belgium there is the CEO, there are DGE preparations, and everything is discussed. Third point, at the level of the organization of work at the federal level, since you were the chairman of the commission, you know that we were doing pre-briefing and then we did debriefing. And I will end with this: the proof that the views of the federated entities are always defended is that, I remind you, at the outset, in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework from 2020 to 2027, there was no question at all, in any case, that there should be compensation for a Brexit. Who fought for it? Belgium, among others, with the federated entities at its side, not only Belgium, but Belgium at the federal level with the federated entities at its side and we have achieved our goals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u110	I'm trying to get back on track, Mr President. We were talking about reform? Reforms do not necessarily mean to create tabula rasa. Reforms can further strengthen what is good. The former Health Minister present here has taken the first steps towards the expansion of mental health care. This government strengthens and invests EUR 200 million in it. That is an important step and an important start to give those who are vulnerable the concerns they are entitled to. That is what we call reform. We have just talked about labour market reforms to boost the employment rate. We want to remove the thresholds for inactive people. For example, we provide part-time work and part-time recovery due to illness. We make it possible to reward those who make the effort to work part-time rather than punish, as we may have done a little too much in the past. We give people with disabilities more opportunities to participate in the labour market. It has already been referred to by Mr Piedboeuf, among others, and we are trying to reduce the price of love further, so that a disabled person living with a partner can work and benefit from contacts, because working is more than earning a wage. Working also creates social contacts. It also makes working feel like it. That's so important. That too is reform. If we help widows who want to pick up again after losing a partner, that is reform too, and I think that is very social. I think that's very warm-hearted. Christian Democrat can't do it any more. That is the wish and that is the ambition of all seven parties. We are also pleased that the government continues to ensure the competitiveness of our companies, which is the basis of employment growth. Wage increases should be possible. Wage increases where possible are absolutely preferable, because they strengthen purchasing power and strengthen the growth of the economy, but we make them possible without compromising the competitiveness of enterprises. I'm coming to retirement now. In the previous government, there has been a very intense debate on pensions and the end of career. Some thought we were going way too far and others thought we weren't going far enough. We Christian Democrats have always argued that people who live longer would also work longer and that retirement age would evolve with the extension of their lifespan. However, there must also be support for it. It should also be possible. That is why we find what is in the coalition agreement, the preservation of the existing rules, so good. We're not relaxing, and we're not intertwining. I often hear in the assembly the reproach of Flemish Christian Democrats that we are in a middle position. That is the path that we have always followed and which we will always follow. We're pleading for a human economy. We also advocate workable work. Even more grumbling about the end-of-life rules and pension rules can only be considered if we continue the progress we have already made in terms of workable work and end-of-life rules, and this has been more than there has been in recent years on the ground. This is a sensitive matter. We've made arrangements there. I heard Mr Calvo say this morning: 'There have been appointments made.' We shall honour them as a group. In this sensitive area, too, I say to my friends and colleagues from the majority: we too will honour the agreements in this area. The government also provides for a strong relance policy by increasing people's purchasing power and by supporting companies. We have adopted many legislative proposals in Parliament over the last few months, with substantial increases in expenditure. There were several parties inside and outside the then majority who wanted to go even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u111	Mr Verherstraeten, you will not believe it, but I have received another message from the bomba of Conner Rousseau and she tells me that it is now clear to her after the reply from Mr Laaouej and Mr Piedboeuf, in particular that it is not really clear. She says: "Okay, that 1,500 euros that is actually gross that will then be net by." She didn't quite understand. By the way, who can claim the EUR 1 500? Yeah, so they're gonna have to think about that again, she tells me. When could we be entitled to that? I told her to look into the coalition agreement. And you didn't listen very carefully to Mr. Laaouej and Mr. Piedboeuf. They intend to achieve this effectively by 2024. Then I got a short answer. Something about pavements and hell. I have no further argument to convince Conner's bomba that it is not really entirely wrong, namely that the whole scheme around that minimum pension is very unclear and diffuse and that the EUR 1,500 at all, contrary to what was originally intended to appear, is not a guarantee, not even in 2024. I have just reminded Mr Laaouej of a statement by an ex-minister who is now Minister, Mr Vandenbroucke. He warned at the beginning of this year: "Don't create false expectations. Think carefully before communicating, so that people are sure of a minimum pension of 1,500 euros." You speak to people who have worked their whole lives and we have created the hope that they will receive EUR 1,500 instead of EUR 1,000 or EUR 1,200. Help me convince Conner's bomba that it will be effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u112	Mr Van der Donkt, I hope you are happy with us that this government is raising the lowest pensions. I hope you are satisfied that it will increase all pensions below EUR 1,500, and there are, for example, very many pensions for self-employed people. This government therefore also has the interests of the self-employed in mind. EUR 1,500 naturally presupposes a full career. That's what a former and current minister says. I'm glad we have a strong force when he gets back into the government. If he says, "You can't have false expectations," then we don't. This government is not saying that tomorrow all pensions will be more than EUR 1,500 net. This government does say: 'We want and we are going to increase pensions to EUR 1,500.' And read the coalition agreement: net. In the budgetary tables, you will see that we are gradually and progressively increasing pensions to well above EUR 1,500 gross. We will see with the government year in, year out to what extent that growth path is possible, but the ambition is and will remain, and we will realize it: for all Belgians with a full-time career a net pension of 1,500 euros. Colleagues, I shall return to my speech. Increasing the purchasing power of people and businesses. That is our ambition. But, and that's what we've learned, the trees don't grow to heaven. The budget deficit, which has grown considerably as a result of the phenomenal health crisis and the economic crisis that we are facing, must remain within acceptable limits. That is why it is the ambition of this majority to reduce that deficit in the second half of the legislative term in a structural manner so as not to burden our children and our grandchildren with an even greater debt. We are pleased to note that we have also made good agreements on this issue. The late Jean-Luc Dehaene had a golden rule in his two governments that he led: a third, a third, a third. Savings, income and miscellaneous. We have also made these agreements, which are balanced and fair. I would also like to return to the debate I have heard on this fair rule here in this assembly. It is not that we are by definition already taxing our budget path that you find in the tables. It is, of course, the intention to take measures, to get figures, in such a way that we do not need various measures. So that we don't need additional cuts and additional taxes. That's the ambition. If we succeed in increasing the level of activity and realising our ambitions in this respect, we will be able to reduce social security expenditure. Because more people are working, there will be additional income without increasing taxes. Because people who have a job, of course, pay more taxes than people who don't. That goes without saying. In this way, we are trying to achieve better budgetary results so that the additional efforts we will have to make can be limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u113	Mr Verherstraeten, I have a very clear question for you. He says, and I quote him: 'The government's budgetary plans are irresponsible to our children and grandchildren and bring us straight to the column of weak guilty countries.' I would also like to quote a story on the one hand. On the one hand, you say that we have a balanced budget path here, and on the other hand your colleague Mr Bogaert says that these plans are irresponsible to our children, grandchildren and that we end up in the weak debt-stricken countries of Europe. What is it now, on the one hand, or on the other hand, or on the other hand? Which one of the CD&V should we believe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u114	Mr Vermeersch, it will undoubtedly be the ambition of the seven majority parties to improve our budget figures faster and more structurally. Moreover, we have agreed that, if economic growth is much higher than we have foreseen, we will also make additional efforts. But what we are not going to do is, in the extremely difficult economic conditions in which we are now in such a rigid budgetary policy that we will not be able to achieve any economic growth. We're not gonna do that. I am speaking on behalf of our group as a whole, and I shall be voting on the vote of confidence for this government, on the whole of this coalition agreement, but you already know the answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u115	Colleagues, we can of course continue to ping-pong... It is indeed a debate. You can continue to do so in this way for all 150 or 149 Members, but I would remind you that four to five groups still need to use their main speaking time. In accordance with the agreements we made at the Conference of Presidents, I do not think that is correct. Anyone can, of course, keep interrupting. If you think you have a good debate then, so be it. I cannot do anything in the Rules of Procedure against the fact that you are asking to speak, so please do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u116	Mr Verherstraeten, we do not want a super-rigid budgetary policy in this crisis. We're not saying that at all. But I would like to ask you the same question that I have also asked Mr Laaouej. In the budgetary tables that are presented here, we end up at 3.4 % deficit in entity 1, the federal government. The Walloon budget pits and so on are still to be added to this. You were just talking about pensions and their affordability. How do you intend to keep pensions affordable if we are already 3.4 % short with the federal government alone and move towards 4.5 or more percent with the Walloon wells?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u117	Mr Vermeersch, I am not unaware of the budgets of the Walloon Government and of the Brussels Capital Government, but I am sure they will have the ambition to improve their budget figures in a structural manner in the second half of the legislative term, as the Flemish Government also provided for in its government agreement. Even now, they are short. I think that's more than justified that they're short. But they're going for an improvement on those numbers. I actually think that your intervention gives the impression that people should be afraid of their pensions, whereas we, as governments, have the ambition to improve and increase those pensions of people. While an ageing committee has said that in the long term, let me say that the problem of affordability of pensions will be reduced. We can do that, Mr Vermeersch, and we will be able to do that, and that will not prejudice the increase in pensions. These budgetary figures will not undermine the ambitions of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to avoid a dual society. That is why, as Flemish Christian Democrats, we want to take steps towards fair taxation. I welcome the fact that this government continues the steps taken by previous governments and reduces the burden on labour where possible. That we push in the backs of the families of which both parents work by supporting child care and by providing care. That we are going to value the Internet giants, impose minimum taxes on multinationals and reduce unacceptable tax injustices for the benefit of sportsmen and brokers, for example. We believe that this is a step forward. In addition to the economic and budgetary and financial aspects, I would also like to talk about our secure society. We're gonna bet on more cops. We are committed to speeding up procedures for punishment, including smaller crime. We want a chain-oriented approach to child abuse and intra-family violence. And, above all, we want a secure society. Zero traffic casualties are unrealistic. But the seven partners cannot accept the fact that we score very badly compared to other EU countries, and perhaps it has not been enough in the past, but it is no less a village street dossier. Thousands of families losing a child or a relative. Thousands of families who are sometimes a few lines as a column in the newspaper but who remind us all, when we read it, and say: 'Oh, thank God it didn't happen to us'. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to step up our efforts here with the stricter penalties we have already imposed in the past. More checks, more enforcement and the driving licence with points to permanently stop hard learners from serious infringements, that is what needs to be done. We owe it to those victims' families. Ladies and gentlemen, the 200th anniversary of our country is no longer far away. But Belgium of 2030 is and will not be Belgium of 1830. By the way, we are going to be celebrating 50 years of federalism. And the work isn't finished yet. The corona crisis and the long duration of our government formation show that our state structure can be improved, despite the fact that there are also a lot of good elements in it. We, as Flemish Christian Democrats, are not nostalgic unitaries. Nor are we separatists. We are going for a strong Flanders in a governable country and we want to strengthen the autonomy of the Länder. But as we agreed with each other, we also want to take each other's sensitivities into account. Mr Calvo, I must say that I greatly appreciated your speech this morning. Yeah, we insisted there was a hatch on this. Yeah, we made arrangements together. Yeah, we don't agree on everything. We do not agree on everything between Dutch speakers and French speakers and we do not even agree on everything between Dutch speakers. That's a statement. We knew that, too. That was also apparent from the electoral campaigns. But if we want to move forward, we will have to listen to each other and then we will have to talk to each other. That's the only way we can try to make an agreement. Otherwise, it won't work. Making agreements with yourself alone doesn't bring us any progress. I think that the working method we have agreed on is a good working method. We are going in consultation with the field of work, with the citizens, with the associations, with those who are confronted with that state structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u118	Mr Verherstraeten, briefly on the idea of splitting up health care, because we have already talked about it. My question to you is very clear: does this coalition agreement mean a division of health care or not? Can you answer that clearly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u119	Mr Merckx, you have read the agreement. You also know the current constitutional context. Firstly, the pre-constituent of the last legislature offers only a very limited framework for this constituent. That narrows down our room for manoeuvre. Mr Calvo pointed out the reasons for this this morning. Secondly, changes in our state structure require a special majority, and thus a majority in both parts of the country. This requires efforts and contacts. Thirdly, we agreed to prepare ourselves. We have identified a direction in the field of public health, close to the patients and towards the federated entities. But we have also agreed that we will speak to the field of work. I'll be honest with you. I dare to be critical myself. We have implemented a sixth state reform, together with almost the same majority and also our French-speaking Christian-Democratic family. It has given a great deal of autonomy. But I am not deaf or blind to the critical remarks that we got out of the field afterwards. This shows that there is a need for more homogenisation and more efficiency or for more efficiency through homogenisation. What we can do during this legislature in agreement and by a majority, we will not fail to do so. But in the light of the constitutional context, I expect most of it to happen from 2024. That is why I think it is so important that we prepare this thoroughly and that we write texts. Jean-Luc Dehaene once carried out a state reform in which, as it were, he had the legal texts beside him and the legal texts were negotiated. For example, we did not do this in the sixth state reform. One loses a lot of time. I think it is right to negotiate draft texts, which have or have not already been considered by the Council of State. Those are steps forward, and that also buys us a great deal of time. This seems to me to be the right way forward. We're not gonna lose these four years. We're gonna move forward, and the steps we can take, we're gonna take them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u120	Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to hear you quote Jean-Luc Dehaene on the reform of certain sectors. There is a particular sector, education, which has been reformed without this state reform being necessary in the first place. We had an agreement, Mr Verherstraeten, to regionalise the healthcare sector from the current powers, to split the budgets and approach them bicefal. Your party agreed to that. I hear you now developing a different logic. Okay, you may have changed your mind. But I also hear you say you'll be doing a thorough investigation. One of the key partners in the health sector is the well-known Zorgnet-Icuro. Zorgnet-Icuro has clearly declared itself in favour of regionalising care. So why, my colleague, are you hiding behind an extra investigation behind years of conversation with the sector again, when you can perfectly take steps today? When I look at the coalition agreement, I see that you are trying to take a lot of small steps, but in a not so kosher way. You are talking about prevention. Prevention is a state power, but you will now have to deal with it a little bit. There are a number of examples, for example, which I will quote in the debate on health care. However, my question to you is what is the added value of the years of research, ignoring the signals from the field, and of an agreement that was actually supported by your party but cannot be carried out now? And what about the interventions of the coalition partners just now, where one so to speak refers to the moon the other to Jupiter? You have no consensus. What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u121	Colleague, if there was a consensus around a two-thirds majority on a state reform, there were drafts or legislative proposals for it next week, so to speak. That is not the case. In the last legislature, we had a standstill, a freeze. We haven't even prepared ourselves. Realising a state reform and a state structure where, for example, we point to the direction of health care, and where your and our preference is the same, is of course only possible if we build bridges and establish contacts. That seems essential to me. I come to the agreement that you concluded with the colleagues from the PS. I was pleased in the month of August, because I hoped there would be a majority possible around an axis of the two largest political formation. We had that ambition too, but it didn't work. You would now like to refer to that agreement. I want that agreement, which required your efforts, which required the efforts of the PS, not abort at all. But there is one thing. I have a great deal of respect for your group and its supporters. I have a great deal of respect for the PS Group. But although you are the greatest formation in each of your regions, you obviously have no exclusive right to speak in that regard. The sum of your group strength is not enough to bring about reforms. That's why you need more people. It's already hard to make an agreement with two. But it is even more difficult to conclude an agreement that produces a two-thirds majority and a majority along any language role. There's still a way to go for that. And I hope you'll take that road with us. Colleagues, I have just heard my good colleague, Mr Piedboeuf. It showed that we don't agree on everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u122	Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to emphasise that in order to split the finances into the budgets of health care, we do not need a two-thirds majority at all. This can be done perfectly within a parliamentary majority. I would like to ask the question that my colleague Mr Depoorter also asked, because you did a bit of avoid it on his cheeks. If we put forward proposals to split these budgets, will you support them with your group or not? That's what it's about in the end. We can do this without a two-thirds majority and without a state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u123	Mr President, with the exception of my own mistake, my colleague, the special financing law requires a special majority. So I don't think you're right about that. I do not think that is right. Let me be quite clear. We would like to transfer as much as possible. That is the ambition of the Flemish Christian Democrats. But we realize that there is no consensus and we realize that not everyone agrees on this, not even within the Flemish parties... A direction has been pointed within the government's bosom. But let us be very clear, and we may differ from your group in that respect, we do not want to split up the funding. We do not want to break off interpersonal solidarity. Whether a sick person is French-speaking, Dutch-speaking or foreign-speaking, he has the right to care and that must be guaranteed. We have constitutionally anchored this concern and, as far as we are concerned, it remains constitutionally anchored. We are a prosperous country. We cannot afford that North or South would really have a shortage of care. As Flemish Christian Democrats, that has always been our vision and will always be our vision. But I listened to my good colleague Piedboeuf very well just now and some elements of his discourse sounded like music to the ears. We must be critical of what can be done even better. The regions should be open to each other and open to dialogue. I should like to congratulate our two ministers responsible for preparing this state reform. They may not be vice prime ministers as textually stated in the coalition agreement. What happens in the morning hours when the powers are divided, Mr Loones? I wasn't there. Every advantage has its disadvantage, and vice versa. I know colleague Clarinval. I have had just as good cooperation with Mr Clarinval as I have with Mr Piedboeuf, with an open mind. I know the qualities of our Minister Verlinden in that regard. The advantage of not being in the core is that we have a little more time to start work. There is a great deal of concern at the heart of the matter and there is a great deal to be done about it. But, of course, it is a responsibility of the whole government and a final responsibility of the Prime Minister and his entire team in this matter. It is not important to me who does it, it is important to me that progress is made and that progress will only be made if we respect each other's views and try to grow towards each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u124	Mr Verherstraeten, state reform is a very important subject for you personally. It's a pleasure for you. We talked earlier about who will be in the process of state reform. I would like to ask you a question about what exactly they are going to do. What's in the coalition agreement? The coalition agreement says that state reforms will be prepared without taboos. That's the layer of varnish Peter De Roover just mentioned. That is a layer of varnish that hides a reality, and what is reality? Let's be honest. We all know what that word "without taboo" means. That word means that some of your fellow ministers, fellow parties in the De Croo government, want to take away powers from Flanders and re-federalise those powers. How's that gonna go? You said yourself: there will be two ministers, one from MR, one from CD&V. They will issue concrete legislative texts which are prepared, even submitted, delivered to the Council of State and can be submitted to Parliament. I want to ask a question about that. We all know that CD&V is not a asking party to refederalise powers. You can make this very concrete. You have one of those two ministers who will prepare these legislative texts. I would like to ask you very clearly here today: the commitment that will not help your Cd&V minister write out legal texts that refederalise powers, is that a commitment you can make here today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u125	Mr Loones, in the light of your Community expertise and interests, you are undoubtedly aware of our conference resolutions, in which there are no taboos. I have to tell you that my personal position on this is different from the congressional resolutions. We didn't transfer anything for no reason. We've often transferred because we couldn't get out of it. That we don't agree on that, we're not gonna hide that, are we? You heard Mr Calvo this morning. We do not agree on everything regarding the structure of the state, but we do want to work together to find a solution. Legal texts are not produced by one minister, and legal texts are produced by at least two ministers. Legal texts are prepared by two ministers and are subsequently adopted by the government as a whole when it comes to a draft. That is what we will be negotiating after we have consulted with the field of work. I cannot anticipate the end result. You know that it is not the ambition of my group to re-federalise. But you also know that we want to move forward and that we want to take steps. If we want to get out within the government's womb and achieve results, we will have to go into consultation with others. I hope, Mr Loones, that if we make efforts, you will also look at them with an open mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u126	Mr President, very briefly. You were concerned about the overloaded agenda of the Deputy Prime Minister. That is why the task of institutional reform has come to Mrs Verlinden, whom I wish her every success. You'll have a little more time as a non-vice prime minister. I suggest that you lighten her agenda even further and that you take everything that is refederalised from it by definition. Then it can focus on the essence and that is splitting those powers because this country is really not efficient. We're out of land. This country doesn't work anymore. Belgium is blocking. Let us put our energy into that and certainly Mrs Verdeinden's energy. It'll be a success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u127	Colleagues, I'm finishing up. This government is in favour of an efficient response to the health crisis. This government is going for a strong re-launch policy. This government is going for a human but also for a sustainable economy. This government is going for a strong security policy. This government is going for a strict, humane and also respectful migration policy. This government is in favour of fair taxation. This government is in favour of a balanced approach. We recognize ourselves in this agreement. We don't feel hostage. We support this agreement, Prime Minister, with conviction. And with a great deal of common ambition, all our group will give you tomorrow, you and all your team, the confidence. We all wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u128	Mr Verherstraeten, you mentioned it. You recognize yourself in this agreement. We know that in the negotiations you have effectively pulled a lot out of it and this on the hood of 500 women who go to the Netherlands every year to get an abortion there. On the hood also of the women's movement, I think, in general, which has been going on for many years, I cannot stress enough, and ask that the abortion law finally be adapted to the needs of women and to the right of women to self-determination. You've also talked a lot about respect. I think it is effective about respect for the idea that is widely supported by a lot of people, including in Flanders, that it is up to the woman to decide whether or not she is going to have abortion. I have read what is in the coalition agreement. You didn't really talk about it. But if I understood correctly, after you blocked it several times, you stuck the law firmly in the freezer. Unless there's a consensus among the government parties. That's what it says. There has also been talk here of respect for Parliament. I think there have been other times when there has been effective respect for Parliament. It is also like this when the CD&V was not in the government and Parliament was able to express its opinion that the first steps in the abortion law were taken. My question to you is: do you think, with what is in the coalition agreement, that you respect the choice of women to have an abortion or not? Secondly, what exactly does it say? And what's the CD&V gonna vote for? Are you going to vote effectively on an amendment to the abortion law or have you got it right in the freezer and will we not talk about it anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u129	Mr President, it is a little strange that I have a very different reading from Mrs Merckx. Although, that's not so strange, in life I often think so. But, Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to make two points, which you have clearly not mentioned in your entire speech. However, two of the things that you wanted to push forward very hard, and that is indeed your agreement, I do have difficulty calling it 'ethical issues'. Now, get this straight. I know that you, and certainly your President, have done everything in your power to reach an agreement. I also know that without you, a train would have left by now. But you also know that without us and without the other Flemish parties representing that majority who are not a asking party in Flanders, that train would have left by now. What you are doing now, and that is why I understand that you do not mention it, is a great deal of confidence in your new partners. I have three specific questions, Mr Verherstraeten. As far as abortion is concerned, the text on the Ethical Agreement states that an independent multidisciplinary scientific committee will be set up, with immediately thereafter in brackets, and I can already imagine how that took place at the table, designated only by the parties that form part of the government. So, independently designated by only the parties that are part of the government. That can't be a coincidence. Should the fake news monitor that this government is apparently about to start already exist, they would have that self-defense monitor taken out by now. After all, you know very well that you are one, mathematically not needed in the debate but two, that you are standing there in opposition to the ethical views and, in fact, the lack of support and debate on ethical issues, to your partners. You know this because you have just as much annoyed yourself as I have about the non-debate on abortion in the committees. You know that. What I am wondering is: explain to me how this phrase, independently but only indicated by the parties, should actually be read. Secondly, the expert group which will evaluate all the ethical legislation, which I think is very good of Mr Van Hoof that she has gotten it, because there is an urgent need to do something about how it will be put together. If that only happens to the members of this government, I can already tell you that Wim Distelmans has been able to evaluate his own evaluation committee, which he has been chairing for decades, and if that is the way you have got rid of yourself with a brat, then it will be a painful matter. Second question: there is a need for consensus on the part of the government parties before ethical initiatives are taken. But what are you going to do if the PVDA are ready, and they are already ready, of course, to draw up their ideological texts tomorrow in the committee? What are you gonna do? Because I do know what some of the others of the French-speaking parties are going to do. They're gonna vote. That is so sensitive on the other side of the language border. They are so convinced that this must be done, that they are going to vote. Then what are you going to do as a mathematically redundant party in this government? Thirdly, Mr Verherstraeten, and I am sorry to have to ask you that question, because I think you are a really cool person. In fact, I found you incredibly strong in the ethical discussions in the Justice Committee. You have provided a legal basis for everything in it that unfortunately the initiators were not present. That is why you have not received any answers to the, I think, at least 98 questions you asked there. I thought you were really strong there. Of course, you were strong because you weren't sitting there alone. You were sitting next to my group. You were sitting next to CDH. You were sitting next to the Flemish Interest. So you weren't sitting there alone. You're on your own now, and I hear you talk a lot about trust and respect. There was never any respect for you in those discussions. I like you. I'm sorry to ask, but how naive can you be? That's my third question. D
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u130	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, I have remained a little hungry. We knew by now that the voter's signal was ignored by this government, but in your intervention you have said one sentence about migration policy. As if the migration is a small detail for this government. It's like migration is something that doesn't really wake up a lot of people. Now, I can tell you, not only on the basis of my own experience, but also on the basis of the election results of 26 May 2019, that migration is certainly something that is certainly in the minds of a majority of the Flemings, but also, as I said in Parliament last week, in the minds of a majority of French speakers and of the Walloons, but also in the minds of Brusselsers. It's something that really wakes them up, something that they face every day. You are talking about the good arrangements, the good atmosphere, the nice working methods that have been agreed in this coalition agreement and with this purple-green team you are attached to with the CD&V. But what concrete agreements have been made on migration? I am afraid that there will not be many, otherwise you would have shown it during your speech. What we do read in the coalition agreement are a number of agreements on what is being relaxed. What is actually loosening up our migration policy, starting with the fact that no more families are being locked up in closed return centres. This will make the return of illegal migrants even more difficult. Secondly, the fact that we should no longer use development aid, the money from Flemish and Walloon taxpayers given to third countries as a lever to send illegal and criminal migrants back to their countries of origin. That is also made impossible by this coalition agreement. For example, there are a number of other things, such as, for example, the law on residence in the event of illegality which you did not get through and which Mr Calvo even shot off this morning. That's just not gonna happen. Then I wonder: what guarantees do you have that your Minister Mahdi's promise will be met? That the returns of these illegal migrants will indeed increase? What good agreements, to quote you, have you made in that respect? I haven't heard of that. What do you say to that majority of Flemings who voted with migration as their main topic, and who you completely ignored during your intervention? I sincerely wonder, Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u131	Mr Verherstraeten, you are not finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall first answer the last question. I can only refer to the government agreement in this regard: faster procedures, faster asylum procedures. Secondly, also focus on expulsion if one is not rightly and without a permit. But all this in respect of international law and human rights. Our competent structures must be evaluated and tackled in order to see if this can be done more quickly. And yes, the law on admission is not in it, but the ambition to get better figures in terms of expulsion. This may require additional resources. That requires agreements with other countries. That requires alternatives, because that's the big difference between you and me. Evictions may be inevitable, but any expulsion that we can avoid by finding alternatives, by allowing people to voluntarily go back and get opportunities in their country of origin, we will always focus on that first. And if expulsions have to happen, then they have to happen. But that will always be respectful and respectful of human rights. I come to the questions of colleagues Merckx and Van Peel. There too, I have no choice but to refer to the coalition agreement. The text of the coalition agreement is quite clear in that respect. There will be an independent multidisciplinary scientific committee designated by the government conducting an investigation. Mr Van Peel, I do not think that is contradictory, an independent committee designated by the government. If, by definition, and in advance, you consider specialists on the ground to be dependent because they have been given their mandate by the government, then I think you are compromising many people in many different areas, including ethics. They can give their advice independently on behalf of a government. Second date. We await their opinion before we can proceed to the vote. And that is also an answer to your question. Mr Calvo said this morning to the Flemish Christian Democrats: what you think about the state structure is not entirely my thoughts, but I have made arrangements with you and I will honour them. I could have answered him immediately: on other points, I do not think like you, but we have made agreements, and I say to both the green family and the blue family and the red family: those agreements, even if they may not be a copy of our party's congress resolutions, we will honour those agreements. Why? Because we can only form a team if we consider each other's sensitivities. And we will do the same with regard to this dossier. And that's what the coalition agreement says.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u133	Mr Verherstraeten, I have asked you a very clear question. I have pointed out to you that there are some issues in the government agreement that will further reduce return rates. However, you have said, through your own State Secretary, Mr Mahdi, that these returns are going to increase. So I wonder, along with a lot of Flemish and Walloon voters who are concerned about migration, how, for God's sake, you will increase those migration rates, which return rates of illegal migrants. What measures are in favour of this? How are you going to deliver on that promise? The answer you give is nothing. You say two things. Firstly, Mr Van Langenhove, we are going to organise it more humanely. All well and good, I too, like all my fellow Members, like everyone in this hemisphere here, am very much in favour of a very humane and correct human migration policy and return policy. But what the hell does that have to do with increasing return rates? I wonder where exactly you will make the difference because you were also in the previous government. Wasn't that a human migration policy? Mr Verherstraeten, where exactly is the difference with the new policy that will be pursued? How will that affect those returns? The second point you are making is this. You say: Mr Van Langenhove, we have alternatives to this legislation on residence. We have alternatives to entanglement of family reunification and so on. But what are these alternatives, Mr Verherstraeten? You will then come with the voluntary return. That has always been the magic word in the migration debate. That voluntary return, that's the solution to everything. Then we don't have any more problems, then we don't have to organize much as a state. If for once all these illegals just go back to their country of origin voluntarily. Of course, that would be very easy. But what do we see in reality? That that's a fiction, a fairy tale. That's not gonna happen. And that is certainly not the case, Mr Verherstraeten, if you take out the forced return again. Why would an illegal migrant ever go back to his country of origin if you don't even have a stick behind the door? Why would a migrant ever voluntarily return to his country of origin if he knew there would never be a forced return? You can only have a decent voluntary return if there is a decent forced return, Mr Verherstraeten. So I would really like to know, for all those voters who voted on migration as the most important subject, how on earth can you call in the help of your minister and of your fellow Members who will raise returns with a government agreement that will only contain measures that will reduce those figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that Mr Van Langenhove did not read the coalition agreement on this part and that he did not listen to me just now either. We don't rule out forced return. If that's what it takes, it will. But you can't blame us for this. If you do, it won't take us away from other ideas. If we can solve it in different and more human ways, then we will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u135	I'll let my good colleague Verherstraeten rest for a while, he's earned it more than he deserves. No, I would like to address you before Mr Hedebouw gets the floor. We have had a very long day here today and we are not yet at the end of our Latin, thanks, among other things, to the many interventions in which the various Members of this House exercise their right to speak. That's the spirit. The prime minister has seven vice prime ministers, some will refer to a fairy tale. I must say that they follow the debates very neatly, as they should. I appreciate that, but I think that's the way it should be. Mr Calvo, for example, mentioned the importance of cooperation between the government and Parliament. Who I do miss now, and in fact for a long time now, is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Service and Public Enterprises. I note that she is about to participate in a TV show. I want to give her all the space to do so, in all circumstances, but I think that's actually inappropriate. I would appreciate her at least available. Minister Vandenbroucke sometimes also leaves the Chamber, but I fully understand that. One cannot be here all the time. But the minister is always around. Mrs Wilmès has now left the Chamber, but she is usually here and I assume she is in the immediate vicinity. She could be summoned here right away. So six out of seven vice prime ministers do that very neatly. However, from the Ecolo-Green Group, I believe that it should also be available in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u136	Yes, indeed, Mrs De Sutter is taking part in a TV debate. If you have any specific questions for her, I'm willing to answer them. She will then be here and can answer the questions. I note that it is a quarter to seven and that we have four more speeches and then all kinds of thematic debates. The advantage of slowing down, but that is not a criticism, is that it will certainly be present later and will be able to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u137	That's right. She did, but it is now actually up to Mr Hedebouw. There are not four more speakers to go, Prime Minister. There are six more to go. So it's progressing. It goes, I won't say surprisingly well ahead, but it goes forward, and I think that if Mr Hedebouw doesn't make a point of that either... The government is represented here with a lot of members and Mrs De Sutter will be joining us in a moment. That's what she's been saying. So unless Mr De Roover asks for a suspension of the sitting on which I shall then consider it, I would suggest that we give the floor to today's seventh speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u138	I will not ask for suspension, Mr President, I have made my point. However, I would like to say that I do not think it is an expression of respect and I would have liked the Prime Minister to address it, because if it were for an important matter relating to her role... a television broadcast seems to me in this circumstance and today not really an appropriate excuse to be absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u139	Prime Minister, my first major problem with the Vivaldi agreement is that people voted a year and a half ago for a break with the politics of recent years. If there is a signal that was clearly given, on May 26, 2019, it is that of a population that wanted a break with past politics. People wanted change and, certainly, change over all social skills. What's the problem? The policy you are proposing here is simply to continue with the policy of the Swedish coalition. That the Vld is happy with that, I understand. Open Vld says: we keep the Swedish legacy, with more competitive companies thanks to the wage standard law, with the reduction of corporate tax, with the pension reform, with the retention of the reduction of charges and the tax shift. The Vld is very happy to do with what one has always done: I can understand that. But let the left parties sign that, come on! I don't understand. People voted for a breakup. People voted for a break with a bar to the left in relation to the policy of the "Swedish". How could you accept an agreement when those of the VLD are saying: "It's good we keep going, we're happy, we're happy, tax shift, we're happy, labour market reform, we're happy, pensions at 67, we're happy!" That, I do not understand, because there was a historical moment: votes had been cast in favour of a break, the balance of power was present on various dossiers: yes, the pension at 67 – I am going earlier – it is not a detail, yes the pension at 1500 euro, it is not in detail, yes, the increase in wages is not a detail. I'm not saying here that everything is bad. I'm not saying everything's bad. The 1.2 billion for the healthcare sector is a positive point. That 2.5 % growth standard, that's a positive point. Okay, it's also because of the battle that the sector of white rage went to get that, but I appreciate that. The fact that there are 7 women out of 14 in the government is a positive signal. But the main aspect of this break-up has not come, and that is really regrettable, because that signal to the left, to the workers' people, to all those people who had hoped for a break-up, is not there. And that really is a problem. Give me permission to go over some of the issues raised in the agreement. Mr President, pensions were discussed earlier. The 67-year-old pension was a common struggle of the whole left to say, "We want a return to the pension at 65." Elio Di Rupo, president of the Socialist Party at the time, had even made it a point of rupture. That remains true. He said in 2015: "We will bring the pension back to 65 years." On May 14, 2019, he said: "The PS is committed to leading a fierce fight to return to the legal pension at age 65." A week before the election, the total, he pulls out the big artillery, the big lie, we don't care, we throw the sauce and what Mr. Di Rupo tells us? "I'm making a point of rupture sine qua non for the rise of the PS to the government: pension at age 65." At the sp.a I had also heard that that was an important point for you. May I quote you for a moment? Quote of my comrade Meryame Kitrir: "Reduce the retirement age to 65 years is a breaking point for us. There is no basis to work up to 67 years. That's what Meryame Kitir said on April 24, 2019. Breakpoints! Breakpoints! That is an important point. I fully agree that a programme cannot be fully achieved in negotiations. That's obvious, it can't be. It's coalition formation. You have the power ratio you have. But a breaking point in politics and certainly for left-wing parties, especially for those who are in contact with the working people: that is something very important. There must be respect for that and I am truly sorry that such a point, a breaking point, is so easily broken today. I know that Mr Vandenbroucke, who is now Minister of sp.a, felt that it was not a bad idea to work for up to 67 years. So there is a debate on that within sp.a. But that was not your party's position at the time, Mr Vandenbroucke. Your party didn't think it was about working up to 67 years. If there is such an important evolution in the doctrine, then it must be clarified with regard to the working population. They need to know what it's about. The 65-year-old pension issue is not just an election promise, it is also a necessity. Firstly, it should be noted that in the vast majority of European countries the pension is 65 years old, whether in Denmark or in Italy, in Spain or Ireland, it is 65 years old. There are two countries in Europe that have grown to 67 years, in addition to Belgium. Why, Prime Minister, we want to reduce this pension to 65, I will tell you the right and simple reason. Why? It's that in the face of death, we're not equal. Life expectancy, the difference in life expectancy between someone who has a university degree and someone who does not have a university degree, who has a primary degree, do you know how much it is in Belgium? Fifteen years. Fifteen years of life expectancy of difference in good health. It's huge. And that's why we, the left, were proud – and we're always proud – to fight so that we could have a reduction not only in the starting age, but also – and let me introduce this before giving the answer because it's the second issue that is linked to it right away – that of the painful professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u140	Mr Hedebouw, I would like to stand up for that. When I look at this afternoon, we have actually had two kinds of discourse. We have heard people who show that it can also be useful in politics to listen to each other and to understand that a party does not always have all the truth. I thought Mr Calvo was actually a good example of this. In order to reach out to other parties and also to indicate the way in which other parties are respected. The other speakers, who, in fact, only use every intervention to point out contradictions, to poke things up and to make caricatures of them. In my view, there is absolutely no doubt as to which category you are in. You're in the category that's just looking for caricatures. And now you're here attacking my coalition partners and tickling a little bit. What you are trying to do is to say: but that is not enough! That is not a social policy. Look what we're doing in terms of increasing benefits. Look what we're doing in the area of raising pensions, a promise that so many parties have made. This is done in a gradual and sensible way. All you do is try to make caricatures of it because you know very well that your plans are totally priceless. That is the difference between what we do and what we do. What we are doing is increasing social benefits. But we also make sure it can be affordable. That's the politics we need to conduct. A policy of the center. And perhaps we should call it rather a policy of the broad centre, of parties that are not looking for contradictions. Of course, left-wing parties have different ideas about certain things than mine. That makes sense, otherwise we'd be in the same party. But this government's DNA is parties that listen to each other. Those are parties who understand that if one wants to realize something in today's world, one cannot do it alone. Someone alone or a party alone doesn't realize anything. Those who realize something today, those are those who do not make caricatures, who listen to each other and who work together. That's the government's DNA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u141	Oh, now you're going to have to give three and a half years of applause when De Croo introduces his right-wing measures to you. That won't be easy. That is a debate on the left, Mr De Croo. I know you're in favour of that. You're driving for the rich. I got that right. That is what you are doing in your programme and so on. But I have a debate here with breaking points around the left. I think that is an important point. That's not tickling. You think that tickles. There are contradictions in society. There are oppositions around the pension theme. I was talking about the 15 to 18 years difference in life expectancy in good health. That's a difference. My father's colleagues, steel worker with a bridge pension, are now dying, while other parts of the population can live under much better working conditions. Those are contradictions. I'm not inventing it. That's not tickling. That's the truth. Your then Minister Bacquelaine had promised to work for 67 years, okay, but there will be an agreement on the heavy professions. Did you once read the word "heavy professions" in the agreement? Not a word, not a word about hard jobs, it was essential as a question, this question of hard jobs. This was the condition for allowing workers, in many other sectors, to be able to breathe anyway. I was expected, in the government agreement, to see at least as a commitment, but there is none, there is none. And here you lied about the merchandise, in 2014, which I don't understand, and which I don't blame the parties that weren't at the time. But today, these painful trades, it's something important that you have to have in this agreement and I don't see it. The third element is the pension of EUR 1 500. The first positive point is that you have debated it for a long time, it has been an important point of discussion. I remind you that in September 2017, our president, Peter Mertens, launched our famous campaign for the 1,500 euros net at our "ManiFiesta" party. It was not clear that three years later this item would already be on the agenda. So it is 180,000 signatures that have been collected for our citizens' right to initiative, and I am glad that you have discussed them. But you must not be able to tell people the truth. You have to be able to tell the truth. Is it net or gross? Let's do the math together. EUR 1,580, Mr Vandenbroucke, I also take you as a witness, you know the subject: EUR 1,580 gross. That is what Mr Bouchez said. I think everyone agrees that there is an agreement on EUR 1,580 by 2024. How much is that net? 1 450 euros net is the agreement you signed. Number one. The second figure is for five years. Allow me to integrate inflation – out of respect for people, because you know, you don't eat with inflation. Let's take a small figure together: 1.5%. I want to be careful, I take the figure from the Plan Bureau and not from the European Central Bank, which says 2%. It wants to go towards 2%, but frankly, let's not exaggerate, let's be concrete: 1.5% inflation over five years. How far do we get? At 1,365 euros net, exactly, in purchasing power equivalence. 1 365 euros net. Today, the minimum on which no taxes are paid is 1,291 euros, as you know, the limit is 1,305 euros. 1 291 euros, so that's 75 euros more. That's the truth. We conducted the campaign for the 1,500 euros net, but today and now it will actually be 1,365. I didn't even tell you about the length of the careers. As you know, it's after 45 years of career... 90% of women don't have a career of 45 years. I said earlier that I found it very positive that seven of the ministers were women, and that is really a positive signal, but I would also like the policy that is being pursued to be women-friendly. Two thirds of workers do not have this 45-year-old career. So, yes! The demand of the left, the demand of the trade unions did not fall from anywhere. For the 40 years of career, it is of course also to take this into account. Last item... Geld. It's priceless. How much of our GDP are we paying for pensions today, Professor? 10.8 %. How much does Austria pay for its pensions today? 14.9 % of gross domestic product. Precisely what the Committee on Ageing predicts for the summit of ageing, which is going to cost us. Why can Austria do something today that we will not be able to do in Belgium in a few years' time? That's the debate. And so it is a debate and I shall come back to it later on for taxation, of course. Get the money where it is, but not the pensioners, not the pensioners, please! It was therefore understood that it was crude and not net. One can go on to the following point: wages. I'm disappointed. I am disappointed with the agreement today, because during the crisis of the coronavirus, we said: "the world will change". The heroes of the coronavirus, all those who continued to work, all those who were applauded at 8 p.m. – we always applaud them. We are going to raise their wages because they are in the most difficult sectors. I'm talking about garbagemen. I'm talking about the women who work in distribution. I'm talking about the nursing staff. I am talking about all these professions that are not sufficiently valued at the financial level. Little question in the room: do you have any idea how much an hour worker earns? No? 11.50 euros an hour. That's why we, the left, are being beaten for an important claim: that of having 14 euros an hour, because that's dignity, 14 euros an hour because it deserves it, 14 euros an hour because international fighting is playing on it. Many U.S. workers have obtained the minimum wage of $15 and can be commended. It is an important fight, I do not understand that such an important point is not even mentioned, if only as a goal (the famous "go to"). Worse in terms of wages, the wage freeze law is maintained. The Act of 1996, the Competitiveness Act. This 1996 law, which makes very concrete, ladies and gentlemen, that the margins of negotiation – do you have any idea what they have been in the last few years with this law? I'm talking to the left party, about linkse partij. Do you know what the standards were for agreeing to such a law? 1.1 % in 2019, 1.1 in 2017, 0.5 and 0.3 in 2015. Peanuts, peanuts! By taking over that law of June 1996 in the government agreement, you no longer give any room for manoeuvre for trade unions to negotiate anything. That is the great irony of the liberals. The liberals, for the whole economy, that is supply and demand. The invisible hand of the market. Adam Smith. Supply and demand. One might think: liberal thinking is that every worker, every servant, can have a demand-and-supply relationship in his company, in his sector, and that discussion between the patronage and the employee organisation can be entered into. There is one area in which politics intervenes, authoritarianly, in the market regulation, to say that something cannot happen: there must be no increase in wages here, and that is to say, in certain sectors, it must not be done with sanctions. That is where liberalism no longer plays. That's what politics is going to do, because it's not allowed. Even a pattern that would want to be in his company, because he's made good profits. Now take an example. Colruyt, because it's not a crisis for everyone with COVID. There are companies that have made a lot of money. Why can't Colruyt's employees ask for a raise? Why is that law going to do everything in its power to prevent them from even asking, not even 0.5 or 0.6%? When it comes to competitiveness, we've made a calculation under Charles Michel. In five years Charles Michel left 9 billion of the employees' domestic product to the employers. Nine billion, that's a lot of commonplace. The question is, of course, where is the wealth going? Competivity, what's going on here? Belgians: ah, we're going to compare with Germany. They reduce wages in Germany. You know, big dumping in Germany, dumping in France. What do we do? We're going down there, too. What are they doing in France? Ah, they go down in Belgium, too. What are they doing in Germany... That's how one gets a spiral down!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u142	The Prime Minister would like to interrupt you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u143	With great pleasure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u144	You know the name of the 1996 law, which is about the balance between competitiveness and purchasing power. You know why the law is there. That law is there to prevent us from exporting products instead of jobs. That is why there is this law and it keeps it in balance. We have had some problems with this in recent years, because there was a gap with other countries. That rift is gone now. Before the COOVID crisis, the level of activity in our country was higher than it has ever been. Unemployment has been at the lowest level in the last 30 years. Does that mean that we have to knock ourselves on the chest and say: there's nothing more to do? No, but that law, it worked. That is, I think, the difference between your party and mine. We realize that the competitiveness of our country allows people to keep jobs here. And do you know why it's so important to have jobs? That's because jobs serve our social security. Those jobs make sure there can be solidarity. You know that economic paradise cannot be built on a social graveyard. We'll probably agree on that. But one is not going to be able to build a social paradise on an economic graveyard either. And that's actually what that 1996 law does. The 1996 law strikes a good balance between the pursuit of social policy and the promotion of an economy that supports it. That's the difference. That is the balance that we stand for, and that balance is completely lost with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u145	I think the problem is that balance, Prime Minister. When I said that 9 billion had left the workers' pockets, you could have asked me the question: where is the money going? I would have given you the answer immediately: 12 billion to the shareholders. That's the bilan of Charles Michel's government. That's kind of my problem. You say: prices, prices, prices, but why don't you talk about the profits that are being made? Why are you not talking about the shareholders who are still asking for their money even in the COVID crisis? There's never a margin. The only variable that is taken into account is the money the employees get. I think that is quite unfair, Prime Minister. Really. You need to think a little bit about that, because your colleagues in France and Germany and Ireland follow exactly the same reasoning. They take it as an example. Look at the Belgians, they're the same examples. So the spiral down? Give purchasing power to the people. Give good, decent wages to the people. They are therefore going to have the economy produced. You must stop the myth that reducing wages is the solution. I believe that, after the COVID crisis, you are now simply going down that spiral for people's purchasing power and for their wages. Prime Minister, if you were in favour of freedom in the economy, you could simply give that freedom to the sectors. I have examples of Colruyt. Why can't the employees in Colruyt go for more pay? Why? Explain it! Why is democracy being undermined?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u146	I am not here to defend the policy of a previous government. But what happened to purchasing power over the last three years? Did it go up or down?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u147	That's a good question. I think it is a fantastic question you have asked, and I think the people will watch this video: why is the Prime Minister saying that we are all lost in purchasing power? And why? Because they've all been through it in their real lives. Do you really think everyone is convinced that they have more purchasing power in the last four years? Mr. Secretary, you're just living in another world! That is not the reality that is being experienced on the ground. Anyway, I don't think we'll agree to that. I asked another question: why should Colruyt's employees not ask for an increase? And you're gonna get in the middle of that. Efforts are being made, but what I am a little surprised at is that, in all the programmes of the left-wing parties, the demand to put social benefits above the poverty line was taken up again. And, for the little story, this point was even included in the Michel government statement. And here, we are even below the intention of the Michel government because we do not even repeat, in the government declaration, the claim to exceed social benefits. And from Charles Michel, I didn't have much confidence that he was going to do it, I mean, I can hear you. And it's clear, they didn't. Zuhal Demir broke the garbage claim like nothing at all. But still not with left-wing parties, because there are still left-wing parties in the coalition. It is only about reaching the poverty line. The debate goes no further than that. Why does the government statement of the "Vivaldi" go in the words, in any case, less far than Charles Michel's government statement? Frankly, for me, it is inexplicable at the level of organizations that fight poverty. I think that this is an important point here, namely the text you are presenting to us today, and I would like to read it out. In terms of flexibility of work, I quote: "There will have to be a better balance between their work and their occupation. The agreement announces that it wants – I quote – to make a priority to increase telework, flexibility and autonomy for workers." Flexibility! But finally, dear comrades. We don't need more flexibility. There is already so much flexibility. Let us stop portraying flexibility as something positive for workers! Do you know how flexibility is going in real life? Not in the life of the liberal bisounours, where everyone says: "Today I want to work three hours in the morning, there I will take two hours in the afternoon!" This isn't real life! Do you know how it goes, liberals, flexibility? It's more like: "Hallo, Robert? Yes, say, I need you tomorrow two more hours, can you come?". And what does the worker say? What do you think he answers the worker? "Oh no, I don't have time, I have something else to do, I have my son playing football, I have my daughter playing football too, I want to see my wife, my grandmother..." You think he says that on the phone? No, that's in a democracy. But there is no democracy on this point in Belgium. How long has the worker been equal to his boss? "Robert, are you coming? - Yes, sir, I'm coming! (I don't want to lose my job!)' "I don't want to lose my job." That's what happens in a lot of companies. I can tell you thousands of stories like this. And what can people do about this situation? That's the law. That is the law and the balance of power of the unions. The law that can say, no, you can't go so far in overtime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Just to put Mr Hedebouw in front of his contradictions: a few moments ago, he told us about the 1996 law and the fact that, in the end, trade union delegations, employers and employers were prohibited from negotiating. But here, if you get back to the agreement, if you read it in full, word by word, page by page, without extracting certain elements from it at your discretion, you will see what the chapter on telework – the one you are talking about, where there is indeed talk of flexibility, but within the framework of telework – says in this chapter, what this paragraph says: "With this in mind, the government will develop, together with the social partners, an inter-professional framework allowing more flexibility, while guaranteeing the protection of workers". It will therefore be with the social partners, Mr Hedebouw, and not directly imposed by law on the world of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u149	If I understand correctly, there is a government commitment here, namely that if there is no agreement between the social partners, there is no law that will pass on flexibility. I can hear the agreement, here I think we can congratulate ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u150	Mr President, today, Mr Hedebouw, telework, which has been widespread in the context of the crisis that we know and have known, has been done almost without beacons. The aim is to ensure that, tomorrow, telework, which will continue to be heavily used, because there are demands, and in particular certain demands from workers who have felt that they are finding a better balance in their daily lives, this telework, which today is almost not regulated or framed, either tomorrow, in collaboration with social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u151	Mr. President, the string is a little bit big. I was talking about the flexibility of working hours, etc. We're talking about telework and I'm the first one to be open to a debate about work during the VOCID period. I'm talking here about the annualisation of overtime, I'm talking about all these debates, not telework. Everything that has been put in place by Charles Michel's government, flexi-jobs, etc. That's what I'm talking about right now, no telework!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u152	No, but you pull a piece out of the text and make him say something he doesn't say. This is not the letter of the agreement, it is not the spirit of the agreement either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u153	Mr Hedebouw, you have just proved what I said earlier: that you reduce each debate to pure caricature. Prove that's not true. Use an argument that is in the agreement, instead of using cartoons that are totally false.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u154	Here, the world of work is happy to learn that there will be no additional flexibilisation without the agreement of the trade union organisations. I can hear you right here. I tried to take your sentences for what they are, since you say you increase telework and flexibility. If you say that if the trade unions don't agree, it won't happen, so better, it's okay, it's an agreement here, we heard it. This has been done in front of the people and there will be no increase in flexibility. I wasn't talking about telework, I was talking about flexibility, I mean it. Another important aspect of the labour market is the long-term illness. This is still a very important problem because, with the increase in pressure for the end of pre-pensions, especially related to difficult jobs, the end of conventional pre-pensions, many people have found themselves in long-term illness because they could not. The figures are really impressive: in 2010 we went from 280,000 long-term patients to 450,000 today. Really. From 280,000 long-term sick in 2010 to 450,000 today. That is where we have a social problem. Almost 200,000 people are otherwise long-term ill. And what do I read in your budgetary tables? There wasn't much in it, I must say, Minister. Really, an A4 guy, that's not much, is it? But I could tell you that you want to save 200 million on long-term sick people, is that at least correct, Minister? Mr. President, the figure of 200 million, do you confirm? We didn't have a lot of numbers but it was one: 200 million savings on long-term patients, you confirm the number?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u155	Of course, that's the way you look at it. The only solution you see for someone who is unfit for work is to keep that person as far away from the labour market as possible. Because those are your ideological glasses. While we see that as a talented person. We see that as a missed opportunity. And of course it's not about people who are long-term ill, who have cancer or who are seriously ill, but we see people as an opportunity. We want to give people opportunities, to reactivate employers and doctors to do something about it. That's the difference. You see that as a way to keep people inactive, and we see that as a missed opportunity, as talents thrown away. That's the difference. And that's the way we look at it. You're always gonna try to push people into the inactivity and we're gonna try to give people opportunities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u156	I asked a simple question. So the answer is probably: yes, you're going to save 200 million. Have you shared that experience in a bit of a concrete way? People telling you how that course goes? How does this happen in real life and not in the bubble of the Rue de la Loi, Minister? What's going on? There's pressure on cancer patients. I have examples of the last five years, of course! Mutualities come with numbers. It has clearly been shown that people are being pressured to get back to work. There are doctors who send us stories... Of course there's pressure. What life are you in, Minister? Come on, come and listen to these people. Of course there is this pressure, in the sense of: you have to go back to work. And of course, I want people to find work again, but in good conditions and in a situation where they can handle it. Those 450,000 people who are long-term ill today, do you ever consider that there is a social problem? Does it occur to you that there is a link between all the measures you have taken to abolish the end-of-jobs and those 200 000, dear fellow Members? What a figure! People who've just been working sick. That's the real life, Minister. This is real life, Prime Minister, and you still want to save 200 million euros on the backs of long-term patients? It's not serious! It's not a center policy, that... Last point on the labour market: unemployed workers. I know that for some, it's the return of the heart. At the time, someone talked about the return of the bleeding heart. This degressivity, the insertion allowances withdrawn from all these young people, still had to be a point of rupture. There have not even been any clashes in the negotiations on this subject. It must have been an important point. My colleagues on the right, when you put a jobless worker under pressure, when you take the bread out of someone's mouth - because here we're talking about taking 200 to 300 euros out of people's mouth, not the 5,000, 6,000, 8,000, 10,000, 11,000 euros that some politicians earn, I'm talking to you about the unemployed - since when does taking this away from unemployed people allow them to find work? Do you know what's going on with someone who takes the bread out of their mouths? He's not looking for a job anymore, he's trying to survive. Everyone who believes in these fables... Those myths... that taking the bread away from your mouth makes you look for work, they're just fables that are based on nothing in real life. And in this sense, this agreement should have come back to the various measures taken against the unemployed. Fiscaliteit. Ah, during the election campaign, I said to myself, it's gone, it's okay, there we're going to have it, the tax on the fortune. We've been talking about it in Belgium for 30 years, every election campaign we've been talking about. I still remember... I can also quote him, Mr Verherstraeten: Jean-Luc Dehaene (which is apparently a reference point today), there was already discussion about his overall plan. That was then: okay, the global plan goes on, but we're going to make the big fortunes pay. That was already a discussion back then, in Ohio93. But how happy are the center-right parties in the negotiations to do everything they can to get it thrown into the trash? How do they negotiate that? 'Cause it's always the same. That's always pushed forward, and then hop... in the trash can. There is no tax on wealth. Yet this is the answer to the question: "Where should the money come from? I am told that there are no money proposals. I've heard a lot of traditional parties talk to me about the return effect: you put a euro, you have two in return, you put in the piggy bank, it comes back... Economists don't believe it at all, but it's no big deal, you can swing everything. We, at least at the PTB, have a concrete proposal: a tax on wealth. More than EUR 1 million, 1%, more than EUR 2 million, 2%, more than EUR 3 million, 3%... There is a bill of more than 40 pages, everything is ready! But nothing, we don't do anything... Again, it will not be the great capital that will pay. I read in De Tijd today what was it again about a transaction tax of 150 to 300 million. For transactions of more than 1 million euros. But it's not an added value tax. Who should I ask in the government? So it's a transaction tax, but not an added value tax. So what's that about, these transactions? That's just like buying a house? What's in that? 300 million max. But even the Michel administration with the compte titres had 500 million standing. 300 million, but that's peanuts! And we're not even sure there is! Come on, there's a solution to a few billion.. There is the PS proposal of 2.4 billion which has been assessed by the Court of Auditors at the level of a wealth tax. If we need money for social policy, if we need money to solve the VOCID crisis, but we introduce this kind of proposal! I wasn't asking you to adopt the PTB right away! There is the PS proposal of 2.4 billion which has been assessed by the Court of Auditors at the level of a wealth tax. If we need money for social policies, if we need money to solve the VOCID crisis, go introduce these kinds of proposals! I wasn't asking you for the PTB's right now. Taxation, taxation... I thought we were going to go back to measures taken by the Charles Michel government which are unacceptable: VAT of 6 to 21 % on gas and electricity. It is always the same with the liberals: "We are anti-taxes, we are anti-taxes, we are anti-taxes!". Wait, you know what it's like to pay 15% in addition to VAT on gas and electricity? You don't think it's paying extra taxes, do you? You're the one who decided that, Mr. De Croo, you were already in the government. You were excited to increase VAT. Moreover, we learned earlier that "no taxes," at Mr. Piedboeuf's, it's just IPP, because everything else can be added! Do you really think you're gonna be able to fool people like that with such general phrases? Come on, we have to stop! People have become critical, you know. Really, there is an evolution in society today. People no longer trust the traditional political world. If you want to regain that trust, come with real words. Don't make a fuss. Anyway, we go behind to explain the truth, so don't try. I am coming, Mr President, and I have 7 more minutes. Ah, we've changed our president, I've got time. Mobility. I would like to support the decision to send SNCB money as a positive one. Really. I think it is important that, in this ecological crisis, so much, 500 million, should go to SNCB without discussion. I think this is very positive. There must be investment in SNCB. There must be investment in public transport. That is the solution for the future. Yesterday morning, I listened to the minister on Bel RTL drinking my cup of coffee and I thought to myself: "This is a minister who has convictions, who wants to defend the public service. And then does he not come to tell the radio that he will launch a pilot experiment of privatisation of the railways, in the image of the Netherlands? If you've never been to the Netherlands by train, I invite you to try. With privatization, prices rose by 25 to 40 per cent. Why are we going to import pilot experiments from the Netherlands? Colleagues in Ecolo, I regret, but I do not understand how you were able, in 2003, to endorse the liberalisation of the sector. You know that competition in railways will only lead to the conservation of profitable lines. A profitable line, it's a line that's full of people. That's right, making a profit. And again, when I get profitable, you're going to give the railways the freedom to fluctuate ticket prices. The offer and the demand: a ticket, the more you need it, the less expensive it must be. Why increase the price of the ticket when people need the train most, in rush hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u157	You're very good at telling jokes, Mr. Hedebouw, but you have selective readings. I'll read you this government agreement – you read it like me. He said in the matter of liberalisation: "The government will assign directly to SNCB, for a period of ten years, the public service mission of operators of the transport of persons by rail in our country, for the whole railway network". You are defending here the exact opposite thesis, according to which we will liberalize the railway, but you are mistaken. The agreement states, black and white, that this possibility of liberalising the railway, granted by a European directive, will not be used, and that the SNCB will be the railway operator for the next ten years, the maximum term allowed by the directive. What more do you need, Mr. Hedebouw? What more do you need? You're inventing stories and making intentions, but the facts are there. There is a very precise statement, which I will implement: the SNCB will be the single railway operator for the next ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u158	Can I infer from your answer that the pilot experience I mentioned earlier will not take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u159	You must infer from my answer, Mr Hedebouw, that SNCB will be the single railway operator for the next ten years and that is an assertion. You can, by 2024, re-examine us several times, but that's exactly what's going to happen. I assure you, your eyes in the eyes and on the basis of what is in this government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u160	Forgive me, Minister, I feel like an impression of a language of wood (of oak, beech, birch, we can discuss the type of wood, etc.).). I asked you the question, but it's not a detail. To conduct a pilot privatisation experiment has a purpose: it is still a question of whether, economically, there is a need to privatize the sector. You just told me you did. No? Just tell us that there will be no pilot experience and we will be happy!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u161	Mr Hedebouw, why are you afraid that the sky will fall on our heads? The statement contained in this government agreement is as follows: for SNCB, we will make maximum use of what is possible according to European directives. We're going to give the longest time. SNCB will be the only public transport operator by rail for the next ten years. In what language should I tell you? I'll tell you in Dutch if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u162	Mr Hedebouw, Mr Gilkinet has just explained: SNCB is the single carrier, and we are doing a limited pilot experiment at the territorial level, to see what the effects would be, if it worked, and also to look at the level at which today's SNCB would be ready for a situation, at some point, when we might be forced to liberalise. What would be your problem of simply testing if, in a limited area, it could work or test if the SNCB actually improved in the services it offers, if it is more innovative, more efficient? Why would it be a problem to test this, Mr. Hedebouw?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u163	I feel good about you, Mr. De Croo. I see it well, because I know your background position, you have already developed it several times in the press: you want the privatisation of the railway... All right? You didn't make that statement in the press? Maybe it was at another time, when you weren't Prime Minister, it's fair. I agree. But I see you somewhere happy to say: "Here, I managed to bring into the agreement a small pilot experience, to compare the public service and its monopoly with private competition." I'll tell you why I think it's a bad thing. You'll compare apples and pears. If you only compare the private sector with the private sector, for example by taking the case of Great Britain or that of many lines in the Netherlands, you will only take the lines that "report tunes". What will remain for the railway and the SNCB? The question of this competition is that obviously small lines are not going to be profitable. I can already tell you, they're not going to be profitable. You're going to have the Liège-Brussels, Antwerp-Brussels lines, all these hyper-rentable lines, it's those parts that private people are going to take. You'll see. In the Netherlands, they first closed many small lines. Comparing the business between the Netherlands and Belgium, the Netherlands has closed the majority of its small lines. Fortunately, this is not yet the case with us – it is already partly the case in Belgium, but it is not yet the majority. Over there, they cleaned everything up, and hop! People take the road. So you have understood, Prime Minister, and I am glad that Mr Gilkinet was responding clearly to say that there was this pilot privatisation experiment. I felt it was hard to get out for you, Mr. Gilkinet. But it's normal, you split the communication roles a little bit...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u164	You're trying to find a contradiction where there's none...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u165	Minister, I just said that there was no contradiction between you two. I hear very well, you agree on that! Even if Mr Gilkinet had a little harder to say than you, but there is no contradiction, I agree, you agree on the substance. There's no problem! Health, I said it in the intro: good news that 1.2 billion will be added. And good news that these growth standards of 2.5 % are in them. I want to underline it here: it's good news. That's the news from the fight. There's been a fierce battle. My comrade Marco just spoke about it: when they came up with the first amendment, everyone was enthusiastic. That amendment was supported by the left-wing parties sp.a., Green, PS and Ecolo. That was a backup we went to get together. Also with the battle with the white fury sector. It was a little less enthusiastic on the right flank, but shit. That's where we made $400 million. After the COOVID crisis, with the battle of the white-collar sector, 600 million more. And another 200 million is added for health, well-being... That's very positive. Really. I'm a little scared where the money's gonna go. But that is a debate for the weeks and months to come. How much of that budget goes to the pharmaceutical sector? That's still a discussion. It's still open. But when one sees what the monitoring committee's projections are, 6.4 billion to the medications. This increases more and more, not only through consumption but also because big pharma almost has a monopoly on many of those medications. We have a concrete proposal in Parliament: our Kiwi model. Let the competition play. Use our collective purchasing power of social security to break that monopoly by allowing that competition to play. If you are going to buy paracetamol from Kruidvat or elsewhere in the Netherlands, why is that four times cheaper than in Belgium? Why, ladies and gentlemen? I'm gonna say it. Just because there's that competition playing with half a Kiwi model. Of course, that's just for paracetamol, that's not for all medications. Let's introduce that model here. That's a 600 million-dollar model. That is a concrete proposal from the Labour Party of the PVDA. That's not copyright, that's "c opy-left." Take all of that. That is a concrete proposal. That's what we're going for. Secondly, in the area of health care, it is clear that I am not going to come back to the debate for very long. I do not understand when I am told that regionalization of health care will bring policy closer to people. The seat of government, where is it? Rue de la Loi. What about the Flemish government? Martelarenplein. 600 meters! That's closer! How will regionalization of health skills bring policy closer to people? There are differences everywhere. In Wallonia and Flanders, there are differences between rural and urban areas. There is no reason to approach this in a regional way. Brussels certainly has its specific features. I do not deny that there may be differences, but these differences, they are national, they are not regional. I can imagine that health care and hospital policy is different in Luxembourg and Liège. That makes sense to me. Density is not the same, pathologies are not the same, etc. But why approach this in a regional way, if not to enter into political competition, budgetary competition, competition that eventually led to chaos, as we saw with the crisis of the VOCID. In Belgium, it's always the same thing: you take a minister, you divide it into three, and within five minutes of the decision, what do you decide? To re-establish an inter-federal meeting, because we still have to talk to each other! This is the case with health care, with the climate, with the hydraulic channels... Every time we divide, then we reunite! Why? Because the Scheldt doesn't stop in Wallonia. Only we believe that, the fish, he continues his way, he does not take care of administrative boundaries... So, rather than subdivide, let's put the essential things back at the federal level, including health care. I'm going to finish with nuclear power. We will close the nuclear, except - and there it is written in small letters - if there is not enough energy available. Friends of ecologists, I hope you have understood well what trap "they" lock you in... Don't worry... Because it has been known since 2002, that nuclear power is shut down, unless there is not enough energy. But what's the problem? What's the problem? Because this issue of nuclear power plants is still undecided, there can be no investment in renewable energy. Eneco's pattern is clear on that. Why would he invest in windmills if he does not know whether or not these nuclear power plants will continue to operate? That's not fiction, by the way. During the COVID crisis, electricity demand fell sharply at one point because the business world was immobilised. What happened when that demand dropped? What do you think we closed? Nuclear power plants or the 140 wind turbines at Eneco in the North Sea? I'll tell you! Wind turbines of course! Electrabel said we had to keep producing. The problem with nuclear power is that it prevents new investments. So we're in the spiral... they're negotiating quietly with Electrabel, etc. so we don't have the capacity when it's necessary. And then we'll say we're keeping the nuclear. The solution is public investment! I do not understand that we continue to believe that the market economy will continue to solve our environmental problems. That's not possible. The profitability of these new energies is not at hand. There has been such a capital accumulation of nuclear power that it is not possible to trust the market. If you retained something from the mobilization of young people two years ago, it is that we need a political will to break this market economy that thinks only of profit. We need to move towards a carbon-neutral economy that will serve people. The market won't solve that; it needs massive public investment. I will close by exposing to you the type of opposition you will have in front of you for the next three years. Because there are different types of opposition here in Parliament. So you have the Vivaldi government and you have that right wing. A right-wing separatist wing where it is intended to divide man. To say that everything is the fault of the Walls, of the migrants, of the dopers, of the unemployed, of everyone really. At NV-A, that has become almost everyone. We're not that kind of opposition. We are a positive opposition, a social opposition, a binding opposition to restore hope to the people. We must give that hope. We will, of course, come up with fundamental criticisms in the years ahead. That is also our role, and you must understand that. The distrust of the population is so deep that there is a clear need for an alternative. We hope that the struggle we are going to have with many different components in society will force the government to find better solutions. We have had the example of the white fury sector and the Blouses blanches Fund. We will mobilise. We'll be critical. We will come up with proposals. We will also hope that the struggle in other countries will also help us. We are here today in the European Parliament. We're in the European Parliament for once. It may also be an opportunity to appeal to all the peoples of the world. You will have understood, dear comrades from France, Spain, Germany and Great Britain, that our policies use your victories or defeats against us in terms of wages. That your victories, we can use them to convince them to have social advances. There is a European Union that is being built today, that is money. A European Union that, when it is built today, is above the people and thinks only of the free market and these big multinationals, the "Volvo" and the company. But there is another European Union, that of the peoples who are fighting. I'm talking about these Spanish women fighting for the right to abortion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u166	Thank you, Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, it is always interesting to listen to you. Why is that interesting? Because you're convinced of your story. You are a proud communist and that is always interesting to listen to. But what I find so special in this country is that the power and the truth of pride is not recognized by everyone. Where is this Walloon pride? Have you really been waiting to have another Minister of the Interior who comes from Flanders to guarantee security in Wallonia? Have you really been waiting for a Flemish Minister of Justice again to check the rule of law in Wallonia? Do you really need a Finance Minister from Flanders to conduct a Walloon tax policy? Social affairs, health care: a Flemish minister who will tell us what is happening in Wallonia. Where's that pride? Where's that power? You can do it yourself! Wallonia is a fully-fledged democracy with 3.6 million people who are perfectly capable of taking control of that own future and moving forward. Let's go! Let's go! Give them that pride. You're a proud communist, well, find that Walloon pride. You'll all grow in it, and that's our story. That's not a story of division. That's a story of taking chances, of knowing what you can do, of being proud of your identity, of being open in the world. I call upon you to expand your story. Feel free to remain a convinced communist, which is always a pleasure in Parliament, which brings some ambiance but adds a deeper layer to it. Know what your identity is and take your strength out of it. This country's gonna be better off.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u167	Speaking of identity, Mr. Loones. When you said, you in Wallonia, I thought, "Is he talking about me?" But I'm not Waal, I'm just Belgian! I'm just a left-wing man of the world. But I'm not Waal! Why are you interrupting that? I was elected by the Belgian people. I feel good in Liège. Yeah, but you guys have a problem, but I don't. I feel good in Liège, in Antwerp, in Ghent, in Brussels, everywhere, everywhere. I'm fine. No, no, wait. When I'm in Antwerp with the dock workers, when I'm in Antwerp with the people who work in the emergency, when I'm in Antwerp with all the people, with the workers, I'm at home there. I'm one of them. I'm not a Waal from Flanders. I'm one of them. Mr President, we are proud to be workers in Belgium, we are proud of the workers in Europe, we are proud to be workers in the world and we are not locked in small identities like this. How better to end a speech than by this class identity, which is important. And it will be important in the years to come because you (...) You of the N-VA try to divide the people, you of the Flemish Interest try to divide the people, to make them think that their problems are downstairs, to go knocking them down. To hit the migrants downstairs. To hit the unemployed downstairs. To hit the employees downstairs. But the solution is upstairs. We should check upstairs. I'm not gonna convince you. But those I am going to convince are the workers in Flanders and Brussels and Wallonia. The problem is upstairs. Never before has there been as much wealth in Belgium as today. Every year 12,000 new millionaires in euros. Well, I'm telling you, if we're gonna solve such problems, we're gonna have to change our society and then we're gonna have to get the money where it is. I thank you, and we will continue the fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-02-55-plenair-ip059x.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a number of speakers in the general section, but I have to suspend for 30 minutes, including for staff. I can't help myself. It's ten to eight now. I suggest we start again at 8:20. With a lot of sense for synthesis. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, October 2, 2020 at 8:20 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 2 October 2020 at 8.20 p.m.
