ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u1	Colleagues, Minister, my very best wishes to you, your family and your friends.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u2	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of course I would also like to express my best wishes for the new year. In whatever way that may be, within politics, outside politics, you choose. After all, I read a press release once that you had stopped politics, Minister. That will depend on whether there will be a government or not. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u3	It's my fault? Okay, good. [[Laughter]] Recently, both Shell and the United Kingdom announced their intention to leave remains of oil, chemicals, steel and concrete from old oil platforms in the North Sea. That seems to me to be something that should not be decided by those two players alone. Such a decision will, of course, have an impact on all regions of the North Sea and even beyond. Both Germany, the Netherlands and the European Commission have already expressed reservations about the plan. The question is how does Belgium stand on the other side? To what extent has the federal government or its representative already taken a position on this? Are you prepared to discuss this in Parliament so that a supported position can be reached for the government in current cases? Has your administration already identified the possible effects on the quality of water, fauna and flora, fishing or other economic activities in our part of the North Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u4	Mr Minister, my best wishes, too. The context of the question has already been outlined by Mr Wollants. In September 2019, you said: "We demand absolute certainty about the impact on the environment and that Shell cannot give us at the moment." That was September 5th. I will then come to the meeting under the OSPAR Treaty. Was Belgium there? That was mid-October or October 18th according to other data. What exactly was agreed? The UK Government may require the platforms to be located in British territorial waters at any time to enforce a derogation from the OSPAR Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u5	Minister, I agree with the previous speaker. I just heard what he said and my question is the same. Last autumn, you made statements in the press about the consultation. I had the same question because I read in the press that the Netherlands made serious objections before the consultation. After that, however, I did not find any information. Hence the following questions. Was Belgium effectively present at the OSPAR meeting? Is our previously announced position defended there? What appointments were made? What is the further timing or what steps will need to be taken in this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u6	Thank you for your questions. I also offer you my best wishes for the new year. When that question came up in September, we were very critical. On the Brent drilling platform in its territorial sea in January last year, the United Kingdom announced its intention to carry out a comparative assessment and request a derogation from the normal procedure for fully dismantling the platforms to leave some of the structures in the North Sea. The United Kingdom relied on Article 3 of the OSPAR Decision 98/3 and consulted the participating countries in the OSPAR Convention. They have therefore followed the procedure in this area correctly. Shell's comparative assessment assessed the technical feasibility, safety, environmental impact, cost-benefit analysis and possible possibilities for using structures for other purposes. The assessment concluded that for safety reasons and the environmental impact, decommissioning had to be carried out only in part and that there was therefore a legitimate reason to apply for those exceptions. Germany initially objected to that proposal without making any real arguments. It was more of a legal step, but afterwards Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden and the European Union supported Germany in that objection. A further specific consultation was to be organised to which all participating countries were invited. Several observers have also applied for a more detailed explanation and the reasons for the derogation. In the run-up to the specific consultation scheduled for 18 October 2019, several stakeholders were consulted, also in preparation of the Belgian position. For example, VLIZ and KBIN were asked to test the content of the environmental impact, for example. On 14 October 2019, the Netherlands distributed a scientific analysis which provided various arguments as to why the derogation, as requested by the United Kingdom, should be considered, but there is also a clear analysis that demonstrates that complete decommissioning should be possible and that there are several options to partially remove the pollution by in situ remedial action, partly by removing biocidal products to a large extent in an economically responsible manner. The Netherlands has therefore called for a further investigation. Belgium also endorsed this at that time. We have formulated a position which highlights the long-term impact of such decisions. In granting a derogation the internal interests of the company Shell gain too much weight. There is a high degree of dependence on the whole cost. Surely there is a possibility of doing it in a different way. We have urged the British Government to consider this. There would also be much less environmental risks than the initial Shell report if sufficient research were carried out and the removal techniques that exist today were correctly applied. The long term has always been a very important aspect for us. What is missing here is the assessment of the long-term effects of decommissioning should that decision be invoked in other drilling platforms. As a reminder and for information, there are about 1,400 drilling platforms in the North Atlantic, 170 of which have now been dismantled, so we are talking about a significant number. In order to reinforce this message, I sent the Belgian position to OSPAR in writing before the consultation on 18 October. Then there was an oral explanation at the session itself by the Belgian representative who was present at the specific consultation where other countries also explained their position. Following this specific consultation, the United Kingdom has committed itself to further bilateral consultations with, inter alia, Germany. Although the United Kingdom ultimately has full decision-making rights in this case, it will still have to take into account the input of our country and other countries. In this respect, we have played our part throughout that Treaty and provided the information we consider necessary. As far as the effects that still have to be evaluated and which must be part of that decision are concerned, there is really no need for research on the North Sea, since everything is happening within the territorial waters of the United Kingdom. Our services no longer have any real impact there. In the process of consultation, we have played our part, as it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u7	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is important that we include sufficient guarantees and demands to ensure that this decision is not taken lightly. I think it is a good thing that we are moving in this direction, but if this were to continue, it could also be a milestone for the drilling platforms that are still in place today and that still need to be removed. As soon as there is a precedent, reference will be made to it in the future. This is a case in which we have to play briefly on the ball. There may not be any short-term effects on our part of the North Sea now, but it cannot be ruled out that these things would end up in our waters in the longer term. That is impossible to measure today, but it might be the case in a number of years. We must be vigilant in this matter. After all, we also make our own plans and have an obligation to maintain and maintain environmental quality and biodiversity in our part. Consequently, we must also be able to ensure that others do not compromise this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Shell is of course a huge company that is hugely committed to such matters. I refer, for example, to the six questions about the dismantling of the Brent platforms that Shell distributes on the Internet, which, of course, Shell has its own vision and focus. I'm glad you're playing your part in the consultation process. The long-term impact is indeed very important. The precedent value, as outlined by my colleague, naturally also plays a role. We will continue to follow up the dossier, including when it appears that the United Kingdom has committed itself to organising further bilateral consultations. It's an important file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have little to add to the replies, because what is said here is well founded. There may be little attention to this at the moment because it is only one case left, but you have quoted figures on the number of platforms still in the North Sea. That is why it is particularly important that we adopt and maintain that position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u10	Mr Minister, deep-sea mining is an aspect that Mrs Daems mentioned in part in this committee in October. Belgium promoted the protection of the oceans at the international climate summit in Madrid on Wednesday 11 December. Belgium is profiling itself internationally as a blue leader. Some organisations consider that Belgium, in its capacity as a sponsor for one Belgian company that received an exploration contract for deep-sea mining from the International Seabed Authority in 2013, undermines this profiling. Among the tasks of the Belgian federal government is to make the rules, regulations and procedures of the authority applicable to Belgian nationals and companies, to support the authority in the supervision of Belgian contractors and to draw up guarantee certificates for Belgian nationals or companies, in so far as they meet the technical and financial requirements. In May 2018, the company concerned submitted an environmental impact assessment to the Belgian government regarding the small-scale testing of components of module collectors on the sea floor west of Mexico and the environmental impact. Although the evaluation procedures for MERs or environmental impact statements adopted by the International Seabed Authority do not provide for a public consultation and the Belgian legislation on deep sea mining does not provide for an additional assessment by the sponsor State, the company was approached by the federal government in 2018 to participate in a voluntary evaluation and a public consultation agreed by the company. In the end, Belgium decided to support the test proposed in the Environmental Impact Assessment, because it would gain more knowledge about deep-sea mining, precisely because it is your duty to set the level of environmental standards as high as possible. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, what is the status of the review of national legislation on deep-sea mining announced at the end of 2018, taking into account lessons learned during the voluntary public consultation? This question was not asked by my colleague, which is why I felt it was worth asking them. Secondly, do you think that the international profile of Belgium as a blue leader is compatible with the facilitation by the Belgian government of obtaining exploration contracts by Belgian companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u11	Mr President, I can answer that question quite clearly. Precisely because we are blue leaders, we believe that there should be an international framework for deep-sea mining. We don't want cowboys to be active there. We want this to be done in a very sustainable and correct way, with minimal damage to the seabed. That is why Belgium, as a sponsor state of one of these projects, has also said that we must work effectively towards a clear international framework so that the rules of the game apply equally to everyone, to all countries in the world. That is why we have asked the company to participate in such a public consultation, to do so voluntarily, while this is not required by law. After all, we want to take a head start. Once again, we want to take very clear leadership in this area. That's why the company agreed to do that. There has been a discussion and different visions have been set out. In itself, that was very positive. We have also been able to demonstrate that the technique used by the Belgian company is fundamentally different from the technology used by other companies. As a result, this technique could have much less impact on what is happening in the oceans. In this respect, therefore, there is absolute compatibility with what we are doing at international level as a blue leader and in this particular case of deep-sea mining. Quite specifically, national legislation falls within the remit of the Minister for Economic Affairs, and my cabinet provides input on environmental aspects, and that is, of course, one of the most important discussions in this case. On the initiative of the FPS Economy, an evaluation of the Belgian regulations on deep-sea mining was launched in September 2019. Public administrations responsible for the marine environment, Science Policy and Foreign Affairs are involved, as are NGOs and Global Sea Mineral Resources. So we have again tried to bring everyone together in order to get that input. The purpose of this evaluation is to finalize a note which compares Belgian regulations with foreign regulations and which can be put forward within the International Seabed Authority. Moreover, it should reflect very explicitly the views of the organisations concerned, consider the role of public consultation, how this should be organised and who should be involved, and strike a balance between nature protection, on the one hand, and the economic and social interests of deep-sea mining, on the other. A Belgian company is still trying to take on a pioneering role. The intention is to produce this note in the short term and to submit it to the relevant ministers so that legislative initiatives can be launched shortly. That is the situation at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If we want to be a blue leader, we must indeed take a lead on deep-sea mining. Of course, there is the international legislative framework, but there is also national legislation. It is an important point of interest to me. An evaluation has now been launched. We are waiting for the note and we will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic082x.u13	There was also a question from Mr Senesael, but due to an error in the system that question did not appear on the agenda. Since Mr Senesael has already left, I propose that his question be converted into a written question. If he insists on an oral hearing, it will be for the next sitting.
