ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u1	Madam President, Minister, you have had the opportunity, during the last question-and-answer session here, to come back to the situation in Israel, where the new government announced its willingness to annex 30 per cent of the West Bank. You stated that this was a serious violation of international law. You have also announced that you have been thinking with other European states about how to deter the Israeli government from taking such measures and the answers to be given in case of an effective annexation. Mr Minister, I am particularly proud that our country has continued to play an important role, for several years, in guiding the European Union's actions in accordance with international law in the Occupied Palestinian Territory. There is an urgent need because the government was approved a little over a week ago by Parliament and this annexation could take place on July 1st. Minister, could you, a few weeks later, take another look at this issue? Has there been any progress in European reflection? Have any concrete avenues been put forward to anticipate and deter this annexation and, if so, to respond to it? Minister, thank you for your answers and the follow-up you will give to this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u2	Madam Chair, Minister, like Mr. De Maegd just recalled that at the previous question-and-answer session, you said to this committee that "the annexation of the West Bank would jeopardize the resumption of peace negotiations and undermine the rights of the Palestinians, an important aspect of our multilateral action. We are working with other European states to encourage debate in the Council of the European Union and to consider ways to deter the new Israeli government from taking such measures." Last week, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called for "progress" in the implementation of the Trump project for the Middle East, on the eve of the inauguration of this union government in Israel. Mr Minister, could you please indicate how the debates on this subject have evolved since then at the level of Belgian diplomacy and the European Union? The newspapers Le Soir and Le Monde indicated that countries of the European Union, including Belgium, would be tempted to raise threats of sanctions, while the new Israeli government intended to annex important parts of the occupied Palestinian territories. There would be significant disagreements between the Member States of the European Union. Could you then say more about your intentions in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u3	Madam President, Minister, last week, an Israeli government was set up, theoretically for a limited period of time, to combat VOCID. However, one point is the exception and can also be addressed by this new government, namely the issue of annexation of the Jordan Valley and the presence of Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank after validation by the US administration. Conforted by the Trump government and its "peace plan" which provides for this territorial annexation, one can fear that the Israeli government will decide to do so very quickly, in violation of international law. Moreover, if this draft annexation were to be voted on by the Knesset, it would mean the end of the already moribund peace process. In late January, when asked about the Trump administration's "peace plan", you recalled the illegality of unilateral annexation plans. In addition, last week Israeli parliamentarians wrote to their European counterparts expressing their fears and calling on the European Union to play a key role in the peace process. Finally, the press reported last week that some Member States of the European Union, including Belgium, were considering sanctions if this annexation were to take place. Minister, can you let us know what Belgium's position is on this issue? Is this item on the agenda of the next European Council of Foreign Ministers? Is there an interview with your Israeli counterpart to discuss the future plans of the new Israeli government with regard to the Palestinian territories?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u4	Minister, I agree with this question. On the international stage, the potential annexation leads to a lot of unrest. My fellow Members have already outlined this strongly enough. After the Foreign Affairs Council on Friday 22 May 2020, the EU High Representative Borrell announced that annexation would seriously violate international law and that the European Union would discourage any possible Israeli initiative to annex parts of the West Bank. Our country too has taken this position. Eleven ambassadors in Israel, including the Belgian one, have informed the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs that such action will have serious consequences. The question will be what these consequences will be and what we will do until 1 July 2020. Can you clarify how the European Union will discourage the annexation of the West Bank? What specific measures do you think the European Union should take in the event of annexation? What concrete measures will Belgium advocate and/or take itself in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u5	Madam President, I will join the questions asked by my colleagues, adding that hearings were held last week with two ambassadors, including the Ambassador of Israel. His remarks are not reassuring because he is not talking about annexation but rather about asserting sovereignty. What countermeasures have you considered? What are the initiatives at this level in terms of European coordination? Famous Israeli editorialist Gideon Levy expressed concern about Europe's lack of response and timidity, so I encourage you to respond. I also asked a more specific question about children. As everyone knows, Belgium has led a working group within the United Nations that focuses on children in armed conflict. Last week, three representatives of the United Nations alerted international diplomacy to the conditions of Palestinian children in prison. Has Belgium taken any initiatives in this regard? We remember the Defence for Children International (DCI) "non-hearing". Have any other measures been put in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u6	Minister, Israel does indeed have a new government. That is a very broad government, from religious and right-wing parties to a party far on the left in the Israeli political field. Now that there is a government, the possible plans with the West Bank could accelerate. That's also announced. Last week there was an exchange of views with the two ambassadors. Against this background, I would also like to place Mr Borrell's statement. What are the potential sanctions on the table in Europe? What is acceptable to Belgium? What steps does Belgium intend to take? Austria and Hungary are apparently not in line with other European countries. To what extent can the EU act as a block without the support of these Member States? On the contrary, other Member States, such as Luxembourg, will seek to speed up recognition initiatives on Palestinian independence. What countries have Belgium possibly contacted about this? Will Belgium place this item on the UN Security Council's agenda? What initiatives are possible in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions, which give me the opportunity to continue our discussions on 25 April. First of all, I will speak about the risks of Israel annexing Palestinian territories. I will then return to the situation of Palestinian children in Israeli prisons. The risk of annexation is an increasingly plausible prospect, as evidenced by Prime Minister Netanyahu's speech to the Knesset when his new government took office on 17 May. Given this very worrying development, the Member States of the European Union have increased trade in recent weeks at all levels. The informal meeting of Foreign Ministers on 15 May is an important date in this intra-European process, but certainly does not mark the final point. On 18 May, High Representative Josep Borrell recalled the central and fundamental character of international law in the international order that we are defending. Therefore, the European Union and its Member States will not recognise any changes to the 1967 lines unless these changes are approved by both parties. The Council conclusions of July 2014 remain in force. It states that the EU will recognise changes at the borders, including those prior to 1967 and also with regard to Jerusalem, only if the parties have agreed to them. This EU position remains in place and the Member States are therefore bound by it. The debate on the definition of preventive measures to prevent annexation and on possible reactions to annexation is still ongoing. Meanwhile, on the basis of the Council conclusions, High Representative Borrell makes the necessary contacts to avoid annexation. His statement of 18 May, which I fully support, is part of a preventive approach. I would like to emphasise that Belgium has taken various initiatives to recall these fundamental principles and to give them a broad echo, both in the European Union and at the level of the Security Council in New York. At European Union level, Belgium invited a number of Member States to share the same priorities and to consider ways of preventing the new Israeli government from moving on the path of annexation. Several options were discussed at that meeting and then introduced to the Council, including at the Ministerial Video Conference on 15 May. The options need to be thoroughly analysed and we hope, with our like-minded European partners, that they will continue to be discussed in the European Union so that they can be supported as widely as possible. At the level of the Security Council, Belgium took the initiative of a European public statement on the sidelines of the briefing of 20 May on the Middle East peace process. This statement has received the support of the other members of the European Union who are members of the Security Council and demonstrates our willingness to bring the issue to the multilateral level. If the Israeli government were to implement all or part of its plans for annexation, the relations between the European Union and Israel could only be affected. As a violation of international law, annexation must be seen as a horizontal issue that goes beyond the context of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. International law is not of variable geometry. The steps towards annexation, if implemented, cannot therefore remain without consequence. It is in this spirit that Belgium, together with a large number of European partners, calls for an in-depth analysis of the political and legal implications of the annexation of territories beyond the line of June 1967. It is not a question of sanctions in the strict sense of the term, but of the consequences this annexation would have on the various aspects of relations between the European Union and Israel, in a cross-cutting way. In this context, Luxembourg is alone in advocating, at this stage, for recognition of the State of Palestine. Let us recall that this is a sovereign competence of the States and not a European competence. At this stage, we are focusing on diplomatic efforts, both towards Israel and the United States and regional actors, both bilaterally and at European level. It must be clear to all our partners that the resumption of a negotiating process is the best way to resolve this conflict. A unilateral annexation would compromise any negotiated process, any prospect of peace based on the two-State solution paradigm. We are also paying attention to the regional implications and the risks that such a development would pose on the ground, in terms of security and stability, not only for Palestinians and Israelis, but also for the countries of the region. I am thinking in particular of Lebanon and Jordan. The European Union intends to play a constructive role in this matter and to support the diplomatic initiatives that could emerge, notably through the Quartet which the envoys met on Friday, 22 May. It is also as a member of the United Nations Security Council that Belgium will support these efforts. With regard to Palestinian children detained in Israeli prisons, Belgium shares the concerns expressed by several United Nations bodies that called for the immediate release of Palestinian children detained in Israel. Belgium had already called for the release of Palestinian children detained during its intervention in the Security Council on 23 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. Following the hearing of the ambassadors of Israel and Palestine, it was understood that they shared the responsibility for the absence of dialogue. For Israel, the Trump plan is, I quote, "a reference platform". I am pleased to hear that the European Union will not recognise any change in the borders drawn in 1967. International law is not a right with variable geometry, as you said. Mr Minister, I urge you, together with your European colleagues, to increase contacts at the highest level in order to avoid a coup de force, a pure annexation which would be harmful to peace in the region and which could not remain without consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. In recent years, there has been – and this has been confirmed following the hearing of the Israeli ambassador – an undeniable radicalisation of Israeli positions. That's pretty disturbing. The terms used not to use the word "annexation" are quite indicative of the state of mind of the Israeli government: it speaks of the implementation of sovereignty rather than annexation. It is not a question of Belgium and Europeans taking sides, it is a question of defending international law, which, as you said, is not of varying geometry. On the other hand, you have distinguished between the consequences of annexation and sanctions. You said you were studying the consequences of annexation, but you also said that it did not mean sanctions. I find it difficult to grasp the nuance that you make between the use of these two terms. In any case, if the European Union wants to be more than a large market and wants to have a political impact on the evolution of this conflict, it will be necessary to move on and consider a paradigm shift. Since the paradigms of the conflict are changing, the European Union will have to change its reading of the file and its positioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u10	Minister, thank you for your full answer. What can be added if only one makes peace with one's enemies? You never make peace unilaterally, on your own. This possible annexation would of course be a contempt for the Palestinians, the other side, but also for the principles of international law in general, as has been said. It is also a considerable risk to the stability of the entire region. I thank you in advance for continuing your efforts to try to weigh diplomatically on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u11	Minister, I agree with my colleague that diplomatic activities should continue in the same way, both within the UN, the EU and within the quartet you mentioned, which has also played a role in the past. It is not a question of choosing a camp, as Mr Ben Accour says, but of defending international law. We can't let that go. It is clear that the rights established in 1967 will be violated by an annexation. However, we must not be blind to Israel's sense of insecurity in the Middle East either. I think the two camps should be reconciled. You spoke of creating a broad consensus. If there is no strong support within the EU, then you can indeed take action with those EU Member States that do want to move forward. So I wouldn't let it depend on the EU, but take further action with the 11 Member States you mentioned who do have a support base.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u12	Minister, thank you for your full answer. We are talking about "possible annexation", but there is already one in Palestine since East Jerusalem has been annexed by Israel for years – just like a part of the Golan. A further step in this process has been taken since then. When I hear that you are talking about "camps that reject each other's fault", I would still like to point out that the reading of the conflict that international law offers us is very clear: we are witnessing an occupation, with an occupant and an occupied one. You come back with Israel's security argument. Of course, like every State, it is entitled to its security, but successive Israeli governments have been creating their own insecurity for too many years by implementing a violent, aggressive and completely illegal colonial policy. In short, international law must remain the basis of our analysis of the conflict. I would also like to join my colleague, Ben Achour. I have a sense of sanctity and willingness on your part to move the matter forward and to participate in a transparent development of measures to be taken. However, you refuse to vote in favour of sanctions. If we do not want to pursue a policy of variable geometry, we must remember the decisions taken by the European Union, in particular with regard to Crimea, as well as the sanctions taken against Chechnya and Russia. I think it's possible to go further. That is why I encourage you to do so. Finally, thank you for responding to the question of Palestinian children. We know that more than a hundred of them are locked up in Israeli prisons. As such, I would like to recall that a six-year-old Cisjordanian child can take 24 years in prison if he throws a stone on an Israeli tank. In other words, injustice lies not only in the occupation itself, but also in its consequences for the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u13	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I think we should not lose sight of caution in this difficult situation. We have just received an example of this, with a particularly revisionist interpretation of the situation in the Middle East, as if Israel were the cause of the difficult situation and the security risks. That simplism must not be made our own. We must work on the dialogue, and we must also recognise that, unfortunately, the weakness of the Palestinian institutions is a cause of the problems. The contradictions within the Palestinian camp play an important role that Israel can use or abuse. That is why we must certainly work on Israel's own communication that it will take action in conjunction with the international community. What that means, I don't know. We must certainly place Israel under the responsibility of ensuring that the country itself supports any action that would be taken. However, I would like to point out that we believe that the European Union itself is not entirely united in this matter and thus illustrates the complexity of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u14	Minister, following last week's hearings, I was particularly concerned about something. Indeed, on several occasions the ambassador of Israel has questioned Europe's capacity and credibility in a debate like this. Several times, he considered that as Mr. Borrell did not have the unanimity and that he could only count on 25 or 26 countries out of 27, his postions were only personal positions. I believe that if a solution is to be found, we must actually broaden the quartet, but above all, broaden the panel of countries that really want a solution and no doubt fully support Mr Borrell. If I am not mistaken, the two countries that did not agree are Hungary and Austria. I believe that we cannot build a European policy on the basis of the policies which are defended in particular by Hungary, which is itself on the bench of the accused at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I have a question about a possible agreement on import tariffs for medical products, including in the context of the fight against corona. In April 2020, there was a unilateral decision by the European Union not to charge import tariffs on medical products, if it were in line with the fight against COOVID-19. Phil Hogan, the European Commissioner for Trade, now also calls for a Plurilateral Convention to be drawn up within the framework of the WTO. It is important that the German Chambers of Commerce urged that the WTO arms agreement on tariff-free treatment be extended to all medical products, technologies and protective equipment. They called for it. Minister, I have a single question, but it is important for future relations in the market for these products. Will Belgium, as a member of the WTO, join the call of the German Chambers of Commerce to extend the tariff-free treatment to all medical products, technologies and protective equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u16	Madam President, Mr Crombez, the current COOVID-19 crisis underlines the importance of open, fair and reliable trade in pharmaceutical and medical products. The so-called WTO Pharmaceutical Agreement has been in existence for 25 years. At the time of the Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations in 1994, several countries, including the European Union, Japan, Switzerland and the United States, agreed on a reciprocal tariff declaration, the zero-for-zero initiative for a range of pharmaceutical and chemical products for the pharmaceutical industry. Since 1994, the list has been extended several times. The list now contains more than 10,000 products, including all active ingredients without ownership by the World Health Organisation. Over the years, more countries have joined the agreement. The signatories to the agreement now represent about 90% of the world production of the product concerned, namely the European Union, the United States, Canada, Japan, Norway, Switzerland and Macao. However, there are still tariffs. It is an agreement limited in sectoral and geographical scope. Countries that have meanwhile become an important player, such as China, India, Mexico or Brazil, are not involved. The current pandemic has underlined the importance of easy and secure access to medicines and medical equipment. Several projects and initiatives were launched, including within the EU by Sweden and the Netherlands, by the European Commission itself, by New Zealand and Singapore and by private groups, such as federations. Belgium is in favour of ensuring the supply chain as well as reliable and inexpensive access to pharmaceutical products and medical equipment for all. The concrete proposals will be carefully examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u17	Minister, the advantage of asking just one question is that it is clear what the question is. What the German Chamber of Commerce proposes is very concrete and has an impact on the market. It wants to intervene in such a way as to ensure that the costs and rates of medical equipment for patients and the medical world remain workable and makes a very concrete proposal on this. Since I am only asking one question, I understand that the Belgian Government is not yet ready to commit itself to supporting that proposal. This may have to do with the fact that it has an impact on the functioning of the market, but a good impact on the functioning of the market. In crisis situations, it is important that there is public regulation to ensure equal access to and distribution of quality material. I very much support the initiative of the German Chamber of Commerce. I understand that you are not yet in a position to engage, but I will keep coming back to it, because I think it is really necessary internationally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u18	Madam President, Minister, on 9 March the European Commission jointly published its overall strategy with Africa. Will Belgium argue that the future comprehensive strategy between the Union and Africa should include concrete measures to combat tax evasion and evasion, in large part by certain European companies on the African continent? Secondly, the Union affirmed its willingness to "create in the long term a full free trade area between the two continents". Does Belgium support this ambition of full trade liberalization? What place does our country intend to place on reducing the remaining social inequalities among the African population? Why does the European strategy not include any measures to alleviate the debt of African countries, when several international financial institutions are advocating such initiatives? Finally, what place do you intend to place for civil society in the development of this strategy with Africa?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u19	Madam President, my speech will be very brief, since Mr Cogolati has just raised several questions which I will not repeat. I simply note that the European Union likes to close its borders and does not show greater solidarity within it than it does with Africa. However, a will is contained in the Commission document. Since we were talking about Mr Borrell at the moment, it seems to me that at some point we should be able to talk to representatives of the European Union – in particular the latter or his assistants. Thus, in cooperation with you, Minister, they could explain how to complete this core document. Indeed, one may wonder whether, behind the Borrell-von der Leyen project, the European Union stands ready to act or whether the North-South, East-West, "Ancienne" and "New Europe", Northern Europe and Southern Europe divides persist. We must remain very attentive to this issue. Otherwise, we will have missed once again the renewal of the Europe-Africa partnership, which forms a fundamental axis of our solidarity. That seems essential to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u20	Madam President, gentlemen, as stated in my reply to Mr Flahaut's question on this subject on 28 April 2020, the Member States of the European Union have not yet been forced to respond formally to the joint communication "Towards a comprehensive strategy with Africa" published on 9 March by the European Commission and the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. I would like to stress that the document in question is not yet a European strategy per se. VOCID-19 and its effects have greatly disrupted the process of defining a European position and led to the postponement of the ministerial meeting between the European Union and the African Union scheduled for the beginning of May and the preparations for it. The timetable has not yet been clarified. It is in particular in the context of the post-Cotonou negotiations that the Commission advocates the adoption of legislation and initiatives promoting the fight against all forms of corruption, the introduction of greater transparency and accountability with regard to public funds, the provision of public services, the improvement of revenue collection, the fight against fraud, tax evasion, money laundering and illicit financial flows and the observance of global tax governance standards. In this regard, particular attention will be paid to the proper use of external financial assistance. These issues can be addressed in political dialogues with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries. The continent-to-continent free trade agreement is a long-term ambition. Belgium supports this initiative, which the European Union and the African Union call for. In the short and medium term, the priorities will be to go further, on the one hand, with regard to the continued support of the African continental free trade area at the request of our African partners and, on the other hand, with regard to the implementation and deepening of the economic partnership agreements. The promotion of decent and sustainable work is one of Belgium's priorities. In the discussions leading up to the publication of the joint communication, our country has proactively highlighted several additional areas of practical cooperation to expand cooperation between the European Union and the African Union in the field of human rights. These can be summarized as follows: gender, health, sexual and reproductive rights, rights-based approach (business and human rights, social rights, etc.).). The promotion of human rights and the improvement of social rights were among the priorities set out in the joint communication. Nor will you have escaped the fact that, in that communication, the Commission and the High Representative establish an explicit link with the Green Pact for Europe. The issue of debt relief for African countries is under discussion in the European fora. The European Union and Belgium support the decision taken on 15 April by the Paris Club and the G20 to see IDA countries and the least developed countries benefit from a moratorium on the payment of debt servicing due to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. This moratorium allows time to explore different avenues. The question of the involvement of civil society prior to the publication of the Joint Communication should probably be asked both the Commission and the High Representative. But according to the reaction of the CONCORD NGO platform, it seems that these contacts are already planned. As stated at the meeting on 28 April, I would like to conclude by recalling that we are only at the beginning of a long-term joint process which could lead to a European Union declaration. African Union in the fall of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u21	Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive answer. I would also like to thank you for putting on the table the question of respect for human rights and a rights-based approach to development, in particular the right to decent work. Belgium's priorities are important. In any case, know that we will encourage you to continue in this direction. Indeed, talking about the accountability of African governments and good governance on their part is one thing, but it is also important that we assume some responsibility in the fight against tax evasion and fraud that some of our companies continue to commit in many African countries. As far as the future is concerned, I understand that the process will be long-term. I therefore hope that the NGOs in Europe, but also in Africa, can be involved in this process, which I hope will be as participatory as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. We are indeed at the beginning of a process. If we have asked you questions, it is also in order to draw your attention to the need not to drag on and to ensure that Belgium will be able, as it has always done, to play a role in re-establishing this partnership of solidarity involving all aspects, but also, and above all, respect for the partners in this relationship between the African Union, Belgium and Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u23	Mr Minister, we still have a little surprise from the European Union, as European Trade Commissioner Phil Hogan announced at the end of April that he has finalized negotiations to modernise a free trade agreement with Mexico, which has been in force since 2000. So now, 99% of trade would be free of any customs duty between the European Union and Mexico. This implies facilities for certain exports of European chocolate or cheese, but above all, imports of 20 000 tonnes of meat quotas from Mexico, which are denounced by many farmers, and in particular cattle farmers at home in Belgium, already heavily affected by these free trade treaties. This new European strategy and trade agreement are coming in the middle of VOCID-19. It is also a strategy in contradiction with the long-term vision advocated by the Green Deal and the CAP. The European Commission says that the economy needs to be relocated, in the midst of the crisis of the VOCID-19, and at the same time there is the impression that everything is being done here to facilitate Mexico's imports. Moreover, the opacity of the decision raises questions. Even the negotiating mandate was not public. The Walloon government has learned of the conclusion of the agreement by the press. I was wondering if for you, too, the conclusion of this agreement was a surprise. Does Belgium support the finalization of this agreement in the midst of a pandemic or does it condemn the lack of transparency that led to these negotiations? Finally, does Belgium intend to advocate a revision of the EU's agricultural and trade policy agenda? Will it defend the establishment of genuine European food sovereignty? Walloon Minister of Agriculture Willy Borsus has repeatedly called for a study to measure the cumulative effects of imports, whether from other agricultural products or meat. Will you also require a study of the effects of Mexican imports resulting from this new free trade agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u24	Mr Minister, I too am going back to this trade agreement between Mexico and the European Union, which was supposed to have been concluded on 28 April. The final details of this agreement have in any case been settled. From now on, almost all trade in goods between Europeans and Mexicans could be exempt from customs duties. EU Trade Commissioner Phil Hogan welcomed this outcome. Under the terms of the press release, the text would lay down innovative rules for sustainable development. It would also include clauses on investment protection, provisions to combat corruption and chapters on political cooperation and development cooperation. Started in 2016, these negotiations on the modernization of the first comprehensive agreement, signed in 1997 and entered into force in 2000, had already led to a compromise in April 2018, which, however, left some outstanding issues, not least. Indeed, several arbitrations were to take place on the question of the reciprocal opening of public contracts and the transparency of tendering procedures. It therefore appears that the latter issues have been resolved. The agricultural sector is once again concerned about the unfair competition that this new free trade treaty would impose because of the annual import quotas for beef and veal at reduced customs duties, estimated at 20,000 tonnes, as my colleague Mr Cogolati has already said. The Commission would have accepted. This would therefore be in addition to the quantities provided for in CETA and Mercosur. So my questions are as follows. Have you been aware of the text of the agreement and what analysis do you make of it, particularly in the areas of sustainable development, investment protection, anti-corruption and development cooperation? Are there social and environmental standards of respect for human rights that are binding and verifiable in this agreement? Do you have a clearer view of the timing of this agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u25	Minister, Belgium is an open economy and therefore highly dependent on exports. Flanders in particular has a strong export reputation. International trade offers enormous economic added value for our country. However, due to the corona crisis, these exports are under severe pressure. A quarter of the exporting companies have seen their export activities fall by 75% or more. We are particularly affected by the fall-back in international demand, with 80% of exporting companies suffering from this. That's huge. Voka recently rightly called for extra support for our exports: "Our politicians urgently need to work on a relay strategy for our exports, as many of our prosperity and jobs depend on this." That is a concern which, I believe, you can only endorse. Free trade will be needed effectively after this crisis. Openness, partnerships and cooperation will become even more essential if we want to rebuild our economy after the pandemic. Unlike previous speakers, we think it is good news that two weeks ago the EU reached a basic agreement on free trade with Mexico. Just when we are in great need of exports and free trade, the Walloon Government, through Walloon Minister of Economy Willy Borsus, is expressing its desire to oppose the European Union's trade agreement with Mexico. Has the opposition of the Walloon Government against this free trade agreement already been officially raised in the Consultative Committee? What was the conclusion? What position will the federal government take on the EU-Mexico trade agreement? How is the intra-Belgian consultation on the adoption of the trade agreement going? Do you know whether other European Member States may oppose the agreement? How do you estimate the consequences of the possible failure to sign the agreement, both for our country and for the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u26	Minister, the negotiations between the European Union and Mexico were finalised on 28 April 2020, in the midst of the VOCID-19 crisis, by Commissioner Phil Hogan. This new treaty will eliminate many residual tariffs, including in agri-food products such as chocolate, poultry and pork products, and pasta. In addition, the agreement is a new generation, containing provisions on sustainable development and regulatory cooperation. For the first time, a trade agreement also includes provisions to combat corruption. However, there are questions about this agreement negotiated in the midst of a health crisis, at a time when, no doubt more than before, the will to consume more local and sustainable. It should be a joint agreement, which should therefore be approved by the European Council, the European Parliament and the national parliaments of the Member States. For Belgium, it is the regional parliaments that will be responsible. We do not have an official timetable for this procedure to date. Minister, have you had an opportunity to read about this agreement? If so, what policy analysis can you make? As I said, new elements in terms of corruption and sustainability are included in the text. Can you tell us more about this? Since no calendar is officially set, do you have a better view of it? It is our responsibility that no vote should take place in the European Parliament until next year. [[Can you confirm this information?]] Are you at this stage able to give Belgium a position on this agreement? Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my answer will be a little longer than usual because I have not yet had the opportunity to speak on this subject and your questions have many sub-questions. Negotiations for the modernization of the comprehensive agreement with Mexico in 1997 were launched in spring 2016. Allow me, Mr Cogolati, first of all to address the issue of transparency in trade negotiations. The European Commission which conducted the negotiations not only published the minutes of each round of negotiations online, but also published the full texts in their final version before legal clearance, including the part on agricultural quotas after the conclusion of the agreement reached in April 2018. The texts on access to public procurement at sub-central level were negotiated until the end of April 2020 and were published earlier this month. It was true that the negotiating mandate had not been published, which was consistent with the practice in force at the time. Under pressure from several Member States, including Belgium, the European Commission began publishing the texts of the directives and the new trade negotiations initiated at the end of 2017. Mrs Van Bossuyt, at Belgian level, the Regions were, as always, informed at regular intervals about the negotiations at the coordination meetings for European policy. Mr Ben Achour, the modernisation of the current Economic Partnership Agreement for Political Coordination and Cooperation improves the institutional framework and strengthens the platform for dialogue and cooperation in a wide range of areas, including human rights, justice, climate action and migration issues. Civil society will be closely involved in these exchanges. Mr De Maegd, the trade side of the agreement also contains an ambitious chapter on sustainable development. The European Union and Mexico are committed to implementing the Paris Climate Agreement. Under the Agreement, the Parties also undertake to promote sustainable economic transition, green economic growth and sustainable management of biodiversity and forests. The prospect of the early entry into force of the agreement prompted Mexico to sign the last ILO Basic Convention that it had yet to ratify and which the parties undertook to effectively implement under the agreement. Both parties undertake not to weaken their legislation on workers' rights and the environment, with the aim of encouraging trade or investment. The agreement also contains provisions on corporate social responsibility, the fight against corruption and gender issues. The parties undertake to respect the conventions to which they are parties and to cooperate in this regard in multilateral forums. The commitments contained in this chapter will be monitored through a dispute resolution mechanism in which civil society will also be involved. Mr Cogolati, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the conclusion of an agreement on the entry into force of the trade agreement at these times of COVID-19 seems to me to be an opportunity rather than a threat. The modernisation of the agreement in question, which came into force 20 years ago, is an opportunity to support our exports by improving access to the fourth export market on the American continent and diversifying our exports. The deepening process will completely eliminate customs tariffs and significantly facilitate trade flows through simplified, faster and more transparent procedures. The interest of our companies in the Mexican market was already evident during the princely mission of 2019, which was a great success. The agreement allows European agricultural products to enjoy a considerable advantage in the Mexican market. This opens up new opportunities for Belgian companies, as more than 125 million Mexican consumers will be able to have easy access to quality products, such as our meat, dairy and cheese products, our chocolate and our cereal-based foods. This privileged access will also be complemented by protection against counterfeiting, which will benefit 13 Belgian geographical indications, including 10 products from Wallonia, including Ardenne ham, Herve cheese and Gaumani pâté. On the side of our imports, European standards for sanitary and phytosanitary standards will of course be preserved. All imports from Mexico will therefore have to comply with EU legislation on residues, compliance and consumer safety. More specifically, with regard to beef and veal, Mexico will benefit from a quota of 10 000 tonnes of fresh meat and 10 000 tonnes of meat offal, equivalent to carcasses, at 7.5% of the customs duty. For the moment, Mexican beef does not have access to the European market for health reasons. Therefore, this quota, which accounts for about 0.2% of EU beef production, could encourage Mexican producers to develop production methods that meet EU standards and nomes. I also note that Europe, for its part, has obtained favourable access to the Mexican market, since it will benefit from a quota of 40 000 tonnes of beef, in the long run, without a customs duty. This will strengthen the competitiveness of European meat and is likely to create opportunities, directly or indirectly, for Belgian exports essential to this sector. I note that we have a trade surplus with Mexico in the agri-food sector. The agreement also allows European companies to be the only non-Mexican companies to be able to participate in certain public procurement in Mexico. Access to the services market is also largely liberalised for the first time. European investors will enjoy a clear legislative framework and legal protection similar to that enjoyed in Canada. Mr Ben Achour, through this agreement, the Mexican authorities are committed above all to improving transparency in procedures and non-discrimination, thereby limiting the burden of corruption and arbitrariness. Mr De Maegd and Mr Ben Achour, you are also asking me about the timetable. Legal grooming is under way; will follow the translation. The agreement will then be submitted to the Member States for adoption, probably towards the end of this year. Mrs Van Bossuyt, we do not have the information today that a Member State would oppose the adoption of the agreement. Belgium's final position has not yet been established. Since it is a mixed agreement, the position will be determined in consultation with the Regions and the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u28	Minister, thank you for this long answer. But your optimism surprises me. Indeed, the Walloon Minister of Agriculture is very strongly opposed to this agreement, especially as regards its agricultural aspect. Mr Borsus said that both the meat and milk sectors were in crisis. Today, we really need to move towards a common, coherent and unique position in Belgium vis-à-vis the other Member States and the European Union. There is also a need, as the Walloon Government has done, to include in the Treaty much more ambitious environmental clauses than those currently contained in the Treaty. Indeed, the Treaty as presented today is totally incompatible with the Green Deal. In this regard, I believe that we should take the same direction as that taken by France or the Netherlands, which, in particular, call for the chapters on sustainable development in free trade agreements to be made much more binding by means of tariff modulation, in line with the efforts and progress actually made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u29	Minister, I, too, am surprised to hear your positive considerations in connection with this agreement. I see this as a form of contradiction with the Walloon government's analysis of it, particularly Minister Borsus. I also see contradictions specific to the European Commission, which states that a paradigm or model must be changed as it continues to sign free trade agreements without changing the way it is done. In any event, such an agreement will run counter to the fundamental principles of the Green Deal, such as carbon adjustment at the borders, which I believe should be the lever of any future trade policy. We must be able, through the customs duty instrument, to adjust the competitive differences that exist as a result of different social, environmental or fiscal standards between one trading area and another. I think we need to be very vigilant, attentive and careful with this kind of text. Wallonia has already taken very clear positions. A Walloon MP, Maxime Hardy, has also tabled a text asking Wallonia not to grant its delegation of powers to the federal government as it stands for the signing of an agreement between the European Union and Mexico. It can therefore be seen that Belgium and the various entities of the "Belgium house" will not necessarily be aligned. It will therefore take a lot of dialogue, but above all an infinite caution. Again, this type of agreement belongs to the old world. Today the population is expecting something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u30	Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. I can reassure colleagues because we have held hearings in this committee on the free trade agreements and the clauses they contain on, among other things, sustainability. The European Commission itself was present and confirmed that there was a better follow-up to the new generation of trade agreements. For these agreements, European law can absolutely never be changed. This means that all our standards on food safety, for example, will continue to apply. So you certainly don't have to worry about that. Minister, you say that this agreement is an opportunity and I hope that you will be able to convince your Walloon colleague and fellow party member. You will certainly find support in Flanders to ratify this agreement. After all, this is a mixed agreement. I hope we can go for it together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u31	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. As you pointed out, the agreement that implements the Paris climate agreement has real strengths in terms of sustainable development and biodiversity protection. However, it will be necessary to see in the coming months how its implementation can still evolve in order to be in line with this Green Deal, which remains one of the main lines of European policy for the next few years. Anyway, this deal has great virtues. You talked about exporting for our meat producers, for our dairy producers, for cereal producers, for chocolate producers. It should be stressed, however, that the European Union is Mexico's third largest trading partner and that Mexico is the European Union's thirteenth trading partner in goods. Mexico is also the European Union's largest partner in Latin America with bilateral trade of 66 billion for goods in 2019, and 19 billion for services in 2018. European exports of goods to Mexico exceed EUR 39 billion each year. That is to say, these figures show the intensity of our reports! To quote another figure, in the European Union, 400 0000 jobs are linked in one way or another to exports to Mexico. This agreement should not therefore be taken lightly. But we will be discussing this issue again in the coming months, since, as you have pointed out, this agreement should be submitted to the Member States at the end of this year, which I welcome. I imagine that many discussions will be held between now and then within the various levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u32	Minister, while China has a rather aggressive communication about its so-called good management and solidarity in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic – of which it is the source – it does not hesitate to pursue its expansionist strategy in the South China Sea. Considering that almost all of this part of the world belongs to China, which is contested by the Permanent Court of Arbitration (CPA), China continues its policy of fait accompli. At the end of March 2020, China announced the establishment of two new research stations on Fiery Cross and Subi Rock, an internationally contested occupation. In early April, Chinese maritime police vessels assaulted Vietnamese fishermen operating in their exclusive economic zone. They sank a fishing boat and imprisoned eight Vietnamese fishermen. On 18 April 2020, the Chinese government approved the creation of the two districts of Xisha and Nansha under the city of Sansha, previously established on the island of Wioody, and thus administratively encompassing the Paracels and Spratleys islands whose sovereignty Vietnam largely claims. China wants, through this new administrative act, to legalize its occupation of some 80 rocky islands and coral reefs. These incidents are in addition to other precedents that also violate the rules of the law of the sea as well as the declaration on the conduct of the parties in the East Sea signed in 2002 between ASEAN and China. In this context, the United States called on China to put an end to its "bullying" in disputed waters. They have sent warships to the Eastern Sea in order, they say, to promote freedom of navigation. In addition, China deploys missiles on the artificial islands of these disputed archipelagos. Minister, today I wish to alert you to the seriousness of the situation, the risk of escalation and the urgency of reacting to it. It is imperative to ensure that this maritime area remains free and that challenges are resolved in a peaceful and legal manner. Let us not be mistaken, our own security is at stake in this part of the world. Minister, what pressure do you intend to put on China to stop flouting the international order in the China Sea? Is this on the agenda of the Security Council? Do you intend to deal with it? What is your analysis of the risk of military escalation in the China Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u33	Minister, the geopolitical importance of the South China Sea is very great. It is one of the busiest sea routes in the world. There is a massive presence of natural gas and oil. Ten percent of global fishing is taking place. China has taken a number of actions to intervene in Vietnam's sovereignty. According to international maritime law, a country is entitled to a zone up to 200 nautical miles off the coast. This right is permanently violated by the Chinese. Colleagues have already listed the incidents. On top of that, another economic-diplomatic power game is played between China and the United States. The latter confirm sending an attack ship to the Baltic Sea. They want to maintain free international transit, while China is pursuing its maritime control of the region. There is an urgent need for a de-escalation of a potentially armed conflict. That's why I have the same questions. How do you stand with regard to this conflict? Will our country take the initiative within the framework of the United Nations to seek a solution to the conflict within the framework of the Convention on the Law of the Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u34	Madam President, Belgium is following with obvious concern the recent developments in the South China Sea, due to territorial conflicts and geopolitical tensions in the region. The South China Sea is an important route for maritime transport and as such must be preserved. In addition to economic interests, respect for freedom of navigation and overflight is very important in terms of principles, both for Belgium and for the European Union as a whole. Negotiations between China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) for the conclusion of a code of conduct for the South China Sea began in March 2018. Negotiations are expected to continue this year. These negotiations and the possible conclusion of a code will not immediately eliminate the causes of tensions in the region, including claims to territorial sovereignty. Nevertheless, the value of this process lies in the dialogue and confidence-building measures that the parties concerned can adopt in this context. The United States regularly conducts so-called freedom of navigation operations in the South China Sea. These operations have been held for a long time and are part of the safeguarding of freedom of transit and overflights. Moreover, European partners, such as France and the United Kingdom, are also carrying out such operations. Although these operations do not take place within a European framework, they are in line with the European and Belgian vision. This vision includes respect for the regulated international space and the principle of free passage and overflight. The Belgian position on this issue is in line with that of the European Union, with emphasis on the importance of dialogue and a multilateral approach. It is therefore logical and consistent that the European Union and Belgium call for compliance with existing international rules and treaties, in particular the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. On the other hand, both support the negotiations between China and ASEAN on a code of conduct, provided that these discussions ensure respect for international rules and the principle of freedom of navigation and overflight for each country. The South China Sea is not currently on the UN Security Council's agenda. Some initiatives to address this should, in principle, come from the parties concerned if they consider this to be appropriate diplomatic action. Two Asian States are currently represented with Vietnam and Indonesia as non-permanent members of the Security Council. Moreover, given China's permanent membership of the Security Council, it is not realistic that this issue should be taken up. If, however, the opportunity were to arise, Belgium would take a position in accordance with the principles I have stated earlier, in particular respect for international law, freedom of transit and overflight and a call for multilateral dialogue and de-escalation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u35	Minister, thank you for your response and for your response to the risk of military escalation in the South China Sea, stressing the need to uphold international law and, as you have said, in particular the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. It's really important. I also hope that the United States will be able to share with its allies, including Belgium, these more precise plans in the South China Sea before the escalation gets worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note with satisfaction your deep concern and wish that the law of the sea and freedom of movement can be protected there as everywhere. I still wish you'd gone a little further. Indeed, you tell us that the solution is in dialogue and that negotiations are taking place between China and ASEAN for the conclusion of a code of conduct, but that code is flouted and trampled on by China. Furthermore, I do not hear any clear and formal condemnation of China's illegal occupation of a whole series of islands. It is known that these occupations serve as naval bases and are militarized. They are illegal and pose a threat to regional security. I would like to see clear language on this and other fronts, so that the parties concerned can see that our concern goes beyond statements of principles, that we are really trying to ensure that the law, our security and that of the neighbouring countries are actually respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u37	Minister, thank you for your concern and for the commitment to dialogue with ASEAN with a view to maintaining international transit law and international maritime law. I agree with Mr Dallemagne that a conviction is also appropriate. The Chinese also perform quite expansionist during this corona crisis. Look at what happens to the security laws in Hong Kong. These incidents also took place in April in the South China Sea. China is acting rather impertinently. I think we should be aware of this and be bolder. When it comes to international human rights and maritime rights, a conviction is appropriate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u38	Minister, the Burundian presidential elections took place on 20 May. The result was announced on 25 May. Not to my surprise was the candidate of the regime elected, with 68.72 % of the votes. That's Mr Ndayishimiye. CNL's counterpart, Mr Rwasa, reached 24.19 % of the votes. We knew in advance that we had to keep an eye on these elections. The intention was to get some more objective and transparent elections here, but now we are in the same boat as in 2015 or with the referendum in 2018. There are many indications of fraud, especially from partners of Belgian NGOs active on the ground. It is said that political opponents, journalists and activists were imprisoned during the campaign, including on election day. The National Election Commission CNI is closely associated with the CNDD regime party. No external election monitoring was organised. There were no observers. Moreover, since 2016, the EU has broken ties with the country on the basis of Article 96. Nor has the African Union been able to send observers. The question is whether the East African Community has been able to send her observation mission. So there has been little control over these elections, which is necessary in an international community. It was also very worrying that no national electoral lists were published, that deceased people voted, like minors or people who no longer live in Burundi. That's all very disturbing. Even villages of only 65,000 voters suddenly counted 100,000. On the basis of these initial testimonies on the ground, we can ask questions about the democratic nature of these elections. You have already replied to Mr de Laveleye that you and the Burundian authorities and the European Union would consider how these elections could be conducted in the most democratic way possible. What concrete steps has this taken, both with the European Union and with Burundi? How do you deal with the results of these elections, which, although to be finalized on 4 June?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u39	Mr Minister, of my two questions on the situation in Burundi, the first concerns the outcome of the elections, the second concerns our citizens who are still present there. Since Mrs Van Hoof has just summed up the situation perfectly, I will only allow myself to point out that the testimonies we receive from the ground and through the media denounce many irregularities. Thus, as mentioned earlier, the electoral register has not been made public; foreign observers have long been excluded; the electoral campaign has been conducted in a climate of violence and intimidation against the opposition. This phenomenon has been going on for several weeks and has worsened in recent days, as some opposition party candidates have been arbitrarily removed from the lists and arrested on polling day. We're even talking about an assassination the night before. There is also a question of ballot boxing and a participation rate exceeding 100% in some regions. In short, as Mrs Van Hoof has shown, this is indeed an electoral process that does not respect the basic democratic rules, leading to results that can be widely contested. Fortunately, it seems that, for the time being, the level of violence on the ground has not exploded. Mr Minister, what has been the outcome of your consultation with your European colleagues on this matter? What do the results inspire you? What diplomatic initiative will you take so that Belgium can position itself with regard to this problematic process? Madam President, my next question will be very brief. Mr Minister, despite their various attempts, many of our fellow citizens have not been able to be repatriated, particularly by air. Fearing for their safety, many of them were forced to hide because of the tense electoral environment. Minister, how many Belgians are still present in Burundi? What about their safety? Have you been able to establish a monitoring on this? What steps have you taken to repatriate them? Do you consider mobilizing Defence for this purpose, if no other solution is possible in the coming days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u40	Mrs Van Hoof, Madame de Laveleye, thank you for these questions about the situation in Burundi. Prior to the election, Europeans increased contacts with the CNDD and CNL, the two main players. We sent messages of moderation and calls for dialogue, because our main fear was the risk of violent slippage. The African Union and the United Nations issued a joint statement on the elections in Burundi on 17 May. The European Union also expressed itself in a communiqué on 19 May. At the United Nations level, a briefing was organized at the Security Council on 14 May, which allowed me to convey a few messages to partners, including the representative of Burundi to the United Nations. The United Nations is preparing a post-electoral engagement strategy. It is reassuring to see such involvement by the United Nations, despite the resignation of its special envoy a few months ago, and the closure of the United Nations human rights office in Burundi. The election on 20 May finally took place in a calm overall, with the exception of a few isolated incidents. The next day, I issued a communiqué welcoming the efforts of the people, who participated in 87%, and calling on all political actors to defuse any tension or action that could undermine the democratic end of the process. On the other hand, we have had reports of many irregularities. The provisional results announced by the CNIS on Monday, 25 May, are therefore highly contested by the opposition. It must be clear that the international community was excluded from the electoral process by the Burundian authorities. The Burundian Government has refused the help of both the UN and the EU. International observation was limited to some Russian, Chinese, Kenyan and Tanzanian diplomats based in Bujumbura. Now that the elections are over and the preliminary results have been announced, we will not yet express ourselves, in consultation with our European partners, the United States and the UN. After all, we will not have sufficient elements to assess the progress of the operations. Not only was international observation very limited, but the authorities have also created many legal and practical obstacles to making the work of local observers more difficult. It was very difficult for observers and also for journalists to gather and disseminate information. The social media were closed on election day. As far as our nationals are concerned, 409 Belgians are currently in Burundi, according to the Embassy's last count. We have already repatriated the Belgians by way of special flights. There are still 15 Belgo-Burundese who were unable to take our plane on 4 April following a decision by the Burundian authorities, and who were then unable to take available commercial flights. We are constantly working on a solution for them. Our 409 citizens living in Burundi are familiar with the country and some have, unfortunately, already faced difficult moments in Burundi's history. The Burundian population has not shown any hostility towards them, nor are they the targets of aggressive propaganda by the authorities. Our fear was above all that they would be the indirect victims of violent incidents in the elections, but that was not the case. Of course, we remain vigilant. Our embassy has regular contacts with our nationals on the spot and a contingency plan has already been prepared. We are not considering more measures at this stage, but if the situation were to degenerate, we would not hesitate to use all the means at our disposal to support our compatriots. On the subject of international pressure, it must be understood that the Burundian authorities are largely insensitive. You're referring to section 96. It was adopted in March 2016 but, despite our numerous attempts to make it a basis for dialogue, the Burundian government never wanted to sit around a table to discuss the implementation of the indicators and start an exit process. We have always said that a possible exit from Article 96 depends on the smooth running of the elections and the commitments made by the future administration. We obviously keep open the channels of communication with the Burundian authorities and with the CNDD-FDD of Évariste Ndayishimiye who, according to the provisional results of the electoral commission, won this presidential election with 68.73 per cent. The latter has already shown in the past a certain willingness to open up to the international community. It is imperative that Burundi emerge from its isolation. We hope that the CNDD/FDD and the CNL will find a way forward and that the winner of the elections will not try to crush the loser. We therefore also keep all communication channels open, both with the CNDD and the CNL.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u41	Minister, it is indeed the most important thing for the people that there has been no violence on the ground. I am pleased that the embassy confirms what we have heard from our Belgian partners in the field, namely that there are indeed irregularities. We must now wait for the final results of the elections on 4 June. I would suggest that we do not send congratulations as we cannot be sure that the result is correct in view of the irregularities found. As you said, it is important to keep the dialogue open so that the population does not suffer from undemocratic elections. Irregularities were also mentioned in neighbouring Congo during the elections, but in the end the current President has managed to create a basis for support which has made the well-being of the people more central. We hope that this will also be the case in Burundi, where the personality of the current President may lead to the population becoming more central.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. You have not yet spoken publicly because you are waiting for a consultation with the European partners and the United States in order to draw up a joint communication, which seems to me to be a very valid strategy. However, I did not hear how you expected to influence this common positioning. Although our first concern must be the security of the Burundian population, we must not turn too quickly the page on the irregularities and self-absorbing of Burundi in this electoral process. As far as Belgian nationals are concerned, I am pleased to hear that the Belgian community in Burundi is safe. On the other hand, I remain concerned about the fifteen Belgian-Burundese people you mentioned who, if they want to return to Belgium, must find the means to do so. I have not heard a very clear answer on what is or will be put in place to facilitate the return of these fifteen Belgian nationals to Belgium. I will follow this file carefully in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u43	Minister, we have often talked about repatriations, but now I would like to talk about repatriations from Spain. Apart from a flight with Belgians from the Canary Islands organized by Foreign Affairs, and a humanitarian repatriation from Alicante, an increasing number of our citizens are stuck on the Spanish mainland, without too many realistic return opportunities, because commercial options are still very limited and remain so in the near future. How many Belgian citizens are still living in Spain on a non-permanent basis? How many of them have requested support from the State Department for their return? Do our local diplomatic posts and the headquarters in Brussels see an increase in requests for repatriation from Spain? What options or suggestions does the Foreign Office give to those who still wish to return? Why, for example, not organise a repatriation flight if there is a high need for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u44	Madam President, Minister, I should like once again to address with you the question of Belgians who are still stranded abroad. This issue has been raised many times in recent weeks. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for all the work you have done. So far, 47 flights have been organized by our country to allow the return of just over 9,000 people, including 7,750 Belgians. Despite the many efforts made by the competent services, which should once again be welcomed, there are still problems, as you said, on 19 May. This is particularly the case in Spain. As I said last week, I myself was arrested by Belgians who are still on the islands of Gran Canaria and Tenerife and who seem to have great difficulty returning to Belgium. Furthermore, concerning Morocco, you have stated that contacts are continuing with the authorities with a view to organising further repatriations via the so-called "forced" commercial flight mechanism. Minister, do you have any new information about the situation of Belgians who are still stranded abroad? Can you tell us more about the prospects for so-called "forced" commercial flights? More specifically, are you aware of the situation of our compatriots blocked in Spain? What would be the possible solutions to enable them to return to the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mr Ben Achour, Travellers Online currently has 9 000 Belgians, which can be both tourists and residents abroad, as this distinction is not made on the platform. The five countries with most Belgians registered on Travellers Online are Spain, Morocco, Australia, the United States and New Zealand. The last flight to Morocco was scheduled on Friday 15 May. No other repatriation flights are planned at this time. As explained above, there is a set of criteria that are taken into account to decide which countries are to receive flights. It looks at available commercial options, the size and condition of the group of Belgians present, without using a minimum quota, and the situation on the ground in the country. At the same time, these are the reasons why, in certain cases, they should not be repatriated. More than 10,000 Belgians have already been returned home via both Belgian and EU flights. The list of countries is long. These are 47 Belgian flights from more than 20 different countries and European flights from almost 90 destinations. No country refuses to cooperate. The repatriation of foreign nationals is not an obligation for the Belgian State. The Belgians who were in the most precarious situations have already been repatriated. If Belgians find their own solution, we can only encourage it. For Spain Travellers Online still has 935 Belgians. It is impossible to determine whether these are tourists or residents. The Belgian consulate in Alicante has the data of some 200 stranded travellers in that region. This group requested a return from the State Department. There is no increase in the number of applications for repatriation, mainly because there were commercial options for a long time, with flights from Madrid and Barcelona, and buses from Belgium are still being put in. Belgians who still wish to return can still do so by car or by inlaid buses. All information is bundled on the website of the Belgian embassy in Spain. There are 1,908 people who have been repatriated from the Canary Islands and 171 people from Alicante. As I said, my department will no longer organise repatriation flights but will facilitate commercial flights, as it has already done with Tunisair from Tunis or Air Belgium from Buenos Aires. We will continue along this path with Morocco, on the understanding that the persons concerned will always have to meet the medical, family and socio-economic criteria set by the Moroccan authorities and have paid the amount of the ticket in advance to the airline chosen. I am confident that the first easy flights will be possible by early June from Casablanca and/or Marrakech, which are the only Moroccan airports operating to date. The communication about the upcoming flights will be done by telephone with the people we know and by mail and open communication with the other non-residence Belgians who are present in Morocco. The messages will be sent this week, once the logistical preparation is completed. Finally, with regard to Tunisia, this country follows a policy of compulsory quarantine in hotels requisitioned by the authorities for all persons entering the territory, including European citizens residing in Tunisia. The Tunisian authorities do not tolerate any exceptions to this rule, which is a central part of their policy to combat the spread of the virus. This poses some logistical problems. According to information gathered by our embassy in Tunis, the quality of reception varies but is generally acceptable. This situation of near confinement is not pleasant but most people accommodate it without too much harm. A serious complaint was registered by the embassy, which immediately came into direct contact with the Belgian citizens concerned, namely the quarantined person and the family in Tunisia. This has improved their situation. There have been no complaints from other countries to my knowledge. The quarantine measures in the fight against the spread of the COVID-19 virus fall within the national competence of each country. I therefore do not think it is appropriate to intervene with other countries on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u46	Thank you for your reply, Minister. For compatriots staying abroad, there is also a responsibility to be taken into account. Belgian expats and or their families in Tunisia, among other things, cannot be dumped by COVID-19 because of quarantine measures in a hotel where no safety standards, health measures, hygiene measures and social distancing rules are respected. As far as stranded travellers are concerned, we are now two months later and still trying to get home to countrymen worldwide. Our neighbouring countries are setting up repatriation flights for 80 people. In a specific case, half of the passengers from Belgians were repatriated in the Netherlands. What the Dutch can do, apparently the Belgian government cannot. Since the government does not assume its responsibilities, private initiatives are organised out of necessity. I refer to the private flights from Tenerife in May 2020. Not everyone can afford a ticket of almost 600 euros. Then what will happen to the remaining compatriots? These are often elderly people who urgently need medication or a hospital examination. By your services they are referred to alternative flights, for example via Frankfurt. For many of those elderly people, such a long journey is unexploited work. Take responsibility and take care of the stranded travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u47	I think it is particularly important for the many Belgians who are still stuck abroad, that they are kept as informed as possible about the possibilities of getting home, and that as much efforts are being made from Belgium to get our fellow countrymen home. You refer, among other things, to bus trips. In this respect, I would like to join the previous speaker. It is not obvious for everyone to sit on a bus from the south of Spain for hours to return home. The necessary care and precautions must be taken to ensure that our fellow countrymen are safe at home. Thank you very much for bringing some of them home. However, I understand from your answer that a total of nine thousand Belgians, of which 935 in Spain, would like to return home as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers, which I have taken note of.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u49	Madam President, Minister, at the committee on 28 April, you answered one of my questions about Belgium's participation in Frontex, explaining that Belgium offered material assistance via B-FAST. I was told that this was because Frontex, unlike the B-FAST structure, which was specifically set up to provide relief in the event of disaster or calamity, does not have emergency humanitarian aid as its mission. Minister, on what legal basis could the B-FAST structure be involved in a Frontex operation? Is this the first time that B-FAST has been used in Frontex's service? What type of equipment has been used by B-FAST for Frontex? For what budget? The Royal Decree establishing B-FAST provides for the establishment of an advisory committee to formulate opinions on the relief measures and the operation of B-FAST. Has this committee been convened to enable it to give an opinion on this operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u50	Mr Moutquin, at the committee on 28 April 2020, I mentioned the activation of B-FAST following a request for support from the Greek Government under the European Civil Protection Mechanism. Last February, B-FAST sent to Greece, as part of the fight against the migration crisis, 64 family tents with various coverings, 101 camp beds and 4,320 blankets. At the request of the Greek government, these goods were delivered to a military warehouse just outside Athens. The total value of these goods is EUR 56 130. I can inform you that B-FAST has not made material available to Frontex. This advisory board was planned by royal decree at the time of the birth of B-FAST, but was not activated in the past decade. Since 2003, there has been a significant change in emergency humanitarian assistance. In the vast majority of B-FAST missions, DG ECHO and the European Civil Protection Mechanism are responsible for the coordination of emergency aid. Therefore, the Member States' requests for support are very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u51	Minister, thank you. The answer was complete. Indeed, I just wanted you to clarify whether it was Frontex or material aid on the islands.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u52	Madam President, Mr Moutquin, the Emergency Trust Fund for Africa, commonly known as the EU Trust Fund, established at the end of 2015, was set up to respond to crises in the Sahel, Lake Chad, Horn of Africa and North Africa regions to contribute to better management of migration and to combat the root causes of destabilization, forced displacement and irregular migration. The Trust Fund is financed by various European instruments, such as the Development Cooperation Instrument, but also the European Neighbourhood Instrument – the instrument contributing to stability and peace – and by contributions from States including Belgium. The vast majority of funds must therefore effectively meet the OECD DAC criteria for official development assistance, which some States contributing to the Fund frequently reminded the European Union when approving projects with nexus-related security and development components. Belgium has already argued for a governance audit to be carried out by the European Court of Auditors. The audit concluded in 2019 and the Court made relevant recommendations which the European Union is implementing. The evaluation of EUTF programmes is also under way and will provide us with more information on the use of funds. Belgium will of course be attentive to the conclusions of this evaluation. If a complaint has been lodged with the Court of Auditors on the use of funds, let the Court of Auditors do its job. If the complaint is considered admissible, Belgium will obviously be attentive to the outcome of the Court's examination and we will draw any conclusions from it in due course. Belgium is a very active Member State in the Operational Committees approving programmes financed by the EUTF. It analyses the content of the action sheets, formulates opinions and addresses its questions to the European Commission. At these meetings, Belgium, supported by other Member States, has always called for special attention to be paid to the protection and respect of human rights, to the most vulnerable people and to the principle of do not harm. Belgium also regularly intervenes to recall the importance of integrating close monitoring measures into all programmes, including in Libya, in particular with regard to respect for human rights. In particular, following repeated requests from Belgium and other European Union States, the European Union finally contextualised and contracted a third party to follow the most sensitive programmes implemented in Libya, in order to assess their possible impact on human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am indeed reassured by the role Belgium takes in the duty of control. However, I am quite surprised. It should still be recalled that the accusations against the Libyan coastguards are grievous. We're talking about being involved in human trafficking, sexual violence and many other things. I am therefore surprised that the accusations that the NGOs have brought to the judicial level do not bring a momentary suspension, during the time of a verdict. However, I take note of your attention to this issue and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u54	Mr Minister, the world is constantly turning around and, unfortunately, it has not been moving in the right direction for many years in some areas. For the people who live there, it is an abominable tragedy that is taking place, with actors who are not only indecent but also ignoble in their way of conducting their strategic, military and political choices. In its latest report, Amnesty International accuses Russia and Syria of deliberately beating schools and hospitals on the UN list of protected sites in north-western Syria. Amnesty investigated 18 air and land attacks and claims to have collected solid evidence. This information, of course, is in addition to the information I have been asking you about recently in committee. In addition, in July 2014, the UN Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution authorizing the cross-border delivery of humanitarian aid to north-western Syria and other parts of the country that are in the hands of armed opposition groups, without seeking authorization from the Syrian government. This resolution is due to expire on 10 July. Minister, in addition to your replies in committee on 28 April, what follow-up is given by our diplomacy to this new information revealed by Amnesty International? With regard to the issue of the extension by the Security Council of the possibility of channelling cross-border humanitarian aid, does our country intend to take an initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u55	Minister, I agree with what has been said. I am shocked by what Amnesty International revealed in its report. It refers to a deliberate choice by the Syrian army and the Russian allied forces to bomb schools, hospitals and other civilian buildings 18 times between February and May of this year. It's awful. This contravenes many international conventions. It is therefore urgent that we take a position on this situation and weigh as much as we can to obtain clarification within the United Nations and the Security Council, where we still have a role to play. Some countries, including Germany, have already called for follow-up action in the face of what is commonly called a war crime. The same applies to me. Mr Minister, what position will Belgium take in the face of these facts, which, I repeat, are terrible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u56	Mr Minister, my esteemed colleagues have already said almost everything and I will therefore be brief. Indeed, this Amnesty report is absolutely overwhelming, because the civilian population is deliberately targeted in hospitals and schools. One million people are said to have fled, converging to camps that are already overcrowded or to public buildings transformed into temporary shelters. Amnesty's report also mentions that humanitarian aid is sometimes blocked and does not receive the necessary permits to transport convoys. Minister, do you confirm the facts mentioned in the Amnesty report, namely violations of international law by the Syrian government? If so, what is our country's position? Are we seeking an independent commission of inquiry? With regard to humanitarian assistance, Amnesty recommends that the necessary funds be allocated to a United Nations plan to combat the VOCID-19 epidemic. Is Belgium in line with this recommendation? Finally, the assistance mechanism provided for in Security Council resolution 2165 is increasingly difficult to enforce. This shows a politicization of humanitarian standards. This mechanism is expected to end in July 2020. What is our country's position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium condemns the incidents described in the Amnesty International report as it has done publicly in the Security Council for similar incidents in the past. The fight against impunity in Syria has remained a Belgian objective since the beginning of the war in 2011. We continue to advocate for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes in Syria to be brought to justice. In addition, Belgium supported each initiative aimed at assigning responsibility for serious crimes committed by the warring parties in Syria, such as the establishment of the International, Impartial and Independent Mechanism by the United Nations General Assembly, the Board of Inquiry by the Secretary-General of the Human Rights Council Commission of Inquiry or the Investigation and Identification Team by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. In the end, it is up to a judge to determine whether Amnesty International's accusations are well founded. Belgium itself does not have sufficiently precise and independent information to assess the incidents described by Amnesty International in its report. That said, these facts correspond to the profiles already established by other independent reports such as that of the Board of Inquiry, published in early April, due to a Syrian regime characterized by a murderous spirit for its own citizens. Belgium has always committed itself to supporting any initiative aimed at combating impunity for the perpetrators of the most serious crimes in Syria, in particular through its strong support for the International, impartial and independent mechanism to collect, consolidate, preserve and analyse evidence of violations of and violations of international humanitarian law and human rights. Another objective of the above-mentioned mechanism is to establish records to facilitate and expedite fair, independent and consistent criminal proceedings before regional, national or international courts and tribunals that have (or will have) jurisdiction over such crimes in the name of international law. Belgium, together with Germany, is penholder for humanitarian aid in Syria. Regular consultations have been held with the other partners in the Security Council on an extension after 10 July of the UN resolution in order to enable cross-border aid to continue. Cross-border aid is important not only for the north-west where there are currently two border crossings, but also for the north-east where there are no more border crossings for cross-border humanitarian aid after the closure of the Al Yarubiyah border crossing in January. This transition is essential for the delivery of humanitarian aid such as medicines and medical supplies to the areas in the north-east controlled by the government, especially in the difficult fight against COVID-19. Even as Russia continues to oppose the reopening of Al Yarubiyah for reasons that I cannot understand or approve, Belgium and Germany will continue their efforts to enable cross-border humanitarian aid in the most efficient way for all Syrians in need. Given the very rapid growth of global humanitarian needs following the VOCID-19, Belgium is preparing, within available budgets, an additional humanitarian contribution of EUR 22 million. The exact distribution of this additional amount is not yet defined, as it will depend on the needs analyses expressed by our humanitarian partners. As a first step, EUR 5 million will be allocated to the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), another EUR 5 million will be allocated to the International Federation of the Red Cross. Both are active in the Syrian region. This additional 22 million brings total humanitarian expenditure to EUR 192 million for this year. This is a record amount ever given to humanitarian aid for another country. The ceasefire in the northwest remains very fragile. The situation is still volatile. This is also apparent from the incidents of recent weeks, in which victims were reported by several parties. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the agreement reached between Russia and Turkey on a ceasefire be respected by all parties. A possible new offensive by the Assad regime to recapture the region would further worsen the already dramatic humanitarian situation. All attention should be paid to combating the COVID-19 epidemic and alleviating the humanitarian needs of the Syrian people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u58	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the quality of your answer. I agree with you on the issue of impunity, Minister. I know that this is not your case, but it cannot be limited to one word; we must go further. It must not be just an option. Belgium must take all necessary measures to ensure that international justice can at last play its role. Moreover, the position of the Socialist Party, since 2016, in particular with regard to the Belgian mandate in the international coalition against Daesh, is based on this observation. I have heard you well: the information and the investigation conducted by Amnesty International must be confirmed. But it turns out that, as is always the case when this organization plays its role in alerting, it does so on the basis of events that have occurred. She doesn't make up lies. You said that some facts were corroborated by others, but that this required the intervention of an independent prosecutor – this will be the case when international law can apply and international justice can try these war criminals – who can put into perspective all the shameful crimes that have been committed by the regimes and individuals involved. I will conclude my statement by stressing the humanitarian aspect of the consequences of barbaries in those areas, the first victims of which are civilians. Among the testimonies gathered by Amnesty International is that of this little girl who tells her mother that she would prefer that god take away their life because she has no hope anymore. It's absolutely abominable! It is therefore regrettable, in my view, that, contrary to what you are doing, Mr. Minister, your colleague in charge of development cooperation, Mr. De Croo, do not take stock of Belgian efforts in this area. This is a fundamental issue. Moreover, this explains why so many people come knocking on our doors; in fact, they have no other choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u59	Minister, thank you for the details and for your very comprehensive answer. It is quite right with regard to the provisions of international law in this area and the possibilities that we have or do not yet have in order to be able to criminalize those perpetrators of war crimes. I, as a parliamentarian, allow myself to be less diplomatic than others. So I say, war crimes. When the leaders of a state, as long as they are still legitimized, turn against their own people, when human rights are violated, human rights which we always guarantee in Belgium through all the diplomacy we have conducted over the last ten or fifteen years in a very vigorous manner, I can only encourage you, Minister, to continue to weigh Belgium's weight in this matter. I can only encourage you also to use the credibility we have with regard to the fighting we have led, to move towards better investigation and clarification and, above all, to try to move things within the United Nations in relation to what is happening. Indeed, I am convinced that Amnesty International's report is a precursor to many things that are probably just as serious or even more serious and that we still do not know. We really need to remain vigilant and take our responsibilities accordingly, certainly also with regard to humanitarian aid policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u60	Minister, I would like to add my colleagues' remarks. In my view, Amnesty International's report is true. You also answered us as fully as possible. I thank you for ensuring that Belgium's voice and the voice of reason can be heard in this unstable area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u61	Minister, I would like to join my colleagues. You're focusing heavily on that impunity. I think we should put our resources into that. You have placed transitional justice high on the UN Security Council's agenda. Belgium has put the issue forward. It is important that we continue to build up the dossier against the Syrian regime so that justice can be done and the serious trauma that the Syrian people have to deal with can be fulfilled. We must not be negligent about this. I can only encourage you to continue to raise the transitional justice issue at international level as an important issue for today and for the future. It is a good thing that we are giving a record amount at humanitarian level. After all, the suffering of these people is very great and we must continue to make efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u62	Minister, while the beginning of the armed conflict in the Cabo Delgado region of Mozambique dates from October 2017, the government in place, following the massacre in Xitaxi in early April, for the first time accused the Islamic State of involvement in the rebellion. In the past, the Islamic State itself had already called for several attacks in Mozambique on its behalf. In any case, this month of April was particularly bloody in the region in question. According to preliminary estimates, it has already claimed 1,000 victims. Minister, what can you tell us about these new attacks? Has the Government of Mozambique appealed to the international coalition to combat the attacks of the Islamic State in the region? Incidentally, are our nationals safe in the area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u63	Mrs Jadin, Belgium is following developments in the Mozambican province of Cabo Delgado, in European format, through its diplomatic office in Maputo. Since October 2017, 6 districts have been the victims of regular attacks, estimated at more than 300, with up to 1,100 deaths to be deplored. The frequency, magnitude and cruelty of the attacks continued to increase, culminating in March and April this year in the temporary occupation of three capitals. The terrorist nature of these attacks has long been the subject of various speculations about alleged links with one or more regional or international terrorist organizations. The repeated claims by the Islamic State as of the second quarter of 2019, with a reference to a local branch of the terrorist organization, as well as the recent use of the flag of the parent organization at the sites of the attacks, tend to confirm an effective link between their perpetrators and the terrorist organization. The humanitarian situation in the province is very difficult, with at least 170,000 displaced persons identified by humanitarian agencies, who have virtually no access to the areas concerned. The Cabo Delgado had also suffered particularly from cyclone Kenneth in April last year, as well as from major floods in early 2020. To our knowledge, the Government of Mozambique has not appealed to the international coalition to fight against the Islamic State. However, the Mozambican authorities acknowledged that they had recently sought external assistance. It now appears that it is at least a private paramilitary group. Following the most important and recent attacks, the Mozambican security forces are conducting several large-scale operations. The number of Belgian residents registered with our diplomatic office in Maputo is more than 245. The majority of these persons reside in Maputo and 46 residents within the country, but none are present in one of the six districts concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u64	Mr Minister, I thank you for this information, which is obviously not encouraging. The emerging danger of this terrorist home in the region, which has already caused victims, is evident. This must alert us and we must remain vigilant. We know what a lack of assertiveness has led us to date in some regions. You just talked about Syria. Here too, we must learn from the past and, in the framework of an international coalition. Where we can, we need to put these situations back on the agenda so that we can discuss them with international partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u65	Madam President, Minister, the South African Solidarity Movement, a dome movement with some 500,000 members, is deeply concerned about the growing discriminatory way in which the South African Government is implementing measures relating to the COOVID-19 pandemic. In an open letter, the Solidarity movement maps out those abuses. The South African authorities, for example, would decide who is eligible or not to be eligible when granting public aid because of the corona crisis to the tourism sector on the basis of origin. The Minister of Small Business Development stated at a parliamentary meeting that the Black Economic Empowerment requirements would apply when providing corona State aid to companies in need. Furthermore, the Solidarity Movement is concerned about government control over food distribution by charitable organisations. Only organisations licensed by the government may distribute food packages and other supplies to poor South Africans. Since only three licences per charitable organisation are granted and only five persons may be involved in the distribution of food packages per licence, it is impossible for charitable organisations to help all South Africans. That is certainly the case, because almost a third of the adult population is currently unemployed and living in poverty. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you the following. Are you aware of the facts? What is the government's position on this matter? Does the Government intend to raise this discrimination with the Ambassador of South Africa or, if necessary, at international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u66	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, tourism is an important source of income for the South African government and an important employer in the country. The COOVID-19 crisis is hitting the sector very hard, which has had to keep its doors closed since March 2020. In the current phased system, the reopening of domestic tourism is only expected in phase 2. International tourism would only take place in phase 1. South Africa is currently in phase 4. The peak in the number of infections is expected in September. Therefore, a reopening of domestic tourism is not expected until December 2020-January 2021 in the tourism sector itself. The reopening of international tourism is not expected until January-February 2021. In April 2020, the Department of Tourism announced a support package for the sector of 200 million outskirts. Companies may apply until the end of May 2020. If stopped, they will be awarded a 50,000 edge disc. In concrete terms, the above means that 4,000 companies will be able to be supported. 10,000 applications have already been submitted. There are certain conditions attached to these aid measures. One of the conditions is that the applicant must follow the applicable rules on Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE). This piece of legislation, which is a general guiding principle in the South African economy and which has then been specifically translated by sector, aims to redistribute wealth more evenly towards previously disadvanted groups, at the time of the apartheid regime. Following publication of the conditions, AfriForum and Solidarity protested against the inclusion of BBBEE in the aid packages and called this a form of discrimination. They fear that white entrepreneurs in the tourism sector will be excluded from the support fund. They filed a lawsuit and got wrong from the High Court in Pretoria on April 29th. The judge ruled that, if an advantage was created, this was not the extent to which white entrepreneurs were seriously disadvantaged. In its response to the allegations, the Minister stated that existing laws and rules also apply in crisis situations, including BBBEE. Furthermore, she also said that BBBEE only counts for 20% in the evaluation and that other factors, such as the extent to which the COOVID crisis has a negative impact on a company, weigh much more heavily. AfriForum and Solidarity have taken their case to the Constitutional Court. That hasn't made a statement yet. The case is currently in the hands of the judicial authorities. The Constitutional Court still has to decide on this. The judicial procedure must be able to take its course. Belgium looks forward to President Ramaphosa's policy to address the many challenges facing his country, including in the context of the COOVID-19 crisis. Unfortunately, South Africa is still experiencing considerable social inequalities. The government takes many measures to alleviate the suffering of all South Africans and gives priority to the most vulnerable, which is commendable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u67	Madam President, Minister, when it comes to anti-white violence in South Africa, unfortunately, the other side of the world is being looked up. I have already addressed to your predecessor Minister Reynders the rampant attack and massacre in South Africa, in which white farmers, their families and often their employees, whether black or white, are tortured, raped or murdered in the most horrible and barbaric ways. It is high time that the European Union and Belgium stopped looking away and pointed out its responsibility to the South African Government. Not only must we insist on releasing South African society from these unacceptable acts of violence, but this inequality must also be addressed. Minorities cannot be refused economic aid at the time of corona. They are denied aid such as essential food and clothing, especially to poor white Africans.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u68	Madam President, this question again shows how complicated our international relations are. A few minutes ago, we spoke about Amnesty International's report on the actions of the Syrian regime and some of its allies. It must be noted that the global health crisis, which suspended coalition operations against Daesh, has led to the re-emergence of this terrorist group in areas such as northern Iraq and Syria. Thus, on 1 May last, the Islamic State carried out a coordinated assault on several dams of units formed by the "Iraqi People's Mobilization", a Shiite-dominated government militia located near Samarra, 100 kilometres north of Baghdad. On 3 May, a new mutiny broke out in a Hassaké prison in north-eastern Syria, where foreign members of the Islamic State are being held. Since the beginning of the month of Ramadan, Iraq has thus been confronted with a wave of attacks rarely observed since the fall of the self-proclaimed "califat" in 2017. It is estimated that the organization has some 2,500 to 3,000 active men near the border with Jordan and Syria, and especially in north-eastern Iraq. These men extend their local anchor and hesitate to carry out assaults in broad daylight. Minister, the resurgence of Daesh's activities is very worrying. Have you made contact with our allies to restart coalition operations in the region? I would point out that I am already aware of your answer, since we have been discussing it in the Defence Committee since my question was tabled. So you don't have to answer that. Moreover, due to its expertise, Belgium was invited to participate in the coalition. The press reported the figure of 2,500 to 3,000 active members of the Islamic State. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u69	Ms Jadin, as a member of the coalition against Daesh, Belgium participates in its meetings which, since the beginning of the VOCID-19 crisis, have been held in a virtual manner. The situation and operations are discussed. Despite the challenges imposed by the crisis, which led to a suspension of the training of Iraqi security forces, operations against Daesh have never ceased. Belgium deployed twice – from September 2014 to June 2015 and from July 2016 to December 2017 – a detachment of F-16 under the coalition's Operation "Inherent Resolve". This deployment and the professionalism of the enlisted military were very well received by our partners. Given the threat that Daesh continues to pose, and the expectation of the coalition towards us, Belgium will indeed send a new detachment of F-16, on which the Military Operations Monitoring Committee has already had an opportunity to ask questions. A Defence Committee, as you know, since you mentioned it, will have the opportunity to vote in the coming days, given our willingness to involve Parliament in the process. In addition to our military contributions, our country is also active in the civilian side of the coalition, both in Iraq and in north-eastern Syria, thanks in particular to the contribution to the stabilization of 4 million euros in 2019. You are referring to the press that echoed 2,500 to 3,000 active members of the Islamic State. The coalition against Daesh estimates that this terrorist group would have about 11,000 fighters in Iraq. According to figures collected by the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq, on the other hand, there are 4,662 fighters in Daesh. The difference between these figures could be explained by differences in the classification of active combatants, logistics and sympathizers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u70	Minister, I thank you. First of all, as you said, we have already had an opportunity to talk about it in the Military Procurement Committee and we will still have an opportunity to discuss it in the Defence Committee. I would, of course, reiterate my full support, and I will also give it to you in this context, since I am and remain convinced that we must continue our efforts to counter Daesh, within this coalition, with all the arguments that I have already put forward in another committee. I thank you for once again clarifying these figures, which, in the end, are far more important than those I have heard in some media.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u71	Madam President, the summit between the European Union and the Western Balkans took place at the beginning of May. The issue of enlargement of the European Union was not formally on the agenda. However, the European Union underlined that, despite the pandemic, the Balkan countries must continue to pursue economic reforms, the rule of law, the fight against corruption, the freedom of the press and the well-functioning democratic and public administration on the road to membership. In the final declaration, the Balkan countries clearly reaffirmed the European perspectives. There would also be voices to ensure that the further enlargement of the European Union does not delay as much as possible the influence of the Western Balkan countries of Russia on the one hand and China on the other. This is becoming more and more nervous about it. President Vučić recently referred to the ideas of European solidarity as a fairy tale. When corona aid came from China, there were posters in Belgrade with the "Thank you, Brother Zhi." From the start of the process of rapprochement with the European Union by the countries of the Western Balkans, Belgium is competing with many other European Union partners for the strict application of all the conditions of accession and the monitoring of the fundamental values of the European Union. We therefore call on the European Commission to report on a very regular basis on progress in reforms in the areas of the rule of law and fundamental rights and justice, police and internal security. Belgium takes these reports into account at each stage of the process, such as the opening of an additional chapter. The European Council of 26 March 2020 decided to open accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania. Both countries made important reform efforts, although the challenges are still great in Albania. It is now important for the reform to continue when discussing the negotiating frameworks. The European Commission will submit a draft negotiating framework to the Member States within a few weeks. Belgium will then argue for the inclusion of the most strict conditions in this domain. I am aware that this is an important aspect of relations with northern Macedonia for Albania. Both countries have therefore concluded a partial agreement on this matter. Following the European Council, it therefore made a national declaration to the Council for this purpose. Bulgaria will impose its conditions on the drafting of the negotiating framework, but did not veto the opening of accession negotiations and did not request any EU mediation. Although this Treaty is bilateral and does not in itself form part of the acquis, I agree that good neighbourliness is one of the basic conditions for successful European integration. Following the Corona epidemic, President Vučić of Serbia made a number of unfortunate statements concerning the lack of European support and solidarity, and indeed in the context of the material assistance that Serbia received from China. It is in fact indisputable that the European Union is the main donor in the regions of the Western Balkans in general and Serbia in particular. The Western Balkans Summit announced a financial package of EUR 3.3 billion with both medical assistance and socio-economic re-launch measures for the region, the implementation of which has already begun. As far as international security policy is concerned, Serbia's integration of the acquis on the common foreign and security policy in the context of the accession negotiations, Chapter 31 of the acquis, is rightly being increasingly addressed within the Council of the European Union. Serbia's efforts in this area need to be stepped up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u72	Mr Minister, I did not quite understand the point, but I did understand the point. You seem to assume that the accession negotiations with northern Macedonia and Albania have already been approved and will start, but that is not the case with my knowledge. The conditions attached to it must first be effectively fulfilled. With regard to Bulgaria and its relationship with northern Macedonia, you refer to the importance of good neighbourly relations. This is indeed one of the issues in the Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the European Union and the Western Balkans. It is very important to keep an eye on that. Finally, we will have to monitor very closely the close relations between Serbia and China, especially now that we have seen the influence China is already exerting in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u73	Mr Minister, I am particularly concerned that the rule of law and human rights are clearly being increasingly violated by President al-Sissi's regime. In recent months there have been numerous arrests of political opponents, journalists and human rights defenders. We're talking about 60,000 people. A 24-year-old videographer, Shady Habash, died on 2 May in an Egyptian prison after spending more than two years waiting for his trial. His only crime was to have made the clip of a song criticising the d'al-Sissi regime. This tragic death is an example of the particularly brutal and arbitrary repression that the Egyptian regime is inflicting on opponents such as Mustafa Gamal, another young person still detained in this case, and thousands of others in the country. Pre-trial detention pending trial is used massively and particularly abusively in Egypt, which is contrary to international legal standards. According to Amnesty International, over 1,600 decisions to extend pretrial detention were issued between 3 April and 6 May by Egyptian judges. These decisions were made when the persons concerned could not be physically present to challenge the legality of their detention and were unable to consult their lawyer in a confidential manner since 9 March. Some detainees have now been held in pre-trial detention for more than two years, which exceeds the legal period provided for in the Egyptian Code of Criminal Procedure. It should be recalled that Article 2 of the Euro-Mediterranean Trade Agreement concluded in 2004 with Egypt defines respect for fundamental rights by the parties as an essential element of the Agreement. Mr Minister, will Belgium take bilateral or European initiatives to make it perfectly clear to the Egyptian authorities that such violations of rights are unacceptable? Do you intend to plead with the Egyptian government for the release of prisoners of opinion currently detained in Egypt, including Mustafa Gamal, Ramy Shaath and many others? Given these increasing violations of fundamental rights, is a challenge to the Euro-Mediterranean trade agreement with Egypt envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u74	Minister, my question is in the same direction as the previous one. It concerns the situation of repression in Egypt and the treatment of prisoners of conscience. In the context of the crisis of VOCID-19 in Egypt, between 4 and 6 May, 1,600 individuals, mostly prisoners of conscience, had their pre-trial detention extended. These decisions were made without the opportunity to attend the hearings and while lawyers were not allowed to present their pleadings. Some of these defendants have been imprisoned for more than two years, pending the investigation of the State Security Prosecutor's Office. The situation is all the more worrying in the current pandemic context. Since 9 March, the Egyptian authorities have suspended all communications of detainees with their families and lawyers, which is fuelling suspicion about the actual level of spread of the virus in prisons. This is one of the reasons why several human rights organisations, including Amnesty, are calling for the release of anyone arbitrarily imprisoned in Egypt. Here are my questions, minister. What information do you have on this subject, particularly through our diplomatic representation on the spot? What are Belgium's positions on this point, both bilaterally and within the European Union and the United Nations Security Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u75	Minister, Amnesty International reports that Egyptian judges have extended the pre-trial detention of more than 1,600 suspects in the first week of May, without the possibility of suspects or their lawyers being present in court. For some of these suspects, the limit of two in detention without trial has already been exceeded, and many of them are political prisoners. These extensions follow a decision of the Cairo Court of Appeal of 28 April 2020, which allows the court to rule on the release or extension of the detention of suspects without their presence. President al-Sissi's government has been accused of arresting and detaining more than 60,000 peaceful political activists and dissidents in prisons since it came to power in 2014. Among those whose detention has been prolonged are activist Alaa Abdel Fattah, lawyer Mohamed el-Baqer, blogger Mohamed Ibrahim, journalist El-Sayed Abdellah, journalist Khaled Dawoud, photojournalist Hossam el-Sayyad, journalist Solafa Magdy and activist Mahienour el-Masry. There is also Mostafa Gamal, arrested in 2018 for his role as administrator of the social media page of singer Ramy Essam, whose song "Balaha" criticized President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. Gamal's pre-trial detention had exceeded the legal limit in March. Shady Habash, who made the video of the same song, died two weeks ago in a prison in Cairo as a result of what human rights organizations call medical negligence. His detention had already exceeded the legal limit of two years. Pre-trial detention is used in Egypt as a form of intimidation. Activists and dissidents are held in prison for up to two years without knowing what they are accused of and without being able to prepare their defence. As a general rule, they may not receive visits from their family, friends or lawyers. Minister, have you publicly condemned, or intend to do so, this new flagrant violation of human rights? What steps will Belgium, as a member of the UN Security Council, take to condemn Egypt in this regard? Lastly, would this violation of human rights affect the economic and diplomatic relations between Belgium and Egypt?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I share your concern about the situation of human rights defenders in Egypt and the impact of the health crisis caused by VOCID-19 on the human rights situation in Egypt. This issue is closely followed by the Belgian Embassy in Cairo and by my services in Brussels. Our country systematically defends human rights defenders, both in its bilateral relations with Egypt and at the level of the European Union and in bilateral forums, such as the United Nations and others. Belgium has consistently supported resolutions on the theme of human rights defenders in the Human Rights Council in Geneva as well as in the United Nations General Assembly. Our country also strongly supports the mandate of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders to address the situation of human rights defenders in his work and in his reports. At the last universal periodic review of Egypt in the Human Rights Council in November 2019, Belgium, in its recommendations, highlighted laws that are a concern because they have a negative impact on the activities of human rights defenders. Together with like-minded countries, Belgium is seeking dialogue with Egypt on the human rights issue you mentioned. Allow me to remind you that the Security Council's role is primarily to maintain international peace and security. Therefore, it deals only with issues that threaten them. As you know, the European Union's new strategic framework for human rights and democracy and its action plan in this area are aimed at placing the protection and monitoring of human rights at the centre of all its policies, including in relations with Egypt. The priorities of the partnership between the Union and the Union are divided into three priorities, one of which is important in terms of governance and fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u77	Minister, I thank you and am pleased to see that you share our concerns. I know that, in international matters, the issue of European coordination often takes precedence, but we also have bilateral levers. A few weeks ago, in committee, you advised us to use our duties as Chair and Vice-Chair of Inter-Parliamentary Unions to influence certain matters during this period of VOCID-19. That is what I did in my capacity as President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union Belgium-Egypt. Unfortunately, I have not received any reply from the Egyptian authorities in Brussels. Do you have any contact with them? In any case, you can count on my collaboration to advance this issue with the Egyptian embassy in Brussels and, possibly, through other channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u78	Mr Minister, I had no doubt, of course, that we shared the same concerns about the Egyptian situation and the evolution of the regime in place since the current president's seizure of power, whose authoritarian drift is unacceptable. You can always count on the support of the Socialist Party to exert maximum pressure on Egypt, so that it can better respect human rights - although it was never a true tradition in this important country in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic185x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am delighted to see that you share our concerns. However, I would like to insist that the issue of human rights be a priority in our relations with Egypt. Given the turn of this government, as the policy of repression and the condemnation of any opposition becomes the norm, it is very important to recall Belgium's position on this issue and to use all the means available to us to ensure respect for human rights.
