ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u1	Madam Secretary, I have the following political questions. When the CRM framework law was discussed in Parliament, there were very few critical voices. I was one of them. Mr Verduyckt's party was the second critical vote. Today I hear a lot of critical voices. Today I hear Members asking what this party will actually cost. Even parties that are currently part of the present majority raise that question. I think that question is justified. I wonder how we can proceed with this. I am even more curious about the outcome of the debate on funding. Here questions are asked about how exactly this is calculated. Perhaps Mr De Maegd's motion for a resolution was thrown first. In any case, many questions remain unanswered. In short, how should we proceed with the dossier? I would also like to respond to the question of the strategic reserve. AD Energy says there is absolutely no need for that. I think that's a bizarre statement. When Elia proposed the setting of strategic reserves for the winter of 2020-2021, she also made a number of limited statements for the period 2022-2023, while a nuclear power plant closes just before winter, October, and one at the end of that period, in February. Somewhere between the strategic reserve, which is now allowed by Europe, and the start of the CRM, if ever there will be, there is no way that a gap will fall. I'm surprised AD Energy says there's no problem, even if some of it disappears. I had understood that things were going to work differently. I am convinced that there will be a need for at least a limited extension of the strategic reserve between the winter of 2021-2022 and the period in which the CRM should enter into force, starting from 2025. All other things seem bizarre to me, but I can, of course, be completely wrong. I'm looking forward to seeing what's coming. As far as my questions are concerned, I have given them to the Minister in writing and I assume that the political aspects can also be dealt with here, without having to repeat the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u2	It is not intended to read out questions here, but one can always update them, what you have done here, Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u3	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the interesting debate. Political positions are somewhat different, but I also hear a lot of similar things. Mr De Maegd, nobody has specifically said that they want to block the CRM. If that were the case, the committee would certainly not have organized so many hearings with the follow-up committee. This was prompted by the fact that, at some point, funding would in any case be available to Parliament. This could be done in two ways, either proactively or reactively, if there was a proposal or draft from KB that would then have to be endorsed by Parliament. That is precisely why we decided a year ago that the committee would follow the work closely. Mr De Maegd, you spoke to me personally about this and I would like to say once again that my group is not blocking the CRM. You will read in the reports that I have said on behalf of my group several times that we are prepared to hold the debate on funding in our committee. If I could sum up the speeches made by my fellow Members, I would certainly hear a number of similar points across the various groups. In particular, it is a question of how we can reduce the overall cost of the system. There is the input of the CREG: it must not be open-ended. There is also Elia's input: when they do the service, they certainly do not want to bear any costs. It must be absolutely cost-neutral for them, which will also have an impact on the knowledge of the ODV. Reference has been made to the cost to families. This concerns in particular the degressivity and ventilation between the different categories. There is nothing about this in the motion for a resolution at the moment. We have also talked about the cost to companies, which is not only about kilowatts and kilowatts but also about whether the degressivity will be applied as it is today, with the federal contribution and the offshore surcharge. These are elements for which a majority will have to be found here in committee if we are to vote on funding. Until further notice, a majority here in committee means 9 out of 17 votes. Later in plenary, if the motion for a resolution is adopted, it will be 76 votes. The current outgoing government has 38 votes. I have also heard nuances and questions from the parties that are part of the government, such as whether additional simulations can be made and how costs will relate to each other. This means that we are far from the 76 votes required and that a full debate will therefore have to be held. It will be a challenge, above all, to ensure that we can find a methodology in our committee to conduct that debate, so that it really leads to a result. That is, of course, in the interests of all of us. I would like to make the link with the political approach for the Minister, who is in line with the questions that have been put before. There are now two challenges. The first challenge is to find a way to bring the CRM to a successful conclusion, given the lack of a very important conclusion, namely the aspect of funding. I understand that the European Commission will not continue to work on it unless there is an answer to the question of funding. So she's gonna have to be found. Will there be another proposal on your part, Madam Secretary? How do you see things? The CREG has made itself available to Parliament. Is your administration also at Parliament's disposal for this dossier? If Parliament is to take decisions, it will also have to have the existing expertise and information in order to bring the dossier to a successful conclusion. The second challenge is to find a flanking policy. My starting point is not that the CRM should not be for me. Our starting point is that we cannot put all our eggs in one basket. Our shared concern is a good framework for the proper functioning of the market, preventing us from regulating the energy-only market, which is a bit of everyone's dream. Elements like scarcity pricing seem promising to me. The possible extension of the strategic reserve, with its limitations, is also an option. We must also make time to move towards a flanking policy. One of my questions is how you see this accompanying policy. Finally, I have a purely political question. It is often argued that the current business regime prevents a decision from being taken on funding. What is the difference with the Royal Decree on the determination of volume? Why can a preliminary draft Royal Decree on the determination of volume be drawn up and sent to committee in current cases? This is very significant, as it has a direct impact on the financing of the CRM. Why can this be done in current cases and not in funding? I do not believe that either can be done in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for this rich and long debate. In the Committee on Energy and Climate, we are accustomed to spending a lot of time, but it is important. As a preamble and in order to be perfectly clear, I would first like to say that I find it perfectly unbearable, when one expresses a doubt, when one expresses a form of scepticism, when one expresses a disagreement, to see this expression described as "political politics". We have the right, it is a principle in democracy, not to share the same enthusiasm, the same options or the same points of view. Secondly, I would also like to point out that we are discussing a dossier which was submitted to the committee at the end of December, and in relation to which the minister, in committee, expressed her optimism that the European Commission could examine it despite the fact that it was not complete. I heard Elia recall that a lot of work had been done. I have no doubt about that. But today, I have no evidence to say that we have made progress on the funding side as we have made progress on other aspects of the issue. I heard Mr. De Maegd is delighted that everyone was enthusiastic about using the Elia rate, so choosing this option. I would still like to nuance the point. In my opinion, the idea does not shock anyone, but rather I heard an expression of the type: "It is a political choice: that politicians make the choice they think the most right and we will adapt." As regards transparency, since there is complete transparency on the file, I repeat that it would be useful to send us the questions addressed by the European Commission. This would allow us to see very clearly the state of the dialogue between our services and those of the Commission. I heard about a degression analysis that was done. I think it is essential that this analysis be communicated to us. I am asking for a timetable incorporating the deadline for the European Commission's in-depth investigation, because this deadline will have a considerable impact on the whole process. By definition, we do not control these deadlines, which could be very long. At the level of the royal decrees, I also ask myself several questions, like my colleague from Groen. Why has the government not already adopted the orders sent to the Commission? A royal decree is a governmental competence. Why submit the only funding order to Parliament? Why this one and not the others? I ask the question, which is a political question. Is this a way of referring responsibility to Parliament so that it does not take its own? Or is it a sign of a lack of political consensus within the government? In this case, the question would be referred back to Parliament because in reality, within the government, there would be no agreement. I will tell you very clearly the substance of my thought, and that of my fears. I would not like to discover one day that in May 2020, we acted as if the CRM file were running perfectly well, as if it were still possible to get it out in time compatible with the nuclear release schedule. I wouldn't want to find out that we did as if everything was going well in the best of the worlds to better put our backs on the wall and say: "Sorry. Finally, the CRM will not be ready in time, and Parliament had only to take better account of the MR's saving resolution. We must therefore extend nuclear power." Worse, I wouldn't want anyone to say, "Sorry. Finally, the CRM will not be ready in time and we no longer have time to extend the plants, given the procedures." That is what the Constitutional Court has recently recalled, as you all know. In summary and in order to be perfectly clear, I would not like to discover that at best we have been stalemated and that at worst we have been led into a double stalemate, i.e. no CRM and no possible extension, i.e. more security of supply. These are my fears, explained very clearly, Mr De Maegd. We support the CRM because we support compliance with the nuclear release schedule, but we do not want its bill to be overstated and to weigh on the household bill. Minister, can you assure us that the nuclear release schedule can be met? In fact, I read in Mr. From Maegd that the choice of option does not prejudge a choice on the energy mix. What does that mean? Is this a sign of something in relation to meeting the deadlines for leaving nuclear power? As far as my second question is concerned, I will refer to the written text, because it is quite long and I would not want to artificially prolong the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u5	Madam Secretary, I submitted my question a few weeks ago. A number of issues have been discussed very extensively in the hearing, but I would like to take up my third question on the problems raised by Mr Ben Accour and Mr Van der Straeten. The legislative proposal on powers of attorneys is very broad about the continuity of the economy and therefore the continuity of energy supply. You've made a choice. At the beginning of April, you provided the European Commission with a preliminary draft KB on the methodology for determining the volume. In short, you moved away from the CREG's proposal. This obviously has implications for the overall cost of the system, because we have been hearing here for hours now that the cost of the system, when it is estimated that some very thorough comments from the CREG might look different. So one thing is connected with the other. That has also been said several times this morning: volume determination, content design, methodology... The volume of the auctions obviously has repercussions on the price. That is, of course, something else, Mr De Maegd, than the financing system on the basis of which the matter would be passed on to consumers and businesses. So one is connected with another, Madam Secretary. You've made choices about that. Now Parliament must suddenly choose the funding, but it has not been able to choose the methodology, so I would like to have more explanation. After all, Mr De Maegd says that anyone who criticises the current proposal on funding is actually thinking about the Minister's choice of methodology, even though we have heard for hours proposals from the CREG which give a different scope and content to the CRM and also, although more cautiously, point to a number of new developments that could call into question the need for CRM à la limite. What do you think, Madam Minister, of the comments of the CREG on extending the scarcity pricing, the VUB climate study, the implications of the new European regulation and the CREG's demand for new studies on adequacy that would take into account some of the current events mentioned above?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am glad to hear more details on the various methods of financing the DG and above all a reminder of the advantages of a public service obligation via the Elias tariffs that I propose in this resolution, which I imagine will be discussed very soon in this House. I am also pleased to hear from Mr Jacquet de la CREG, who, a few moments ago, said word for word in a reply that "the public service obligation is a good option". This has not escaped you, Mr. Ben Achour! So that's what he said and not what you say. As far as your remarks are concerned, Mr Ben Achour, let us be clear! I've never talked about politics here. I would ask you to check the record of the proceedings. Don't lend me words that I don't want! Simply, I was amazed at your words: "scepticism", "crazy", "cacophony", "lack of transparency", "bible and Christian hope on deadlines" arguing that it is impossible to hold them,... These are your words, honourable Member, when I have not seen you during the bulk of this committee. You've come to commission. So I was surprised by your analysis of what had been said in the morning. No more, no less! You mustn't see anything else. You're talking about the saving proposition...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u7	Mr. De Maegd, I've been in front of my computer since 9:20!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u8	You weren't on the screen, Mr. Ben Achour! I can assure you that you weren't there. Mrs Offeciers will be able to tell us as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u9	I was there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u10	Good, then! I was surprised at the strength of your words: "scepticism", "crazy", "cacophony", "lack of transparency", "biblical hope"... I had the impression that all this was coming out of the mouth of someone who really does not want to move forward. I still remind you that your party, the Socialist Party, is one of the parties that voted for this law in April 2019. I was not in this Parliament yet. I hear that you are still ardent defenders and that progress will have to be made, subject to some clarification. I'm very happy about that. We will discuss this in this committee. You're afraid of a whole series of impasses that you've just exposed. I am simply saying that Parliament can avoid the impasse. That is precisely the meaning of the motion for a resolution for which I am going to ask for the urgency that I hope you will first support in order to be able to discuss it quickly in this House. Mrs Van der Straeten, let there be no misunderstanding between us! I didn't name you personally. I reacted to a whole series of criticisms that I heard from various colleagues and then addressed you. I hear your group's will is not to block CRM. I am obviously delighted about this, but it is a question that I sometimes ask myself, as I have just explained, when I hear the opinions of each other. I know there are still questions, particularly about degression. You mentioned it. This shows how urgent it is to be discussed in this committee itself. Let us then debate it as soon as the urgency has been adopted for my motion for a resolution. I would like to conclude my speech by drawing your attention to the fact that receiving clarification from the European Commission as to how the CRM is financed is not a luxury, given the differences between Elia and the other members of the Task Force. I very sincerely believe that being able to benefit from an external objective view is an added value and I would not understand that some might feel that it is otherwise. Colleagues, you know better than I – I've only been elected for a year – that the implementation of CRM took years. By deciding not to decide today, the parliamentarians you are are taking the risk of seeing this whole process stop. Politically, I cannot accept this outcome. I cannot imagine that Parliament has met for so many years to discuss the CRM and to vote on the April 2019 law to finally decide not to decide and run away from its responsibilities. In my view, a parliamentarian must not run away from his responsibilities, but must face them, in any case in the eyes of the general public and, above all, the fragile issue of security of supply, which is fundamental. I therefore invite you to decide and not to decide not to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I have not been able to follow the whole debate, since I had to be in the Committee on Economic Affairs. I will consult the report thoroughly and look at all the information, because many interesting things have been said, based on the discussion here. CD&V does not hide the fact that we consider the CRM necessary to realise the core exit. However, we are also concerned about funding and timing. I understand that there are still many questions about this, including those of the other groups. The big question will of course be how much it will cost. If the European Commission wants to be clear about funding first, the question is, of course, who will take that decision in the end. We are in a very difficult constellation with powers of attorney and a majority that is not a majority. The big question is who will decide on the financing mechanism. Madam Secretary, what is your view on that? How do you see this evolving in the short term in political terms? Then there's the timing. We also call for transparency. We have strict timing. It is still unclear whether the Commission will carry out an extensive investigation of 18 months or not. Madam Secretary, do you have any further information on this matter? Will that investigation be effective? I would have liked to know what your vision of timing is. The follow-up committee is in the process of preparing the implementation of the CRM. The CRM Act should be amended to bring it into line with the Electricity Regulation. I would have liked to have had a state of affairs on this matter. What will happen next? Should there be an effective change of law or not? Madam Minister, I look forward to the information we will get from you and the further timing that you set out in connection with the CRM.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u12	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the speakers, in particular those of the CREG. Without their clarification, we would be half blind as Members. That should be emphasized. It is indeed positive that a critical note should be given to the debate. I have also taken note of the support given to Elia's proposal for the calculation of the necessary capacity. This table is particularly telling. "CREG estimated the costs of CRM between 9 and 14 billion over a period of 15 years. For the consulting company PwC, that would be 345 million a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u13	– Will you ask PwC to update its CRM cost estimate? The current PwC study does not take into account the new capacity needs published by Elia in the adequacy study." What we heard this morning raises some new questions. On the other hand, I had introduced some of them, which were not answered, that I am going to rest with the minister. Given that CRM is based on the principle of auctioning and, given the gas-fired power plant projects exposed by CREG, can you confirm to me, Madam Minister, that CRM will subsidize fossil fuels entirely or essentially? This would mean that its neutrality would only exist on paper. Then, how long would a supplementary study take? Minister, I know you followed the meeting carefully. The CREG provided new arguments, while the VUB experts provided a study on the influence of climate change. In view of the European Commission's Order 903, are you going to ask - because it is in your power - for a new study on the necessary capabilities? I have heard from CREG's answer to our question, confirming that the cost of CRM will far exceed that of unloading. What do you think, minister? Is the game worth it? As a reminder, we are talking about an average of 5 hours a year, even if it is to be relativized. Indeed, if I have understood the presentation of the CREG, if we withdraw the two strict winters of 1985 and 1987, we come to an average of 3 hours a year to fill. At a cost of 900 million a year or 14 billion in 15 years, that seems excessive. I imagine, Madam Minister, that you will react to everything that was said this morning, but I wanted to ask these questions. Finally, I do not know if it is in the power of the minister, but could she direct Elia to make her model, data and methodology available to the public? These are the questions that inspired me from this morning's presentations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u14	Mr President, I would first like to respond to what some Members have said. Mr Van der Straeten noted that no one is blocking the CRM. We have tried that in the past. We have never been in favour of the CRM and have certainly not been in favour of it today for two reasons. First of all, the timing. I still have a very strong feeling that the half of the file we have submitted will ensure that we do not achieve the timing. Secondly, it remains a half empty box for us. You say that the responsibility lies with us, Mr De Maegd. I do not agree with you on that. It is not us who have submitted half a file to Europe and will now sign a blind cheque. We'll never do that. That blind check is about the years to come. The discussion has also shown very clearly that the invoice will be determined by the amount of electricity we will put into the CRM. For the Minister, the choice may be clear, but the visions are far apart today. It makes me very sad that in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and the Climate, we even have to discuss a number of winters from the 1980s. We won't deny the light of the sun, will we? We are all here to fight global warming, but even this discussion has slipped into the debates. That's sad. For questions to the Minister, please refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u15	Mr. Chairman, we talked about security of supply and the urgency of this security and CRM. Referring to what has been known about coronavirus in the last few months, we have seen the danger of being dependent on abroad for a series of supplies. We said we need to build our productive capacity, we talked about the medical and health sectors. The energy sector is essential: if there is no electricity, the industry is not functioning and the country is at a standstill. We are talking here today about something essential and urgent. We have to take these decisions right away, we cannot afford to procrastinate. If we have in mind the future and prosperity of the country and the well-being of the people, we must review and vote on this text without delay. We have responsibilities to take today, in the coming days, in the coming weeks, we have to take on them. We have to deal with it, it is extremely important and urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u16	Madam Minister, you have followed the work very closely and, of course, we are looking forward, as always, to your answers. However, allow me to draw some important conclusions from today's hearing. First of all, it was clearly stated that, among other things, the CREG was prepared to assess the exact impact of the CRM on the invoice of the families and companies before the end of this month, in different scenarios, such as kilowatts and kilowatts. Are you prepared to wait for that impact calculation before taking any further steps in the file? Secondly, as far as timing is concerned, Mr Dierick has already referred to the extensive investigation carried out by the European Commission. The presentation of the FPS Economy has shown that a parallel approach is being adopted, which means that further work is being carried out on building the file without waiting for the opinions of the European Commission. Does this method involve a major risk? When you get the lid on the nose afterwards, what do you do? The timing established by the FPS Economy can undoubtedly count on your support, but do you agree with me that it is very optimistic? My third question concerns Parliament's involvement in this matter, and I shall also address you as chairman of this committee. At the moment we are in a special situation, as the present government has gained the confidence of Parliament. The government has full authority, at least in relation to the corona problem. Do you want to use the full powers in the dossier we are discussing today, or do you leave it to Parliament as a whole?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u17	If none of the Members wishes to speak, I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for her reply to the written questions and to the oral questions put today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u18	We've been working together for almost a year and I've been dealing with a very smart commission. I'm not saying that in order to flatter you, but because matter is extremely complex. I would like to take this opportunity to tell you that the stakeholders on the Monitoring Committee, as well as my firm and myself, are at your disposal in an extremely flexible and regular manner to keep you informed of all developments. The motion for a resolution tabled by one of you on this subject, which is highly technically complex, also allows you to discuss in depth the technical issues that arise in the development of this CRM. One or one of you had asked me, during all the debates on the CRM, whether Parliament should not take a position on this royal decree on financing. I replied that this subject was so technical that I was going to try to see to what extent it was possible to continue to move forward with the Commission, on the one hand, and with the government, on the other. At the time, the government was not yet in a state of health crisis. I'll respond directly to the president. The special powers granted in the context of the health crisis concern only the latter, and I will use these powers only if the health crisis lasts more than one year. I have in mind the timetable for implementation, in case we need to use a capacity support mechanism to densify our Belgian production stock and taking into account developments in other countries and in our country in order to ensure the security of supply of our consumers and businesses, which is a fundamental criterion, as Mr Friart pointed out. I would remind you that having a tool in our legislative framework requires knowing that in other countries it took several years to develop it and finally to use it if necessary. A government will not use a system that is not necessary if its production stock is sufficient; it is always to have a guarantee. Moreover, after five years of experience in these specific skills, both in Energy and in Climate, the objective has always been to ensure that our security of supply is ensured no matter what. With the tools at my disposal that I've been developing all this time, we've had this security of supply. You have seen, however, that at times there have been difficulties and that it is important for our country to continue working on a robust framework that allows our production fleet to react when an episode of supply disruption occurs both at home and abroad. We have seen both cases: a risk of supply at home during the winters 2015-2016 and 2018-2019 and a risk of supply at our neighbours in France during the winter of 2016-17. Before I begin to answer your specific questions, I would also like to tell you that the way to work with the European Commission is evolutionary and always done in parallel with another element. For example, with regard to offshore wind, you need to know that when I came into operation, I had to notify the offshore system developed by the previous government. This file has continued to evolve. Despite this, we have continued to work in parallel with the European Commission. This is exactly the same now. We have work done on our territory because our territory is sovereign in deciding its energy mix and the European Commission does not have to give its opinion on this. On the other hand, it gives its opinion on elements that are abstractly linked to systems that are proposed. I fully agree that we are talking to every detail, and I am at your disposal with all stakeholders to do so. But it is absolutely necessary for you to have in mind that what is of interest to the Commission is to know, as a judge would ask, what the request made by the Belgian State is. Three funding avenues have been proposed. A magistrate cannot react, in the same application, to three possibilities not prioritised between them, but he can do so if the applicant prioritises them. That's exactly what I'm doing. I spoke to you about it incidentally last week when I responded to Mr. Ben Achour. It is a matter of prioritizing applications with, as a main part, the public service obligation with Elia as the only contracting partner, because it is the best offer, the best mechanism that we could propose. Thus, the judge, who is the Commission, will have before him a file which can find to finalize his investigation. I hear a little lightly that the file would not be complete. The file is very complete. It is even more than complete, since we propose three ways to the Commission. But the Commission tells us that it cannot react to three paths, that we must elect one of them as the main one. As you have heard from the speakers recently, that is what I am doing. I am in the process of discussing with my cabinet the Energy DG and the Commission to move forward in this direction. That is the state of the discussion, and that is the only thing to know. All that concerns financing in terms of its practical impact on consumers, that is to say what it will cost, we are not talking about it now, not because we are not concerned about it, but because it is premature to talk about it now. The European Commission does not need this to work on the Belgian mechanism. The auctions will be launched in a year's time and we do not know yet – this has been repeated to you several times by the speakers, and even the CREG could say so – what volumes will be needed and what prices will be on the market. I come to the intervention of the CREG. I'm used to receiving a lot of opinions, and so are you. It's nothing extraordinary. It is not because one of the opinions expressed seems to be negative that we must look at this, if the procedure has been properly observed, since some are concerned about the procedure. However, the procedure was correctly observed. Indeed, all key stakeholders received in full transparency all the elements discussed which, as they arrived, were communicated to the European Commission. In doing so, everyone knows everything. From this point of view, a procedure continues in Belgium; it corresponds not only to the law, but also to the European directives as we know them to date. If changes are to occur, they will be implemented. For the time being, we have done everything that should be done in full transparency. It is, of course, up to the sovereign bodies, sovereign bodies which express themselves in the framework of a democracy for the Belgian State, namely the government to which I belong, which is in day-to-day affairs and the Parliament which is in full exercise, to position itself in a competitive manner without any difficulty. And I understand that you are seeking further clarification and that I am conveying my point of view to you. As far as precisely the proposal for a methodology from DG Energy is concerned, my department's DG and I consider that the CREG proposal does not provide sufficient guarantees in terms of security of supply. I have told you, I repeat, and I will tell you again, because this is an essential element for me, and this raises the question of what is the guarantee that our country must have, at all times, a sufficient supply of electricity. As the minister responsible, I make decisions about security of supply. This is not the first time this has happened to me. Indeed, I extended Doel 1 and Doel 2. I developed the offshore park. There was also the transition fund, etc. We've been working on how the market works. We've done lots of things. In this context, and taking into account the latest information provided to us by CREG, I have asked my DG to adapt the methodology, which has been done, as you have already been told on several occasions. There is nothing extraordinary about spending as little as possible on the implementation of the capacity compensation mechanism. It's a legal beacon. It is clear that a responsible State, whether through its government or through its Parliament, must wish to implement any mechanism that would ensure that the bill of citizens and entrepreneurial consumers, i.e. businesses, is as low as possible. This is one of the objectives that must be pursued, but on which we do not yet have all the information, because we are not yet at a time when we will finally know the state of the market in relation to the launch of the first auctions. We will make this assessment on an ongoing basis. Moreover, CREG is the inescapable independent institutional body that must make this assessment at all times and that will continue to do so. I would like to draw your attention to the reaction of the stakeholders. They have been consulted on several occasions and have widely supported my proposal, which is the proposal of the DG and that of Elias. This is FEBEG, Elia, CENTRICA, even ODE did not speak against, and several stakeholders, including FEBEG Elia, CENTRICA and Mr Watrin, indicated that their inputs had not been taken into account by CREG on this famous note 2024, which was extensively discussed. With regard to the CREG's request to conduct a new Adequacy and Flexibility study, I would remind you that the electricity law does not provide for a study until 2021. We can do all the studies we want. Earlier, Elia explained to you that, even if we were to do a study again today, the conclusions would not differ from those it drew in November 2019 and were communicated to everyone. We still need to be able to trust stakeholders and not be afraid. As far as the climate and scarcity aspects of the studies are concerned, it must be borne in mind that, for the time being, my DG is monitoring all the climate data within the framework of European requirements. The next Adequacy and Flexibility study on global warming will be published in 2021, as required by law, and will be developed in depth. With regard to the latest study by Elia, it should be noted that it uses the same database as that used in European reports - the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO-E). It is consistent with the World Meteorological Organization's recommendations to use a database of at least 30 historical climate years. For the time being, from this point of view, no consensus has been reached within the scientific community on the effects of climate change. It is therefore important that our adequacy studies take account of extreme cases and do not put themselves at risk as the CREG is doing, because it seeks to achieve theoretical reasoning at a lower price, as I have already told you. In this way, she does her job, but also shows weakness, as she uses theoretical data that do not comply with European requirements. I repeat, and I will continue to repeat, that we must not hide behind the one who speaks of this or that problem in order to better stagnate and refuse to take on his responsibilities, both technical and political. With regard to the overall cost of CRM for Belgium, I would like to draw your attention to the price to be paid to do without it, while at the same time making the guesses as regards the formation of a full-function government, a possible government agreement on the energy mix and the ability to react in the event of a problem. To put it bluntly: if by September or October we still do not have a full-function government and a supply problem arises, then it will be time to have some fears and to see that, because we have dragged forward, the European Commission will still not have made progress, unless a system is in operation that would attract investors who could strengthen our production stock. I'm drawing your attention to that. With regard to the existing studies on the cost for Belgium to do without a CRM, there is a study by the Bureau du Plan in which an indication of the cost is given to us from the beginning to explain what a black-out would represent per hour of black-out, i.e. 120 million euros. I believe that there are still responsibilities to be taken, and everyone has to take them. I do not intend to be one of those who do not take their responsibilities. If some of you, for technical-legal-political reasons, want to play with fire about a risk of blackout, I don't! I'm not saying it'll be at any price either. I would like to remind you that there are beacons in the law that provide the cheapest price. I give an example. Who, in your opinion, has reduced the support to the offshore by €4 billion to prevent the citizen's bill from increasing by €11 per year for 20 years? It's me, with this government that has ceased to exist! This means that we are quite capable of developing energy in this country by holding intelligent negotiations, which is not done everywhere and at all times. Look at what happened in the Regions with the green certificates bubble for photovoltaic panels: the 4 billion euros I saved in the federal government almost left in green certificates for photovoltaic panels. This means that there is a very good way to combine the two elements and that we must continue to move forward. In addition to the risk of security of supply in the event of the absence of CRM in our legislative arsenal and the economic consequences of the interruption of power supply, I think it would be useful to point out that the absence of CRM will also have an impact on electricity prices in the electricity market. Pay close attention to this! Indeed, even before the emergence of situations where electricity would not be guaranteed for the whole country, we know very high prices when the markets are tense. We saw him in the winter of 2016-2017 with France, which had rightly followed his safety authority and had put more nuclear power plants off than usual during the winter. For example, electricity prices in wholesale markets have directly affected all variable contracts, i.e. many entrepreneurs, with an increase ten times higher than the price standards in Holland and Germany; all this combined with the effect of loop laws (electric congestion), which prevents us from taking advantage of electricity produced in northern Germany and which transits through our lines to southern Germany. These price peaks occur at any time and must be countered by a much more robust security of supply in our territory. I repeat, we have not invested correctly and sufficiently in Belgium for at least 15 years. And we have to do it! Indeed, for a very long time, I have been among the first to argue in favour of the capacity compensation mechanism for our country to be endowed with this robustness. As far as price peaks are concerned, they are estimated in thousands of euros/megawatt hour, which will in the long run also affect fixed consumer contracts. That's what's happened to us before and I don't want to see it happen again. Therefore, consideration will have to be given to the new flexible, more interesting capabilities, and on this subject, I am being pooled so much and more. This does not bother me, but I would like to reiterate that the capacity compensation mechanism is a technologically neutral mechanism. Therefore, depending on the power of the energy sources existing in our territory and their evolution, all sources of energy are called in a mechanism of remuneration of capacity. I would like to point out that demand management, storage, thermal power plants, except nuclear power stations, and renewable energy - which could, under the impetus of the European Commission, also participate, where it is no longer subsidized by green certificates - must be able to be eligible for the capacity compensation mechanism and submit tenders in the context of the tenders which will take place. All these capacities will emerge over time and, depending on their usefulness and presence in the market, will serve the supply in our country, thereby avoiding our country's extreme dependence on developments in neighbouring countries, which translates into price peaks at times. In such a scenario where investments in new capacities cannot be guaranteed because we would not have CRM, our energy dependence on neighbouring countries will increase and will be critical and very problematic, if not very dangerous, in times of tension. We have been at the edge of the supply disruption several times, know it. This scenario without CRM would therefore lead to an acute risk to electricity supply and to high prices at certain times, which are risks that any responsible policy cannot take vis-à-vis our companies and our households. We must consider this in our reflections. I would like to turn to the other questions. If it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that I am drawn into the heat of my speech, I forget to answer any of your questions, do not hesitate to report it to me, and I will take note of the supplementary questions, which I will gladly answer. With regard to relations with the European Commission, I must be aware that I have, personally too, constant contacts with the Commission. However, these personal contacts are rarer. I am not going to disturb the Vice-President of the Commission every quarter of an hour, while in parallel my firm, my administration and the stakeholders have frequent contacts with the European administration. Therefore, I meet from time to time – by telephone, of course, during this health crisis – Mrs Vestager. I have done so during the five years of my department for various files, so I do it on a regular basis. Fortunately, I happen to know her well, because she was a Commissioner with the same responsibilities in the previous Commission. On March 25, I spoke to her over the phone for an hour and we discussed the evolution of the case. She wanted her administration's technical services to review – and we are in the process of doing so – my administration, my firm and the stakeholders to continue to deepen. But the fundamental point is that it is very aware of the delicate situation in which our country finds itself in terms of government guidance, because the federal government is still in the mainstream business of the Department of Energy – except for everything related to the health crisis and security of supply monitoring, I would like to point out. It fully understands the desire to provide our country with competitive and robust legislative tools that – as is the case in other European countries – can help with the necessary investments in the energy transition. In order to be heard correctly, I would remind you that the mechanism must be technologically neutral. These are not only thermal power plants with CO2 but also renewables, storage, demand management, etc. All this is done in connection with the Commission. However, she indicated that she did not wish to comment on the details of the Belgian project because, at the time of our discussion, i.e. 25 March 2020, a series of complementary questions still had to be discussed between Belgium and the European Commission. It has now been accomplished since April, as you have heard. Now, all the answers have been provided to the file. I come back to the request of one of you to have access to questions, answers, etc. I don't have a problem with that. I've never had one. On the other hand, I am trained as a lawyer and as a lawyer, and I am well aware, because of the principles of this training - I see Mrs Van der Straeten smiling but she will understand me - that when you are faced with a judge who must take a position, you do not reveal the exchange you have with him and you thus give him the freedom to choose the elements of the decision he will take. Even when any case is brought before a magistrate, the hearings are of course public, but, contrary to what you think, they are often public only between litigants, that is, those who are involved in the case. The greatest and most transparent publicity can, therefore, sometimes hinder the independence of the person who will make the decision. The advertising that is given in this context is a restricted advertising that is precisely related to the imperative of impartiality and secrecy of the deliberations for the person who must make the decision. I have already had this kind of discussion with the previous parliamentary committee on the questions that had been asked, for example, by the European Commission in the context of Doel 1 and Doel 2. I will therefore ask the European Commission - it is the Commission which can say - whether it agrees to publish the questions and answers in their entirety to colleagues in the Federal Parliament and therefore to all the citizens of our country. I have no problem with this, but I will ask the European Commission to approve it. Similarly, I will ask him to let me know what his intention is with regard to the continuation of the procedure. From the moment the investigation phase is finalised because Belgium has shown what principled position it adopts with regard to the main financing mechanism and will allow the judge who is the Commission to have a valid proposal from the Belgian State, I will ask him whether his intention is to conduct an in-depth investigation or not. I'm not in a position to tell you right now. The only authority that will be able to say that, once this stage has been completed, will be the European Commission. The government in day-to-day affairs has indicated from the beginning that it would be the next full-year government that would choose the method of funding. To choose it with full knowledge of the cause, one must reason in order. First of all, we need to know the attitude of the European Commission in order to be able to choose. However, there is another solution. As you can see, in the course of the diamond legislation, in the previous legislature, my colleague the Minister of Finance, Mr. Van Overtveldt had decided to introduce into the text, without waiting for the opinion of the European Commission which was continuing its analysis, that the legislation in question would enter into force under the suspensive condition of the positive opinion of the European Commission. We could do the same and decide that all our royal decrees could be published in the state they are currently in, with a statement explaining that everything is ready to work for the moment when the European Commission will give its viatic. For the time being, Ms. Vestager is waiting for her services to continue to work. She told me that she was waiting to have all the technical and prioritisation elements of the Belgian State in order to organise a new meeting which should take place at the end of April or the beginning of May. At the end of April, beginning of May: we are there now. This meeting took place with my administration and myself... I'm mixing... I can have a contact with Mrs. Vestager later, but this new meeting was scheduled to take place in late April early May and took place, I told you about it. Now everyone is sent back to work. In the run-off of my work as a member of the government, a motion for a resolution has now been tabled by one of your colleagues. I find it very interesting that you are given the opportunity to discuss this in parallel with the government and the work I am doing in this context, the CRM and the wish that might be yours in this area. Colleagues, you will still do what you want because of course you are perfectly free and independent. But I urge you to remember what I have said that there are very important imperatives of responsibility that I do not want you to bear unduly. We carry them all together, and I have the will to carry them too. But we can find a common ground about them. You have already been able to ask for my contribution on, for example, measures related to energy insecurity and, for example, to thaw the federal contribution scheme. A period like ours, and I have already experienced it in my parliamentary past, allows for communicative vessels and collaborative work between a government in day-to-day affairs and a Parliament, without any difficulty. This work obviously requires a great deal of confidence and courage between these two poles to try to find a common attitude. You will still do what you want from the proposal which is thus made by your colleague, but I find it very interesting to feed the debate. As far as the list of questions from the European Commission is concerned, I have answered you. On the European Commission's in-depth investigation, too. I also answered about the funding. For the "volume" methodology, I will still add some elements. The SPF Economy and I - and I repeat to show you that we are all on the same wavelength - have received the proposal 2064 from CREG, after a public consultation on 24 March, with a view to determining the volume parameters. It is largely based on note 2024 that CREG - whose position has not changed - sent me on December 20, 2019. While she has been a member of the follow-up committee for months, she wanted to single out in November and continues to do so. It's his strictest right, but I don't share his point of view. At my request, the SPF Economy has drawn up an opinion on this position - which we have taken into account without any difficulty. On the basis of the results of the public consultation of CREG on note 2024 and by integrating the reaction of market participants communicated during the meetings of the CRM Task Force - the Monitoring Committee - the SPF Economy produced an analysis, following which we all concluded that the method proposed by CREG did not provide sufficient guarantees to achieve the CRM objective of ensuring a sufficient level of guarantee required for security of supply according to legal criteria. Not only does Elia follow the Belgian law, which has not come out of nowhere, as it translates the European guidelines. Therefore, at my request because, at one point, we have to move forward and stop procrastination, the SPF Economy has developed a method adapted to the parameters determining the quantity purchased under the capacity mechanism. A public consultation was organised on this adapted method taking into account the new proposals of the CREG, from 23 to 27 March 2020 included. This method is on-line, as are other European capacity compensation mechanisms. It is in line with the legislative framework you voted in April 2019, its objectives and the EU legislation currently in force in this area. The adapted method is presented in the form of a preliminary draft royal decree, added to the Annex to the opinion. I chose this method and asked the SPF Economy to forward it to the European Commission to complete the State aid notification file which was officially introduced and notified in December 2019. At the legislative level, the Monitoring Committee is continuing its work in parallel in order to allow the effective organisation of the auctions in 2021. This work includes calculating the volume that will be auctioned year minus four, bringing the CRM law that you voted into line, revising the Royal Decree on technical regulations related to capacity reservations on the Elia network, and finalizing the market rules and the control order. The work of the CRM Monitoring Committee initially focused on the finalization of secondary legislation to allow the effective organisation of the first auctions in 2021. Work on amending the MRC legislative framework will resume shortly. Changes to this framework will be submitted to you shortly. The Monitoring Committee is now continuing its work to allow the auction to take place in 2021. This concerns the calculation of the volume to be auctioned in 2021, the compliance of the CRM law, the revision of the Royal Decree on technical regulations, the finalization of the market rules and the finalization of the rules of the control order. So we are continuing the work that needs to be done. This work is fundamental. There's not a minute to lose. In any case, this work will serve and should allow us to react, at any time, to the supply difficulties that I mentioned earlier. The calendar is directly related to what I just told you. I remain convinced that a decision can be taken quickly. This will enable the European Commission to finalise its instruction, to deliver to us, if it agrees, all the questions it has asked and the answers of the Belgian State and to communicate its decision to us, in the light of any complaints it has received. I would point out that in all these investigations, stakeholders file complaints and lobbyists intervene at the level of the European Commission. In order to be completely independent, the Commission must defer all the information absolutely necessary for its reasoning in order to render its decision on the question of whether there is in the conceptually proposed mechanism by Belgium a possibility of State aid which would be contrary to European rules. Indeed, it is state aid as with Doel 1 and Doel 2, as potentially with the offshore or with the strategic reserve that I had to notify. As far as the strategic reserve is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you that it concerns only end-of-life power plants. It's still not very sexy or very secure. Then I had to notify the strategic reserve, because the previous government had not done so. I also had to amend it at the request of the European Commission and Mrs Vestager, who told me that this strategic reserve had to cease, that it still existed for a limited time and that we had to find a replacement beyond that limited time. It is therefore in this context that the European Commission, because it is the sovereignty of the Belgian State in the first place, has no objection to the fact that this small strategic reserve perimeter for dying power plants is eventually replaced – that is what is required because it is an obligation – by an attractive market perimeter for new power plants, technologies and energy sources, namely the capacity compensation mechanism. So – and you will never hear anything else in my mouth – I will do everything I need to do within the framework of my skills to move forward on this capacity compensation mechanism, and to ensure that our country is equipped with the tools necessary to cope with a legitimate security of supply guarantee, which is essential for all our consumers and businesses. As regards the improvement of the functioning of the electricity market, Mrs Van der Straeten, it is the subject of work carried out by the competent bodies and included in the implementation plan which was sent to DG Energy in November. This work is done on an ongoing basis, that is, it is done simultaneously with the work on the capacity compensation mechanism. We do not, of course, abandon all the necessary work in the Belgian context. And we do it continuously, you can be reassured. With regard to neighbouring countries, the Royal Decree on Foreign Capabilities was finalised in accordance with, and with the agreement of, the Monitoring Committee in a full manner. An agreement has therefore been reached. And my administration has had contact with the Dutch administration, during which it explained the decision of the Dutch minister, my counterpart Mr Wiebes, to refuse authorisation for the cable which should link the Maasbracht power station to the Belgian network. The Dutch administration is obliged to follow the considerations, taxes and instructions of its Minister. It is aware of the content of the Royal Decree on Foreign Capabilities, which also contains a number of conditions which should respond to the concerns expressed by the Netherlands. That was explained to you earlier, and I still hear Mrs Van der Straten talking about the veto. The veto goes in every direction. The situation is such that countries between them, where there is foreign capacity, must first agree. If in a bilateral agreement - it is like in a tango, which dances with two - one of the two countries does not agree and it could be Belgium – but it is not the case, it is Holland – well, the agreement cannot be made and necessarily, foreign capacity cannot serve the country that would like it. It seems to me quite clear and worthy to be recalled. With regard to your other questions, if I have forgotten one or the other, please remind me so that I can tell you what I think. Mr President, I believe that this lasts for what it lasts. It's a very complicated file that requires a lot of effort from everyone. I am grateful to all colleagues for getting involved in this work with the resolution that brings the dossier to the carpet. It's 2:51. I have no problem answering your questions again and again so that you really have in mind all the elements you need to think further, knowing that, if I understand correctly, parliamentary work is only beginning with this motion for a resolution. Be aware of the fact that it is a coincidence that I will be on duty tomorrow in plenary for the government. When I looked at the agenda, I saw that the proposal had to be taken into consideration tomorrow, if I understood correctly. Anyway, I'll be there and answer all your questions today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. There's no problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u19	Minister, thank you for your clear and up-to-date answers. Colleagues, you can now reply. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we do not keep the replies in the order of the questions, but simply go over the different parties again, starting with the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u20	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. Over the years, we have heard a lot of things that you mention, one, two or even a number of times. We also understand how things work in these areas. So it was not really necessary to explain the point of the strategic reserve again. We know how that works. However, we also know that it has never been the intention of the CRM to enter into force, following the admission of Europe to the strategic reserve. That is simply not possible. We know that. That was also the thrust of my question, namely to consider what would happen in the interim period and that is more. Of course, we also know the discussions on security of supply. You are talking about a very great responsibility in this area, and rightly so. However, this is also a responsibility if we overload our families and businesses with an invoice that may not be necessary. The competitive disadvantage that some of our sectors already have today, because they pay a lot more for energy at the end of the journey than in the neighbouring countries, is also a great responsibility. It has already been mentioned in another debate that, at some point in the committee, we discussed half a euro on the family invoice for an hour. We can discuss every euro, but we are talking about a lot more. We would like to draw attention to this, just because, perhaps not in the previous legislature, but certainly in the previous legislature, my then good colleague David Clarinval has always pointed out to us that the federal contribution also has an important impact on our business. At one point I even timed with Kristof Calvo who would guess the correct moment when David Clarinval would talk about the cotisations fédérales. That usually happened after five or ten minutes. I just want to say that the price is an important aspect every time. You can't wipe one effect away with the other either. We are awaiting talks with the European Commission. We are keeping an eye on our mailbox, to know exactly when you will have that particular meeting with the European Commission, the meeting at which it will be decided to take further steps in the file. I understand it hasn't happened yet. In other words, we must take steps forward in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u21	Mr Wollants, if you have listened correctly, I have corrected myself. Indeed, in the text I had prepared with my DG, it was stated that an appointment was to take place at the end of April-early May. That meeting took place. I've corrected myself. So, for now, we've done everything we've planned to do with Mrs Vestager. And, a priori, we must not expect, until now, any new appointments. We continue to move forward. I would like to make it quite clear to you so that there is absolutely no confusion in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u22	Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u23	If we here as a Parliament need to take steps forward, I think that we should do so with sufficient support, working in the right way. In this respect, I welcome the proposal of the chairman of the committee. I understand from your explanation, Madam Secretary, that you also welcome the proposal. In this way, we can dust the debate with additional information, which the CREG can provide us with. We would do that during the month of May 2020. We must take this opportunity to ensure that this information is provided and that we can make a better assessment of the effects of the system as it is on the table today. In this way, we can also effectively adjust where necessary or draw attention to certain issues. That is why I am absolutely in favour of ensuring that the information provided by the CREG is put on our table in detail so that we can proceed with knowledge. We will have to keep a close eye on the impact this will have on our families and businesses. That too is important to us. I therefore think it is right, Mr President, that we should be able to talk briefly after this round about an arrangement of work on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President and Madam Minister. Thank you for being here every day for us in Parliament. I look forward to spending many days together on this subject. Mr President, I believe that the debate is running out. The positions are now known. My own position has already been explained in abundance in the two previous rounds. That is why I would like to see what happens next. I would like to join my colleague, Mr Wollants, and your own proposal. It is true that we can fill our debate with additional information that the CREG gives us. The committee must now clarify what is expected of us, how we can deal with this and what matters we need to deal with it. Several colleagues have already spoken about this. Here and there I may see a cross section. If the question is that this committee should decide on a recommendation for the government, with which it can go to the European Commission, then we need to consider how to deal with it. This isn't nothing. The various issues raised by the various groups are not nothing either. As the Minister states that every minute is needed, it is necessary to take some time to look first and foremost at how this is being dealt with. We have worked well today, with good power points and pre-passed questions on which the speakers could steal. I am therefore optimistic about the approach to the method. I should like to apologize, Mr President, for not having a specific proposal, but something will come about, talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u25	Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u26	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. However, some of my questions remained unanswered. I asked if the degression analysis could be transmitted to us and, unless I was mistaken, I had no answer. I do not think I have heard you reply on the fact of asking for Parliament's support for the financing order, but not on the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u27	Mr President, for this to be interactive and direct, if I may. Mr. Ben Achour, what do you mean by degression analysis? That's right, I forgot, but I don't know what you mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u28	It was on page 8 or 11 of the expert presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u29	Do we still have the presentation in hand?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u30	I'd like to have him in front of me. I don't see page 11, in any presentation. So I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u31	Mrs. Offeciers, can we recharge the presentation? Minister, we are waiting for Mr. Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u32	I'm checking on my side.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u33	We'll check with the secretariat for this slide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u34	Mr. Chair, I think it's on page 11. This is the decrease for some companies, a bit like what is being done for offshore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u35	What exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u36	Apparently, we talked about an analysis that would have been done on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u37	All right, I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u38	Maybe I misunderstood. I asked you the question, if I'm wrong, there's nothing to worry about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u39	First of all, I don't know how to answer you right away. It'll be for the next time, but I'll write it down.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u40	No problem. Why this strategy of Parliament's involvement on this financing order and not on the others? Why have the decrees which have been forwarded to the Commission not been approved by Parliament? These are questions of detail, but I really don't want to extend the sauce because we still have work to do. What is clear is that if you are willing to work with Parliament, it will have to be done with a fully open book.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u41	Mr. Ben Achour, we're now showing slide 11. Is that the one you wanted to talk about? Analysis of the possible degression mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u42	Yes. Exactly. Second paragraph.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u43	Mr President, all right, I can see. Thank you very much for that clarification. Why this question in Parliament? Because this is the only royal decree that must be confirmed by a law. It's typically within your jurisdiction. It's technical. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u44	Okay, but let's do it with an open book.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u45	Yes. But if the European Commission gives me permission, I have no problem. I've done it before.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u46	I'm not going to add any more. Mr President, I would simply like to ask whether you are considering a 30-minute break between the MRC part of this committee and the rest of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u47	Yes, before we deal with the bills. No problem. But I still wanted to discuss the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u48	Mr. President, it's 3:00. My three children are legitimately asking for food, but I haven't left my office yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u49	It's outrageous that you haven't done it yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u50	I wouldn't want anyone accusing me of abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u51	They've been waiting for their lunch for three hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u52	It's 3:00, and I've left them alone since 9:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u53	What are you going to prepare for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u54	I've got some soup to warm up with yesterday's spreads.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u55	All right. Then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u56	Madam Minister, the whole issue we are dealing with is, of course, also related to the choice of the core exit. They were also taken abroad. That is why the CRM was established. Our group has always opposed and deplored these choices. That is why we are also critical of a CRM that would weigh too much on final invoices for consumers and businesses. Mr Wollants and Mrs Van der Straeten have argued in favour of looking at the impact of your choices at the end of March or early April on a particular methodology. We support that 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u57	Mr President, I thank the Minister for this very comprehensive point, which finally confirms my position on the methodology proposed by the DG just mentioned. The CREG did not present, as we were told, enough guarantees for security of supply. Therefore, it is the Minister's responsibility to change methodology and adapt this methodology to a good father. That's very good. On the existence of a CRM, the question is not whether or not to have a CRM. From the moment that there is a risk in security of supply, it is the duty of a good father of a family to equip our country with a tool – the CRM – that can be used if necessary. I have already explained it extensively and broadly earlier, I think it is fundamental. When we get out of nuclear power, the question is whether we need new capabilities. And to ask the question, ladies and gentlemen, is to answer it. I would remind you that, in the absence of nuclear energy, renewables are intermittent and do not meet the needs of Belgians all year round. We have already mentioned this earlier, and if we need new capabilities, we will need this CRM mechanism to attract investors. Thank you, Minister, for reiterating what was happening with regard to the strategic reserve and the European Commission's assessment of it. Some are concerned, as we heard in the first round, about the cost of CRM, but we have been saying for a long time, the cost of lockdown will be much higher. I think you explained it extremely well by this study by the Bureau of Planning: 120 million euros per hour of blackout. I think we can't afford to pay that price if we don't have enough electricity to run our economy. It is absolutely irresponsible, I do not want and I wonder who here would like to expose the state to price spikes in tense markets, as you explained, Madam Minister, a ten times increase in the usual prices – conferatur the winter 2016-2017 in France, and conferatur the winter 2015-2016 and winter 2018-2019 that we knew here in Belgium. I sincerely believe, ladies and gentlemen, that deciding not to decide is irresponsible. We must make a choice, and that is precisely the objective of my motion for a resolution that will be taken into consideration in Thursday's plenary and for which I hope to have the urgency to be able to debate it calmly in our Climate Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive explanation. I would like to take a look at everything and look at all the information that has been provided here today by the various speakers. After all, the CRM dossier is a very important one. I agree with Mr van der Straeten that we should look with our committee at how we will proceed with the matter. There are opposite opinions, but there are also some similar opinions. The different groups must try to transcend that and look at how we should deal with it. I don't have a ready answer to that either. Perhaps that will come later, and perhaps the President can make a move in this direction. I'm always willing to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u59	Minister, I do not know if I should thank you for your answers, as long as you repeat yourself. Your intervention could have been much shorter since we already knew your position. I asked you explicitly what you had chosen from the hearings this morning. But you remain imperturbable and you always repeat the same thing, as if you were not listening and as if your calendar were dictated by others. It's pretty hopeless! I don't know if I should call you Mrs. Elia or Mrs. ENGIE. What else can I think when I hear you saying that Elia's conclusions will not change anyway? On the other hand, I find that your tone is quite haughty and lesson-giving, so as not to use the contemptuous word that is rather inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u60	Mr President, Mr Warmoes knows my tone which is extremely tonic. It is no different today than the other days. Mr Warmoes, some before you have, on a voluntary basis, translated this tone into feelings which, in reality, do not exist. I would be grateful if you would not refer to it as an argument. You also have a tone of your own and a personality I respect. The least we can do is show respect for each other, taking into account our different temperaments. Be assured, Mr Warmoes, the way I express myself has nothing to do with lobbies that would be imposed on me! It's even contradictory. Very honestly, the character you describe by referring to the inflections of my voice would certainly not be influenced by any lobby!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u61	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the ad hominem attacks dishonor the members of our committee. Even if we do not agree on ideas, there is no justification for ad hominem attacks. And when I hear Mr Warmoes talking about Mrs Elia or Mrs ENGIE, I can only react by repeating his remarks, when that was not my intention because I felt it was not worth it. He said, earlier, I quote, "it stinks of lobbying." This is, in my view, unworthy of our committee, as is the ad hominem attacks I have just heard. Mr President, I hope that this kind of attack can no longer take place in this committee. There is a debate of ideas that is very healthy and very democratic. Ad hominem attacks below the belt are absolutely intolerable!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we talk about the ideas and the clash between ideologies, but not about the clash between people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u63	Mr President, let me reply anyway! Mr De Maegd, I think the minister is large enough to defend herself. She doesn't need your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u64	Mr Warmoes, I can still give my point of view! I'm a parliamentarian like you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u65	Ideas don't come from nowhere. It is still known that there is a way back and forth between Mrs. Marghem's office and Electrabel not to name her. We can't name names, but a list is circulating.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u66	This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u67	Mrs Marghem, I think you're even more nervous than usual. It's true I'm getting a little used to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u68	You're also a little more insulting than usual, Mr. Warmoes! This is serious in our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u69	The tone of the minister is more threatening, like yours, Mr. De Maegd. I propose to conclude this incident and to allow myself to continue on the content. Minister, I was quite shocked to hear from you, and I quote: "It is not because one of the speakers receives a negative opinion that we must question everything. We must not worry because the procedure has been followed." I'm sorry, but the CREG isn't just any speaker. It is the federal regulator and you said it yourself in your presentation, it is "the independent and inescapable institutional body", adding further that you should not be afraid of trusting the actors. You may not include CREG among the actors. I wanted to point out, however, that CREG is not just any speaker. You also said that the law did not provide for a study until 2021 and that even if we did a study, Elia's findings would not differ from those of November 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u70	Mr. Warmoes, I didn't say that. It was Elia who said that earlier, as well as DG Energy. I say what is part of the information I have about this file. So don't make sense slides that serve your argumentation!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u71	I just repeated what you said before, Madam Minister. I don't know what you're referring to now, but in any case, to continue with my point, whether the electricity law does not provide for a study until 2021 or not, you have the power to do so. I note that it is the CREG that is studying now but that you remain unremovable and that you are interested in the study of Elias. Another element that I want to stress here because I was surprised at what you said, is when you say, "There is no unanimous opinion of scientific experts on climate change." Excuse me? You're also Minister of Climate. Of course, you will always find scientists who question climate change as Trump has a whole series. I'm ahuri to hear that. You say that the blackout costs 120 million euros per hour according to the study of the Plan Bureau. You repeat what you have already responded to one of our requests, I quote: "I invite you to read the Paper 03-14 of the Federal Office of the Plan according to which a single hour of shortage would constitute an economic damage of the order of 150 million euros for Belgium". However, this document from the Plan Bureau gives a brief overview of some of the characteristics of a general breakdown on Belgian soil, with an Austrian calculation model. But there are also other ways to calculate. It's not because there's no CRM that we need to talk about a general blackout for an hour. There is no question of an ex officio general blackout framework, but that is what you – and Mr. De Maegd – just insinuated. That's totally wrong. If there is a lack of electricity in Belgium, we can either buy it abroad, or expect a planned reduction in consumption, among other things, by intervening on large consumers. It is therefore not correct to make such a connection, it looks like blackmail. I asked you about CRM's technological neutrality. You registered falsely and you said that all sources of energy were callable. This is not true since you know that what will be decisive in auctioning is the cost per kWh produced. The reality is that gas-fired power plants have a much lower cost than renewables. What do you think about that? A lot has been said about responsible policy, but a responsible policy is also to take seriously the warning of CREG and to conduct this complementary study on procurement needs. Finally, public initiatives should be encouraged, as is the case in Munich or Copenhagen, to ensure realistic and sustainable electricity needs for public enterprises that are in the hands of the community and under democratic control. There is also a need for more serious planning of energy needs. That's our vision of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u72	Mr President, a lot has already been said and I have removed many questions and personal attacks from my reply. Madam Minister, I have not heard the beginning of a solution to deal with the different views. After all, that is the most important thing. You said that we will have to vote on funding later, but I want to know how much energy we are talking about. You said that an additional study would simply produce the same results. I do not agree with that, because we have heard a lot of elements here today, for example about scarcity pricing and about the research of the VUB, which is why we should not rule out such a study. Why the hell would anyone be against that? We're another year closer to D-day, so we need to use all the information we can get to make a good decision. Firstly, do you completely exclude the CREG's suggestion? Secondly, how do you try to reconcile these visions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u73	Mr President, like my colleague, Michel De Maegd, I really regret the disrespectful remarks made by Mr Warmoes. I remember the previous legislature. We have sometimes had very hard discussions with the minister, on the part of the opposition, but there was still, behind these very hard exchanges, a respect. I very much regret these shortcuts, this populism with PTB sauce. Madam Minister, you have rightly mentioned these price peaks, these risks of blackout. It must be borne in mind that we are going to have them more and more frequently. We're going out of nuclear power. Our thermal power plants are old, they age month after month, year after year. We're not renewing this park. In addition, we know very well that renewables are intermittent. We must insist that we should not think that if our production capacity is insufficient, we will be able to source supplies abroad. No, that won't be possible. Also abroad, nuclear power plants are shut down and thermal power plants close one after the other. Contrary to what Mr Warmoes said, we will not, and less and less often, be able to buy abroad. We must therefore take control of ourselves and resettle production capacities at home. It's essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u74	Minister, would you like to add a few words of conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic170x.u75	Mr President, no, I am listening to what is said. I took note of the specific questions I had not answered. There's one or two. I will have the opportunity to do so later. As far as degression is concerned, you heard what I said. The question put by Mr Verduyckt also asks for a more detailed answer, which I will give at a later stage.
