ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, pending the arrival of the chairman in charge of our committee, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, I propose that we begin our work. Let me remind you that each speaker has 2 minutes and 30 seconds to ask his or her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u2	Madam Minister, we have discussed this plant in this committee before, because it could be very important in the energy supply of our country. In that plant a considerable amount of energy is generated and there were plans to connect to the Belgian network. When I submitted the question, this was because Minister Wiebes decided in the Netherlands not to build the 13 km cable. He gives two reasons for this: there could be disturbances in the Netherlands and the construction does not correspond to the zoning plan in that region of tel. In that sense, he's against those plans. In the past, you already had contacts with the Dutch as a result of previous statements from Dutch politics. Were you aware of this decision? Have you taken note of that statement of reasons? How do you estimate it? What else will you do? Will you contact the Dutch government yourself? Do you think the firm itself should take any initiative? What are your plans in this respect? Finally, more generally, how do you see the situation in terms of our country's energy supply and energy security for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has already been outlined, so I shall confine myself to my questions. Madam Minister, what do you think are the consequences of your Dutch colleague's decision on the possible participation of this power station? Will this participation now only be indirect, through interconnections? How do you estimate the consequences of this? In the meantime, have you had any contact with your colleague? Then what was discussed or what was the conclusion? Did you consult with the owner of the plant in Maasbracht and with Elijah? If so, what was discussed there and what are the conclusions? Finally, the FPS Economy has carried out a screening of the existing legal framework to verify that there are no barriers to foreign capacity participation. Depending on that analysis, another legislative change would be needed. Has that analysis been completed in the meantime? If so, what legislation is needed? When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u4	Madam Minister, of course I have about the same questions as my colleagues. One of the reasons for Mr Wiebes' refusal is that, in his view, the new European legislation is also being discussed. It imposes an increase in the volume of interconnection capacity, which is open to market participants. At the end of November, you indeed announced a legal analysis of a number of gaps and obstacles in the existing legislation for direct, direct foreign participation. You wanted to see how they could be eliminated by amending the legislative framework and/or by contractual provisions. You also said that the implementing decisions of the infamous CRM and the agreements to be concluded between the TSOs and regulators for foreign participation should be taken into account, which will always have to take into account the possibility of direct foreign capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u5	Chairperson: Vincent Van Quickenborne. Madam Secretary, what is the state of this legal analysis of the legislation by the FPS Economy on direct foreign capacity? What does that decision mean for a possible participation of the Maas plant in the CRM mechanism? Is that participation now, perhaps, questionable? Have you had any contact with your Dutch colleague and/or with the operator?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u6	Madam Minister, on 27 November we discussed in this committee the direct participation of foreign capacity in the framework of the CRM, which specifically looked at the case of the Clauscentrale in Maasbracht. You said on 27 November that the legal analysis, which identified a number of gaps and obstacles in the current legislative framework, was ongoing. An analysis was made of how these can be eliminated by amending the legislative framework and/or through the contractual provisions. We also discussed the consultation with neighbouring countries at that committee meeting, on which documentation has been published on the website of the FPS Economy. The Netherlands, both the administration and TenneT, reiterates their support for interconnection rather than direct participation. The consultation document states that Belgium has replied that a further analysis will be carried out. In the meantime, it appears that the application for a concession on Dutch territory for a direct cable was refused in the Netherlands. The realization of this cable would take five years. Madam Minister, what is the result of the further analysis of the comments of the Dutch administration and the Dutch TSO, as mentioned in the consultation document? What is the status of the changes to the legislative framework and/or contractual provisions? Has there been any contact with the Dutch government about the specific case of the Claus C plant?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u7	Madam Secretary, I have similar questions. This is not the first time that we have discussed the Claus C plant in this committee. Last year, the Dutch Minister of Economic Affairs had already sent a letter in which he wrote that he preferred to keep the power station only for the Netherlands, as production capacity in the Netherlands will also disappear in the coming years. In the middle of last month there was news that RWE's concession application for the construction and maintenance of 10 kilometres of cable on Dutch territory was refused by the same Minister Wiebes. He refers to two opinions on this subject, to which I refer in my question. RWE reacts surprisedly to the refusal, but is counting on the concession eventually to arrive. That's why I have some questions for you. How do you feel about the refusal of the concession by your Dutch fellow minister? Were you informed of this by him yourself? What impact does this have on the possible participation of this capacity in the future CRM mechanism? Do you still believe in the participation of this plant? When do you expect the conditions for foreign capacity to participate in the CRM to be ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u8	Mr President, Minister, a great deal has already been said, but I would like to add a few more points. I think it has become clear that the situation in our neighbouring countries is becoming increasingly acute. The fact that the Clauscentrale is now being refused by Mr Wiebes is not a coincidence. We see it more and more often that people sit on the eggs like a goose. We must also note that there are many objections in the Netherlands to the fact that this plant would start delivering to our country, while emissions are happening in the Netherlands. That also plays a role in the whole dossier. I therefore think that the construction of the cable has a bit more feet in the earth. I would like to refer to the discussion we had a while ago. Then Vice Prime Minister Vande Lanotte said that the cable could be built in three months. That's what he said in August of 2014. For example, the power plant could supply electricity in the winter. You may recognize this story, Madam Secretary. All this makes it less obvious and that having own production capacity is not always so unwise. As it happens, we have a number of nuclear power stations that could be eligible for this. But I am very much looking forward to what will be told about the direct connection of the power station in Maasbracht.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u9	RWE's refused concession application concerned the construction of an underground electricity cable in order to build a high-voltage cable between the Clauscentrale in Maasbracht and the Van Eyck switch station in the municipality of Kinrooi in Belgium. I have not yet had direct contact with Minister Wiebes or with the operator, but I have been informed of the refusal of the concession application by my administration, which has received an explanation because of the Dutch administration after the decision was published. The Dutch administration has confirmed to my administration that, taking into account the opinions obtained from TenneT and the municipalities concerned, the concession was rejected on grounds of a technical nature and of spatial planning. The Dutch Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy can indeed only take into account environmental, technical, safety and spatial planning aspects when assessing a concession. This rejection concerns only the route described in the application. RWE is free to submit a new application for, for example, another route. I am not aware whether RWE will apply for a new concession for another route; this concerns an autonomous decision of RWE. It may opt as an alternative to supplying the Belgian market via interconnectors rather than via direct cable. It may then participate in the capacity compensation mechanism as indirect foreign capacity rather than with direct foreign capacity. The capacity compensation mechanism is technology neutral and a fortiori neutral compared to the energy producers. Auctions will decide who may ultimately deliver the necessary capacity. So I never counted on a specific project or plant. It is, of course, important that the mechanism is properly designed and that the safety parameters are reasonably calibrated so that there will be sufficient supply of new capacity to deliver the requested volume. However, the legal analysis of the participation of direct foreign capacity has shown that there does not seem to be a need for a legislative amendment and that the conditions for participation can be laid down by royal decrees, in particular the royal decree laying down the rules for foreign participation, as laid down in the CRM Act. Indeed, the law provides that conditions for the participation of this capacity are to be laid down in a generic manner, independently of the Maasbracht dossier. These conditions are registered in the Royal Decree Cross-border. I would add that we are preparing royal decrees. We have a specific order for the capabilities that would be connected to our territory. This implies – and I answer Mr Wollants' question in this way – that there should be agreements between the countries which relate exclusively to each other, in particular for reasons of greenhouse gas emissions, statistics which you have noted, but also the administrations and other countries, (...) on the condition verified under the pre-qualification procedure and to provide written proof of the favourable and unconditional opinion of the competent authorities of the bordering European State on whose territory the capacity concerned is situated. For the moment, you will have understood that authorisation is far from being granted and that there is no question that Maasbracht will benefit Belgium otherwise than through conventional interconnections. Therefore, if this plant is reactivated, it will participate in the Dutch national network and, through this and through the interconnections between Holland and Belgium, it will also participate at certain times in our security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. For the sake of clarity, I am not in favour of gas plants, and certainly not of new gas plants. In that sense, this gas plant is a very important one. What bothers me in this dossier is that a Dutch minister takes his wishes for reality. First, he says that he does not want this plant to have a connection with Belgium and then refuses it for reasons of spatial planning and for technical reasons. It's gonna take 13 kilometers of cable. I do feel that there are other cats to be flogged in terms of the energy security of our country than the construction of 13 kilometres of cable. I have a strong feeling here that the Netherlands is playing with our feet a little bit. In a freed-up energy market, things should be different. In short, we must remain vigilant. I hear you say that this power station is not out and that we will be able to use it in other ways for our energy security, through the Royal Decree Cross-border. All right, we'll see. We shall certainly continue to follow up on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. The idea of using the Maasbracht power station was born in Parliament a long time ago. We have done so on several occasions. It is now clear that the Dutch Minister's decision will not make the necessary cable available. However, you have made it clear that this is not a problem in itself and that there are other possibilities on which that power station can still serve our security of supply. I think we should pay particular attention to the fact that it must not be compromised. Thank you for clarifying that there is no need for a change of law, and that you are fully engaged in the preparation of the royal decree. I believe that there is absolutely no time to waste to take this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u12	Madam Minister, you will not be surprised that I agree with Mr Wollants that this dossier has a signal function, even if it can be done in the traditional way, through interconnection. I note that the Royal Decree Cross-border will regulate the rules for direct foreign participation through generic terms. This will be discussed in the next debate. We will have to see how things are going smoothly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u13	Thank you for the answer, Madam Secretary. I believe that the most important thing is that we decouple the conditions and possibilities for direct participation from the specific situation of the Claus C plant. It is not because that concession is refused today that we should not have rules on direct participation. After all, we do not know what will happen next. Will the operator comply with the refusal decision or will he appeal it? I do not know the specific Dutch rules on this, but it is not certain that the project is dead. The most important thing is that we do have a sufficiently robust framework that is specifically about direct participation. It is indeed up to everyone who has a project to assess whether and how they will participate in an auction under the CRM. In this sense, I am glad that the legislative work continues, but that will undoubtedly be further developed in the next debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u14	Madam Minister, it will have a lot of ground to cover before we can go on with this dossier. Of course, a direct connection has a number of advantages. We know very well that there are a number of effects to be expected in the entire Flow-Based Market Coupling system if this is to be done through interconnection at the time of a shortage situation. That was of course one of the advantages of a direct connection, because it will, of course, suddenly be on the grid and will function in a very different way when it comes to priority and where the flow is going. In the case of interconnection, it is the large users and the larger countries who are going to increase the flow and bring in a larger proportion in the event of scarcity, whereas we are already being disadvantaged in France and Germany, for example. We will therefore have to wait and see what happens, but it is not impossible that this dossier is not yet completely out of hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u15	Madam Minister, the participation of direct foreign capacity in the CRM is explicitly provided for in the legislation and let us be honest and call a cat a cat that was of course aimed at the power station in the Netherlands. There is also the advantage that it is a large, adjustable gas plant that should no longer be built, and that we can therefore directly retrieve the electricity from it. This could also have a positive impact on the price to be paid for it within the future CRM. If we cannot use it and have to work through interconnection, we will have to find 1,300 megawatts of capacity somewhere else. I have the impression that Minister Wiebes is now conveniently hiding behind two negative opinions. You refer to the advice on spatial planning and to municipal objections. I have the impression that he is quoting these cases so that the plant should not run exclusively for our country. It might be a good thing that you contact him directly to see if you can still adjust it. Finally, it is also looking forward to the elaboration of the Royal Decree Cross-border, which your administration is working on. When can we expect these rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u16	I meet my counterpart a few times. He is not regularly present at European meetings but I can contact him by phone. The fundamental question is what I have to do. For the moment, this capacity is there and, for administrative reasons that are not just pretexts but realities, the route of this cable must change. If things were to change administratively, I could perhaps see my colleague again and ask him for his opinion on this particular point. I think the real reason is that he needs that ability and that to the extent that he is on his territory and is sovereign there, he has permissions to give or not. Is he willing to give these authorizations when he needs this capability? He is sovereign and he sovereignly decides on his energetic mix. That's the whole problem. Belgium is not only connected with Holland. It is also bordering Germany, France and Luxembourg. One can possibly imagine an exclusive univocal umbilical link with Belgium from other countries. In any case, we will need agreements on statistics because the greenhouse gas emissions that are produced for us to have this electricity via the exclusive cable will be accounted for in the countries where they are emitted and this will not necessarily do their job. There will therefore be a request from these countries to take the greenhouse gas emission statistics at our expense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u17	It is therefore clear that you are giving up the Maas plant as being directly connected. You can defend that statement. The fact that there is CO2 emissions in the Netherlands, which is ultimately at our service, is not a new element. We already knew this at the time when we had the legislation on the CRM mechanism. I think that we all have to take into account the reality of the day, but that means that the CRM may be even more expensive for consumers and businesses. That is the biggest issue that has not yet been resolved and the clock is ticking unforgivingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u18	Mr President, this is a good transition for the next debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u19	That's right. It was not a question, but a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u20	Madam Minister, as has already been pointed out, the CRM notification dossier, which was intended to ensure that new gas plants would be built, was very incomplete. We've already warned you about that. Steps have also been taken on which the CREG was very critical in the public consultation. In fact, Elia's CRM task force still assumes that the notified dossier will be fully approved on 15 June 2020. The question then is what reactions are being made by the European Commission today. After all, we hear a lot about that in the corridors. Among other things, it was about a delay that could reach 18 months, which makes the link with the core exit almost non-existent. Madam Minister, first of all, what questions has the European Commission asked about the notification dossier in the meantime? Secondly, what timing does the Commission propose? Has it confirmed the date of 15 June, which is used, inter alia, by Elijah, or does it not intend to do so at all? If she mentioned another date, we'd love to hear it. Thirdly, what documents do we have to deliver to the Commission in order to complete the dossier? After all, it was only half a file, and you know it. Fourthly, what additional consultations will the European Commission organise? Fifthly, can you confirm that the system will not be delayed? There's something else I hear in the walkways.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u21	Madam Minister, on 18 or 19 December you sent the Belgian application to grant aid to gas plants and other electrical capacity through the so-called CRM, to the European Commission. You said, "C'était un travail suffisamment abouti." It was therefore sufficient to submit the application, even if it was incomplete. If I'm well informed, you didn't file the financing part. According to the press, however, the European Commission has some questions about funding. According to the media too, the timing of the CRM is at risk, as the European Commission would now be threatening to launch an additional in-depth investigation, which could take 18 months. Of course, the deadline of 15 June 2020 will no longer be met. Madam Minister, in the background, Elijah and the regulator also have the opposite view, with Europe having questions. However, I note what you will undoubtedly repeat here, namely that you will evaluate the questions of clarification of the European Commission as a positive matter and that it would be possible to amend and supplement them afterwards. In this respect, you referred to the similar working methods in dossiers such as the strategic reserve and the offshore degressivity. Can you explain to us today the questions for clarification of Europe? What questions are we talking about? It may be early day, but have you already clarified it? How do you respond to the reports that the timing would be compromised? Will it be necessary to wait for a government with full powers to complete the CRM dossier? In any case, it has always been your view that, as far as financing is concerned, we must wait for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u22	Madam Minister, the formatting of the CRM dossier was indeed followed by a very intensive process with very strict timing. The file was formally notified to the European Commission on 19 December 2019. The European Commission would now seem to have provided you with a list of 20 questions for clarification, in order to determine whether or not there is unlawful state aid. Moreover, the European Commission would also have asked for an additional investigation, which could take up to 18 months, so we would not know in 18 months whether or not the European Commission will give the green light. If that is the case, the whole timetable will be confused. Madam Secretary, I am asking all my questions here in the conditional manner. After all, we need to hear everything through the press. Each member has also read the messages. That is why we all want to be clear about what is true of all the reports. Is it true that so many questions have been asked about funding? Do you already have an idea of the time span within which you can give the answers and the trend of your answers? Is it also true that an effective investigation is being conducted? Can you confirm that the investigation will also take 18 months? If that is the case, what are the consequences for the further implementation of the CRM? Will it be necessary, for example, to postpone the auction planned for 2021? Can you be sure about that or not? Finally, a Task Force CRM has been set up. How's that gonna go? How will you deal with this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u23	Madam Secretary, Europe's questioning is no surprise. In fact, I think it was the strategy to submit the draft, which I believe was not yet finished, in any case, after all, which had to be done last year and then look at how you would deal with any questions. I think that was always your intention. Those questions are now there and my questions are the same as those of colleagues. What does Europe want to know from us? What about the timing? Those are the two most important questions. Is there even a plan B? When I hear all this, I have the impression that the dossier may not be going to work out. What do we do? Is there a plan B in case we don't get CRM legislation around?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u24	Madam Secretary, I'm just gonna go along with my questions. Firstly, will the government decide on funding in current cases and submit it to Europe? Secondly, does Europe have any questions about the need for the CRM, in other words about the difference of opinion or interpretation between Elijah and the CREG as to the necessity? Thirdly, what additional questions does the European Commission ask? Fourthly, when will the European Commission decide whether to proceed with an indepth investigation? What is the impact of this on the timing of the CRM file? Fifthly, what documents are missing from the file and are still to be submitted? Sixthly, in La Libre Belgique it is suggested that the European Commission would organise a public survey. Are there any indications of this and what would that mean? Finally, during the hearing, it was repeatedly stated that amendments to the Electricity Act should be made. We have just learned that this is not the case for direct participation. Is that the case for other aspects? Is a design being prepared? By when? Do you make an inventory of the elements that need to be adapted in the Electricity Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u25	Minister, on 19 December 2019, I asked you about the notification to the European Commission, in particular about the lack of a response to the fundamental question of funding. I asked you how the European Commission would react to an incomplete dossier. I also asked you whether, given this incompleteness, it was temporarily deciding not to deal with the case, it would be necessary to wait for a full-fledged government to get the CRM file out of the deadlock and if this inevitable delay would not lead to insurmountable difficulties. At the time, you told me that I was mistaken, that there was no requirement that a notification file should be complete from the time of notification and that the file submitted was sufficiently advanced to allow the European Commission to carry out an in-depth analysis. Last week, however, the press referred to a very probable rejection of the Commission's green light for a CRM in June 2021 in the best of cases. In particular, the Commission would like to know how the subsidies offered to future new gas-fired power plants will be financed. In addition, I was able to read that the likelihood would be great that the CRM would be subject to an in-depth investigation by the Commission and that it would only be launched on the basis of a full file. Minister, could you provide an update on the Commission's review of the proposed CRM that you notified him? When will the dossier be considered complete by the Commission? What is the status of funding? Do you also confirm the Commission's willingness to launch an in-depth investigation when the file is considered complete? What is a thorough investigation? Do you confirm the length of the investigation by the Commission referred to by the press (12 to 18 months)? How do you react to this? What new deadline can be expected? The press mentions the month of June 2021 in the best of cases. Do you confirm that? If not, what will be the consequences for the organisation of the auctions for the new electricity generation capacity? Finally, should we clearly fear for the plan to exit nuclear power in 2025? Are you considering regular information from Parliament on the current process or should the press be kept informed of this crucial issue for the country's security of supply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I agree with the questions put by other Members, in particular with regard to funding. The European Commission would have asked questions about this too, as we heard from the press. There is still no clarity on the royal financing decision. How will the CRM be financed? Who's gonna pay for that? Will households and industry contribute to this and how much? Will the State itself contribute a share?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u27	Madam Minister, we have organised interesting hearings in which you have participated, as well as your administration, the CREG and Elijah. I felt then at two moments that something was wrong. Firstly, there was, of course, the whole debate on funding. I remember questions from colleagues to whom your administration could not or would not answer. In the end, it appears that the dossier submitted to Europe will remain incomplete until there is an answer to the question of financing. That's the crux of the whole story. Secondly, I remember the task force also saying that it was aimed at enabling Europe to make its decision by the summer of this year. Of course, that timing is not coincidental, because that is also the time when decisions may have to be taken on what Mr Ben Accour mentioned. He called it the elephant in the room. One is connected to the other. In this sense, we must be very careful and take decisions that will have to be called man and horse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2019 I submitted the CRM file to the European Commission in order to be approved in the framework of the State aid procedures. The Commission forwarded questions to us during January 2020. These are questions about additional explanations about the design of the mechanism and not about the necessity. This is the normal course of action. Once the file is considered complete, the Commission rules and guidelines provide for a maximum period of two months for the approval of a State aid dossier. Even if there is an in-depth investigation, a maximum period of 18 months applies. In practice, that is on average a year. Among other things, the Commission is asking for a simulation of the auction parameters of the National Energy and Climate Plan and the final versions of the draft KBs, insofar as they have not yet been delivered. Finally, the Commission also calls for a clear description of the financing mechanism. My administration will do everything in its power to answer all the outstanding questions as soon as possible. I asked the CREG with great urgency for a proposal on a methodology for the parameters determining the volume, as at present I have only received a note from them. This should allow for a rapid response to the Commission's outstanding questions, except with regard to the financing mechanism. I have indeed asked the Commission to continue the examination of the dossier on the basis of three funding options, because I prefer that the forthcoming government should take a full decision on this matter. In addition to the formal demand for the completion of the file, informal indications were also received that the Commission would consider opening an in-depth investigation. An in-depth investigation may take up to 18 months. Although this should not necessarily lead to a delay if it is to be carried out quickly and quickly, this uncertainty is undesirable in view of the first auction to take place next year. In order to launch the in-depth investigation deadline, the Commission must accept that progress is being made without final choices being made in the financing options. Meanwhile, the CRM follow-up committee, working in parallel with the FOD, the CREG and Elia, is continuing to prepare for the implementation of the mechanism. This includes the preparation of adaptations to the CRM Act. These are mainly adaptations to the electricity regulation which has since entered into force. In addition, some minor adjustments will be proposed, inter alia to clarify the interaction between the CRM and the production licence, and to clarify the control of the mechanism. Mr Ben Achour, I prefer to inform you myself rather than you are via the press. In order to complete the information I have given, you need to know that I will meet with the Commissioner responsible for this matter later this month to explain the whole issue, knowing that the accompanying committee I have spoken about and my administration are interacting with the European administration. Having said that, I cannot certify to you that the European Commission has the will to deepen the investigation. I used the subjunctive to say it in Dutch because nothing is less safe. You have to be careful. We need to stay focused on the emergency. I have a timing in mind and I intend to make every effort – I said it and I repeat it – to respect it. That doesn't mean I'm going to make it. I do not wish to show provocation or arrogance by guaranteeing that I will succeed. But I take responsibility for wanting to go as quickly as possible and convince the Commission by explaining the Belgian situation. You mentioned some things. These are standard procedures. Mechanically, this is not what happens systematically when you interact with the European Commission. There are risks, risks that you have highlighted. But there's always some. And the press always prefers to report risks rather than profits. It is clear that, for five years, I was called upon to run a press that ex officio highlighted what was not going to go. All this was not mechanical. We remain cautious in our vigilance. We also remain very active and we ensure that this mechanism that you voted in April 2019 finds expression in our legislative framework through implementing orders. With regard to funding, as I have explained to you, we must not make a choice – for the time being, a choice that we cannot make since it is a new policy and we are in business – for the Commission to analyse our case. In fact, we answer his questions without any problem. You must know that, for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, I have received dozens of questions that I have answered. Finally, the extension was accepted. It remains a procedure to be "emptyed" soon, by a decision of the Constitutional Court, to see clearly as regards the extension of these two plants until 2025. With regard to the nuclear exit plan, which is my specification, I can tell you that I am fully involved in ensuring that the timing is respected. But let's not set dates like June 2020 and try to move forward! I will be here regularly to provide you with information. That means that next month, as I have had this meeting with the Commission, I can give you some additional information and so on. We will monitor the CRM at the commission level, as I have been used to doing for all the other subjects here for the past five years. I am of course at your disposal for other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I think we still have the same problems here as we have since the end of 2018. No choice is made in terms of funding. Now the three potential options you have defined are being transmitted to Europe. With all due respect, I'm not sure it should be those three options. I can imagine that the next government will make a different choice in this area than to pass the invoice on to citizens and businesses. I also notice that you are moving away from the date of June 2020 and that there may well be 18 months to go. That actually means that today we do not know anything about the future of that mechanism and what it should look like, let alone that it can be made operational. I hear a lot more questions in your answer than answers pop up. With the path we have now taken, I fear that it could take a very long time to achieve a result. You refer to the file Objective 1 and Objective 2, but there is a small difference: that was a good file. That was a good setup and was well studied. Here a number of pages of your file have simply not been filled in and you expect the European Commission to make the choices for you. What do you do when one or two of the funding possibilities are accepted by Europe and the other is not? Do you then allow Europe to choose who pays? I don't think that's a responsible choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u30	Mr Wollants, I know your thesis of extending nuclear units in our country. Your party is involved in negotiations and can very quickly form a government and make decisions! You speak of the fate of Doel 1 and Doel 2, but they have been produced since they were extended and will certainly produce until 2025. So I don't see what the problem is. As far as funding is concerned, it is obviously not the European Commission that will choose. It is a full-fledged government that, after examining what the Commission has said about the three options that have been notified, will choose the option politically appropriate to the situation or that will fall within the framework of the government agreement that will support this new government. I can't tell you anything else. That is the reality, and it is not my political group that is late to try to produce a full-fledged government that voters expect. We must bring things back to their fair proportion!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u31	Mr President, you mentioned the name of man and horse. I'll do that. Today, one of the candidate presidents of your party has made it very clear that he is questioning the key step. As President-in-Office of the Council, he advocated keeping the two youngest power stations open. I'm glad to hear that. It's about moving insight. There is indeed a connection with what happened in the last summer and with what colleague Ben Achor has mentioned. Madam Secretary, you could make it easier for yourself and your party. For security of supply, reduction of CO2 emissions and affordability, you may find an ally in your liberal colleague on the other side of the language border if the MR and yourself want to cross the proverbial Rubicon. As far as the dossier is concerned, Madam Minister, I hope that you will convince the European Commission of the complex Belgian situation for the CRM. There is no government with full authority for funding. I am not very optimistic about that, but there are solutions, if there is the political will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u32	Madam Minister, the CRM is still an important tool to ensure our security of supply on a key trip. From the outset, we stressed the importance of timing and respect for it. If there is an additional investigation, the timing will be compromised. You have said that such an investigation takes up to 18 months. It is not yet certain that it will be effective as long as it takes. We will hope that it will not take so much time, because if it takes 18 months, then the first auction will be compromised, and then much more might be called into question. Let's work on it and hope it doesn't take too long. Funding and affordability are my second concern. So far, several scenarios have been put forward and no choice has yet been made. You are right to say that as a minister in current affairs you cannot make that choice yourself, because funding will have an impact in the coming years. It is up to a minister with full powers to do so. In doing so, I call upon the major parties to effectively form a government. Those here who are calling out loudly for clarity about funding should encourage their colleagues to form a government, because then it will soon be possible to clarify funding. Don't decide is sometimes decision-making. That may also be the case in this file. We are in favour of acting as quickly as possible on this dossier and clarifying it. A new government will be crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u33	A lot has already been said. Your answer didn't really reassure me. For me, CRM is mainly a dossier of a lot of questions. In the very first committee in which I was here, there was a discussion between Elijah and the CREG about the amount of electricity we would need later. That is still not clear to me. After that, a lot of questions have been raised about funding, today about timing. I have the impression that you will remain reasonably calm. I didn't hear you talk about a plan B. That is why I find this situation worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u34	I think my colleague, Dierick, has summarised it very well. Don't decide on this is deciding on this, too. This applies not only to the CRM, but also to the exit from nuclear power. I understand the Minister when she says she can't or won't decide because we're in business right now. I also understand Mr Dierick's plea that we need a government first and foremost. It is also my preference that a government should take office with full authority that can take a decision across the board. I haven't had any illusions in a long time. We're now nine months after the election. A lot of research has been done. I don't see a government rising up next week. I believe that Parliament has a role to play in this too, particularly as regards the financing that should ultimately be validated by Parliament. The choice made, whether or not by a government, and the RBs in relation to funding, must be confirmed in this House. The plan B could consist of a dialogue between the executive who maintains contacts with the European Commission and Parliament. It will allow us to see how we can move forward with this dossier. What we should all object to is that there is no decision and that we are muddling in all areas. The CRM was approved. This means that there was a vote in favour of an insurance mechanism. Whether or not there is a need remains to be seen. That will still have to be evaluated. Then the mechanism may or may not enter into force. It is the responsibility of all of us to see whether we have a set of rules that can be used when it is necessary. That is separate from the discussion on the core exit, because Elia said that even if the nuclear power plants were to be extended, a CRM might be needed, while we have also heard the CREG, which took a different view on this. Apart from that discussion, it is our responsibility as a regulator to ensure a set of rules that can pass the test of Europe. It would be good governance if we looked at the possibilities in terms of funding. I agree to await the outcome of the first round of replies, but I believe that everyone here knows the recent case law of the Court of Justice. The chances of an in-depth investigation are greater than small.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u35	Minister, what you are saying today is not exactly what you said in December. Indeed, you certified that the file submitted was sufficiently complete to be analysed by the Commission. This is not exactly the case today. You continue to take refuge behind the situation of a government in day-to-day affairs that cannot move forward. In this case, there are two options: either you rely on Parliament to find ways to solve the problem of funding. And I am sure that Parliament is mature enough to work constructively on this. Either you assume that in the day-to-day business, we cannot move forward faster and that, therefore, the deadlines for leaving nuclear power will not be tenable. In that case, it must be clearly assumed. We can't stay in the shadow of the current business situation to stay in the middle of the ford. You still have the opportunity to assume and say that in day-to-day business, you can't move faster on CRM, you can't make a complete file. The Commission is waiting for a full file. On the other hand, you can say that, given the impossibility of moving faster on CRM, we need to review our nuclear release deadlines. That is not what my political group wants, but the truth has its rights, and in politics it is necessary to assume certain truths. Could you also clarify when you will see the Commission? Do you already have a date? Finally, how do you appreciate the role of CREG in all this? The Evening article is about squashing. How do you appreciate the role of CREG, knowing that there are a series of appointments that must be made within the organization?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u36	Mr Ben Achour, I understand your reasoning. If it is intellectually correct, it is, on the other hand, not perfect. It does not make the necessary contribution to the evolution of things.You know very well that the discussions on this kind of extremely complex subject are not settled as mathematics, I repeat. If you could come with me, you'd understand what that means. What was true in time T, is less true in time T+1. These are things that must be accepted and addressed with clarity. I'm not the type to take refuge behind anything to try to get me out of the thick. I have the will to continue the work assigned to me, according to a very specific specification, which was to provide for a mechanism to pay for capacity. According to some speakers, who are neither neutral nor inexperienced, in the event of an extension of certain power plants, we will need this mechanism anyway. Personally, I've been based on this idea for five years. I was among the first, I am convinced, to want this mechanism and the CREG was in the first to not want it. The situation is on track. This has nothing to do with a situation of renewal of management at CREG or, if not, it is really bad policy, but it is a position that it has always adopted. And it is only over time that it has evolved towards a more open, more understanding position, after suddenly closing for reasons related to the change in European legislation, where the power of regulators has increased. This has created tension between transmission system operators and regulators on the question of who will ultimately determine the volume. Again, I find that I have to work with CREG on the basis of a note. Once again, I sent him a letter telling him that I needed a methodology file in order to be able to visit the European Commission at the end of this month on 25 March. That is why I need to keep in mind the elements coming from all the stakeholders concerned in order to explain our situation. I will tell them that we will answer it according to such and such a parameter. What I'm telling you is nothing exceptional, since I've acted in the same way in the other files: strategic reserve, offshore degression, Doel 1 and 2, etc. I have therefore had to present our situation many times - which the Commission knows very well, moreover, since it also reads the newspaper. She knows very well that we are in day-to-day business and that this is not new. When the legislative framework was voted in April 2019, we met with the previous Commission. Now it's a new configuration, including new agents in the administrations. These people are right to ask us for in-depth information about the Belgian case. I have been in contact with the former Commission for several years. From now on, I am discussing with new interlocutors, to whom I obviously have to present the case in every detail. That's what I'm going to do. After March 25, I can tell you more and take stock with you. So this will be time T+2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u37	Minister, the Commission has new members. After the formation of the federal government, new officials will certainly take office. All this takes time. That is the conclusion I draw from your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u38	Yes, but it's true!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u39	I think it is necessary to make a clear statement about our ability to meet the deadline for our exit from nuclear power. You don't answer that. Will we be able to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u40	Look, I can't answer that question. You're asking me to give you a forecast. That's typical of this commission!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u41	To govern is to foresee, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u42	Listen, whatever your options may be, remember that Mr. Magnette, a member of your political party that held my post in 2009, signed the extension of Tihange 1, Doel 1 and 2 for twenty years. I therefore do not know how your group is apprehensive of the situation and its evolution, given the existence of nuclear power plants responsible for generating electricity in our country. Basically, I don't have to worry about it. Currently, I am part of a government, still in day-to-day business because the parties are unable to agree to form a full-function government. Also, I continue to work; I may very well do nothing and consider that, in everyday affairs, make radical choices like those that you push me to make for purely political reasons in your leadership,...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u43	Absolutely not, Madam Minister! I am not asking you what my political group thinks...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u44	I don't have to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u45	I ask you what you think about our ability to meet certain deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u46	I've said it in all letters for a long time! I think we need this mechanism and I will do everything in my power to finalize it in time. That's it! But time doesn't mean anything. You don't know what the weather is! These are forecasts. Everything's working...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u47	2025, it's in five years! I know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u48	... everything works in these subjects on the basis of forecasts. It is always easy to rigidize these forecasts by trying to draw guarantees from them in a political debate, where everyone tries to distinguish themselves. You think: not to decide is also to decide. Parliament is entirely in a position not to decide. You can very well express yourself politically by saying that "finally, it's no use. We prefer to extend nuclear power, patati, patata." It is not necessary to throw you on a government in day-to-day business by saying that "the government is not moving forward and, in doing so, it is precipitating things that we do not want, for example, the release of nuclear power, that it will later orchestrate in a coalition and we do not want them". Or you can say: "On the contrary, this government in day - to - day affairs is doing everything it can, but it will not. Anyway, for a simple reason, it's basically something else to do." You have the freedom to express yourself. But, excuse me, I have not yet seen any proposal from you in Parliament. You have the freedom to take on the issue of CRM funding. You have had lots of hearings to submit a bill that elects a funding system or option. There's nothing to stop you from doing it. I'd like to discuss it with you. I don't know what the problem is. But, in the meantime, I'm not going to turn my thumbs and I'm going to keep working. I hold a position, I have a responsibility, I express it and I act accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u49	Madam Minister, I would like to comment on the question of funding. You do not really say who will pay the invoice and you keep the three financing options open. For us, however, it is unacceptable if the cost of CRM comes on the energy bill of ordinary people. We will continue to follow that very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a lot of wise things already. In all honesty, the Minister had said from the beginning that she expected questions. The minister was waiting for the questions of the European Commission, this is not new. Minister, as far as funding is concerned, you say that a government that is not in full exercise cannot decide. The question is, of course, if we have the full authority over a dossier, whether we want to look at the whole dossier. I am following Mrs Dierick: if the European Commission postpones the matter and answers are followed by new questions and new deadlines, an initial auction will be compromised. If an initial auction is compromised, security of supply will also be compromised. Security of supply was one of the crucial conditions for the exit in 2025. We have not signed an unconditional exit; we have done so under specific conditions, one of which was security of supply. If the security of supply cannot be strengthened, then we must look at the dossier in its entirety. If Parliament, as Mrs van der Straeten rightly says, has full powers and wishes to discuss them, then it must be dared to look at the dossier in its entirety. Madam Minister, intelligence is not perfect, but it is the beginning of wisdom, as Mr Ben Accour has shown. Is there a willingness on the part of all the parties here in Parliament to talk about the CRM without taboos and the core step? I am talking about the CRM in the sense that the mechanism is interesting as a stick behind the door, which does not necessarily need to be used. On the contrary, is there a willingness on the part of the parties, including the PS, to talk again about the core exit, as we have done in the past? We used to do that in different ways. It is good to repeat history, but let us spend our time in the future. The question is therefore whether Parliament has the courage to do so, because the Minister cannot do so, given the limited possibilities available to it. I realize you'd like to do that, Madam Secretary. Anyway, this is an accident waiting to happen. We're moving towards the abyss. Time limits are in place. I believe that Mr Ben Achor has spoken very clear and clear language. Are we prepared to bear the consequences of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u51	I think we have already done this with Parliament, witnessing the hearings before the summer recess. The first meeting of our committee was devoted to explaining Elijah's adequacy study and the response of the CREG. So that is an open door, and we have already had that discussion in Parliament. Moreover, the decision of the first hearing was just that the committee wanted to be involved in the work on the CRM in the widest possible sense. I don't see the problem. I think you're looking for a political issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u52	I'll tell you what the problem is. Which of the parties around the table is prepared to say, when it comes to the financing of the CRM, how is it going to be financed, in accordance with European rules? It can of course be said that people should not pay, that Saint Nicholas might pay it, or the rich. I do not know how the latter is defined. Which of the parties around the table is prepared to hold that discussion and put proposals on the table, as the Minister said? Which of the parties is prepared to open the books here and tell us how to proceed? Furthermore, Mrs van der Straeten, the core exit was approved subject to security of supply. One of my party's many presidents-designate has put it under these conditions. We will therefore not implement any measures which, in retrospect, jeopardise our country's security of supply. Those two issues need to be made clear. That's not a political game, that's just asking for clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u53	It is clear that the issue of financing has been over our heads for a long time, even when you still had your full powers. At that time, there were also discussions on funding. It was proposed that the elections should be held very shortly and therefore no longer be decided, even though the government had the full power at that time, in 2018. In the first texts on the CRM, which I have here, there are several options in terms of funding, which would be chosen, i.e. in the CRM Act itself. It was then decided to delete the relevant provisions and transfer them to KB's, after which the next government would have fun. All the parties here say that the CRM should be there, but that their voters do not pay for it. That's what I belong to everyone here. To be honest, we live in a fantasy world, an air castle, in which we have to pay, but not by us. That is, of course, easy; only that way we will not get out. If we do not agree on the CRM invoice, should we not, first of all, make sure that the invoice becomes much smaller or perhaps even disappears altogether? I think that is a crucial question. Mr President, you are absolutely right in this respect, and we cannot look at these matters separately. It is not possible to make a decision on funding and then say that the CRM should be there anyway. Those two are connected and perhaps one should look at other options. I've been making that plea for a long time. A few years ago Mr Di Rupo asked me which planet the N-VA lives on. We haven't been alone there for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u54	Mr President, to answer your questions, we are all elected members of the house, so am I. My group has supported the CRM. If you are asking if we are prepared to think through, I can say that my answer is, of course, yes. We do not have to wait for a government of which our party is or is not part, and only then will we start to think about it. It is a matter of responsibility to examine all the traces of thought. The core exit law consists of the articles, as you mentioned. The security of supply is part of this. That law came under purple-green, with a green secretary of state. I'm not gonna close my eyes to that. I ask you not to look for nails on low tide and to organise the debate in our committee in an objective and factual manner, and indeed we must look at all the elements. We have already started this work and can continue to do so. I expect, of course, that all the elements will be available to us. I would remind you that the hearing with the follow-up committee was here for an hour and a half and that the representative of the FPS Economy suddenly said that they had already sent the notification file that afternoon. We have asked the Minister through you to have the documents. That happened on the basis of a letter signed by almost everyone here. Mr President, we did not get it. If your question is whether the parties here are prepared to discuss on the substance of the crucial issues in the dossier, then my answer is yes, but with full information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u55	Madam Minister, I would like to be perfectly clear. There's no political game in my head. There is no will to push you to blame or to put you in trouble. There's just the concern to know what play you play in. Are we once again able to meet the deadlines that we have imposed ourselves? It's my only concern. Since I am also concerned about respect for the meaning of the truth, I would like to point out that Mr Magnette extended Tihange 1 by ten years. That's all he did. You were talking about twenty years ago. But it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u56	Wait. It was not him who extended Tihange 1 in the government of Elio Di Rupo, but in 2009 he signed a document called Pax electrica with the company. I'll show it to you so you can see exactly what's going on. It was agreed on both sides that there would be a nuclear rent, thus extra-fiscality, given the over-benefit of Electrobel, and that the plants I mentioned would be extended by twenty years. Finally, this was not the case. The subsequent decisions reduced this 20-year period to 10 years, which obviously led to tensions between the two sides. I'll show you, and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u57	Mr President, if I may, I would like to conclude. It doesn't matter what the past is. The important thing is to find solutions. One of the biggest problems we have right now is the issue of funding. Come to committee, and the committee will find ways of resolving this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u58	It's not up to me to provide you with this. I'm trying to make you understand that I'm continuing my work. You're legitimately questioning me about my work. I am willing to come back very regularly to give you the status. Things are clear. You know what I think and what I want. If you have proposals for legislation on funding – and I remind you that all this must always be in line with European guidelines – I am ready to discuss this with you. But I am very busy, and I am not, of course, going to start working with Parliament by bringing the whole matter to a decision or another later. We're in business. You have the full capacity, with the hearings and all the documents at your disposal, to make bills. Take it! I did it during a period of routine business at one time and it became Ghislenghien law. I did not ask the government or the functional minister to give me everything. I drew them up myself and then, together with my colleagues in Parliament, we found a majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u59	In any case, I note from the intervention of most of my colleagues that Parliament is reaching out to you to find solutions and speed up the process, so that the objectives can be met. I hear that this outstretched hand is not being seized for the moment, but I'm sure it will change.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u60	A common thread throughout your speech is clarity, the groups need to create clarity. However, there is already some degree of clarity. Who did not adopt the CRM Framework Act in April? We are pretending that this law has been passed unanimously, but that was not the case. After all, there were two groups that voted against for a number of good reasons. The lack of clarity about funding was a very important element of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that, if there is no government with full authority, we can only find a solution in Parliament if we are prepared to look for majorities. We need 76 votes in order for something to be approved by Parliament. That's a clear logic. If majorities are to be sought, people must also be prepared to let go of certain taboos. The parties who opposed the CRM at the time may now say that it can be done under certain conditions, if there is financial clarity, provided that it is linked to something else. That's what I'm keeping in mind. Mrs van der Straeten is right to say that Parliament must have all the information it needs to discuss this. If this decision is taken by Parliament, we will also ask the Minister to provide us with this information. That's obvious. Everyone has their role and must be able to play it. We must also be able to do so with the necessary expertise, which cannot be expected from an individual Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-03-55-commissie-ic122x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we close this interesting debate now. We're wondering if there's gonna be any of that. There are many other questions on the agenda. The minister asked to be able to post the questions because she has other obligations. The Minister has other obligations at the moment, so I would suggest that we postpone these questions to another meeting, because we do not have such a busy agenda in the coming weeks. The cabinet proposes to do so on Tuesday 24 March.
