ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the rules of a topical debate, and groups that have not tabled a question can still join either in the round of questions or during the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u2	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did indeed put a question last week about the strike commitment. Right now, we're on that 48-hour strike. Since the beginning of this week physical contact has been possible again in prisons. The unions reacted rather anxiously to this, not surprisingly. According to them, the risk is too great to remove the plastic screens in the visitors' rooms, for example. Minister, has social dialogue already started? I read somewhere that a meeting is scheduled on Thursday, but I don't know exactly what level that is at. Are you willing to reverse any relaxations if necessary? What is the current situation of prisoners in prisons? What is the connection to today's decisions of the National Security Council? Will additional measures be taken within the prison walls to minimise the risk of contamination? In addition, what about the minimum service? Can everything be kept running in the penitentiary facilities at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u3	Mr Thiébaut is not yet here, and we will see if he can be present in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question is similar to that of Mr Gabriels. First there was the promise, now there's the strike. And all because from this week on, physical contact between prisoners and visitors is possible. A counter-proposal was also made that a prisoner should be quarantined for 14 days after a visit. However, the unions would not have agreed to this either. Mr President-in-Office, why, apparently against the will of the staff, are we proceeding with the relaxation of the visitation arrangements? Is there perhaps an increase in aggression or dissatisfaction within the prison walls since the intimate visits are no longer possible? Are the trade unions themselves making alternative proposals for relaxations that are acceptable to them? After all, it is not illogical for visitors to be allowed there as well. Trade unions may have to offer alternatives. The new visit would normally take place on 21 September. Have there been any undisturbed visits? With regard to the strike commitment and the minimum service, was the procedure correctly followed by all trade unions? Were the necessary deadlines respected? What is today, because the strike is going on, the state of affairs within the prison walls?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u5	Madam President, Minister, prisons have suffered the crisis of full whip coronavirus. Like all communities, they are at high risk. It was necessary to adapt and reorganize the entire prison operation, try to limit contacts in overcrowded institutions, ensure the presence of sufficient staff despite the sick and the quarantine, while they are already structurally understaffed. Most of the officers gave the best of themselves to ensure their work, even at the peak of the epidemic, and then to allow some definity in the prisons. Today, however, the unilateral easing measures taken by the Minister of Justice and the Directorate General of Prisons pose a danger to both inmates and officers. This is why the trade union organisations have launched a strike notice. This is also why a large number of workers support the strike movement on Tuesday 22 and Wednesday 23 September. Minister, why didn't you seriously listen to the actors on the ground during the social dialogue? Is it not possible to define realistic and applicable solutions in the field, especially given the concerns expressed by the head of some school directors? Workers want more details on how to apply some of your unrealistic solutions. For example, how will you manage the quarantine of inmates after intimate visits when there is a lack of cells available for this purpose in many institutions? On the other hand, we have learned that the number of inmates in care at Bruges prison has increased sharply. Can you give the evolution figures for the last three weeks? From the point of view of timing, why relax health measures in prisons now, while the number of contaminations is increasing sharply in society and virologists are sounding alarms? A new consultation with trade union organisations is planned on 1 October. Are you prepared to review the rules governing visits in the light of returns from the ground and the evolution of the figures? In De Afspraak, you defended the continued wearing of the mask in schools, especially because of the dangers of spreading the epidemic. Why don't you have the same caution when it comes to prisons? Today, in some prisons, there may be 13 out of 36 officers absent due to illness and quarantine. How do you intend to do it if it increases again? Will the staff of the ministerial office go to the field to operate the prisons? Minister, what lessons have been learned from dealing with the epidemic in prisons during the first wave? What is the plan for a second wave? What procedures differ from those followed in the first wave? What is envisaged in terms of individual protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u6	Madam President, Minister, we have already heard the introductory story here and I shall now turn to my questions. Is it true that, in spite of what the staff actually asked, the visitation arrangements were changed without taking into account their comments? How many prisoners will use this relaxation? Are the staff who will come into contact with the detainees who use the facilitation additional protection? Is there any new consultation with the union planned? Are there any new proposals on the table that can ensure that the situation is resolved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the consultation under the strike commitment started last Wednesday at 13.00 and was followed by an electronic follow-up on Monday 21 September. The Directorate-General of the prison system and my cabinet employee have listened in detail to the arguments and comments of the trade unions. On Wednesday some proposals were made by the Director-General of the prison system to further reduce the risk of contagion, but Friday morning the unions reported that the staff were not in agreement with these proposals. The government then decided to maintain the existing directives and further consider what could be done. New proposals were made on Monday, but these were not accepted either. A strike was inevitable. I understand that it is difficult to carry out relaxations when the figures are not so favourable, but, as in the free society, there is also the awareness within the prison system that it is not just a matter of prevention of infections, but also of social well-being for imprisoned citizens and their families. These relaxations were necessary because all physical contacts have been banned in prisons for more than six months. Many of you are not so young and I am surprised that people find it so obvious that all physical contacts are forbidden in prisons. These relaxations of the visitor arrangements were submitted for advice to Sciensano, who has proposed adjustments here and there. The prison prevention adviser also gave his opinion. Both opinions were followed. The access procedure and the criteria to be met by visitors are the same as for a regular unsupervised visit. Furthermore, the existing corona measures continue to apply, namely wearing a mouth mask, disinfecting the hands, registering at reception, the possible temperature measurement, etc. A declaration of honour shall be completed in respect of the illness or otherwise which has occurred in the past 14 days or in respect of the return from a red zone. One should also undertake to inform the prison if one would become ill within two days of the visit. After each visit, the entire room is cleaned and aired to the maximum. Furniture and plumbing are disinfected and the linen set in the room of the undisturbed visit is completely changed. Inmates who make use of the relaxed visitation scheme are followed like any other prisoner. In addition, increased vigilance has been called for to detect the symptoms of COVID-19 in general and for those detained who benefit from unsupervised visits in particular. In addition, the social-distanting rules also apply to the detainees. While all prisoners, visitors and prison staff strictly follow the rules and sanitary and hygiene measures, the danger to prison officers is minimal. They face a greater risk of contamination in situations outside the prison. Mrs Bury, you asked how many prisoners already made use of the relaxation of the visitation arrangements. I have to tell you that due to the short period of time, it was not possible to obtain these figures. At the start of the crisis in March and the implementation of the strict security measures, there have been violent riots in some prisons. Since then, there have been few or no violent incidents related to the COVID-19 pandemic. I cannot therefore speak of a remarkable increase in aggression. The mooring, however, gets louder. On the other side of the prison wall there is also a protest against the lack of relaxation of the visitation regime, in particular with regard to the undisturbed visit by the prisoners' partners. Tomorrow, a new consultation is planned in order to evaluate the decisions of today's National Security Council, to examine whether there are repercussions for some prisons, and whether there is a need to adapt certain procedures. There is no guarantee that an agreement will be reached with the unions if they do not change their view of the situation. Trade unions are asking for a return to the visiting regime that was applicable until 14 September, i.e. without easing, but this is not acceptable. The trade unions did not make any counter-proposals for relaxation during the consultations. They have limited themselves to rejecting any further adjustment which would increase the risk of contamination even more. The new visit scheme started on Monday 14 September. A number of prisons have applied them from day one and allowed uninterrupted visits to take place without any problem. The trade unions electronically delivered the strike commitment on 11 September to the director of the prison system and to myself. They announced that a strike was possible from Tuesday 22 September at 6:00 a.m. This intention was confirmed on the night of Friday 18 September on Saturday 19 September, adding that the strike will end on 24 September at 06.00 hours. In this sense, the legislation on the procedure and deadlines was complied with. In order to be fully compliant, the strike commitment had to be signed. The trade unions were alerted to this during the consultations that followed. As regards compliance with the rules by the individual staff, who had to deliver the obligation to cease or cease their intention to the head of establishment, the evaluation has yet to be carried out in the following days. With regard to Mr Boukili's question concerning the occupation of the medical centre in Bruges, I can give the following figures. Since the pandemic, 58 inmates (out of 10,000) have been tested positive for VOCID-19. These detainees were hospitalized in the medical section of Bruges Prison. As of yesterday, 22 September, there were 18 prisoners who were ill and 2 who were cured but contagious. These figures include both sick prisoners with symptoms and asymptomatic patients. Yesterday there were virtually no real problems in prisons, even though the target for minimum service was not reached everywhere. Police were present in the following prisons: Bruges, Dendermonde, Ghent, Mechelen, Mons, Saint-Hubert, Sint-Gillis, Frost-Berkendael and Root. Today there are police in reinforcements in Ghent, Hasselt, Mechelen, Sint-Gillis and Vorst. A total of 41 policemen were deployed during the day, the last night 22. Tonight and today there is no police presence in the Walloon prisons. In general, it can be said that most prisons have provided the services that were planned. A global evaluation will be carried out after the strike. You know it's only a 48-hour strike and that the police's deployment will remain normal. It is only from the 49th hour that we can apply the real minimum service. The situation in prisons, with regard to the VOCID-19 pandemic, is closely monitored on a day-to-day basis. Where it appears that the current hygiene and safety rules no longer produce the desired effect, an immediate response shall be provided and further measures shall be taken. I am very happy, Mr Boukili, that you are looking at De Afspraak; it is true that I said that I would regret it if the rules for wearing masks in schools were to be repealed or removed, but like me, you know that children from the age of twelve years should not wear masks all the time. They only have to wear it in class. I believe that similar rules apply to inmates and prison officers. The wearing of the mask is necessary, for example, at the front or when you make movements and do not impose yourself in a cell, which is obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u8	Minister, I have received an answer to all the questions I have asked. It is indeed always a balance between guaranteeing a minimum level of social contact or else the consequences within the prison walls are also unlikely to be overseen and banning all physical contact for six months, which may not be sustainable. We must strike a balance between social contact on the one hand and the safety and health of everyone, such as the prisoners and the staff on the other. I can only hope that an agreement will be reached tomorrow. No relaxation at all may be untenable, but a compromise must be reached tomorrow, otherwise the extra pressure on the police force, which is already overloaded, will not be seen either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u9	Minister, it is precisely what Mr Gabriels says: it is a difficult balancing exercise. That is the case everywhere: in the WCs, but also in the prisons. Of course, a system must be sought to make visits more possible in a safe way. It is only a great pity that no agreement could be reached on this and that there was apparently no willingness to talk about possible counter-proposals. I regret that, and I hope that something will come out of the bus at tomorrow's next meeting, otherwise I fear that, if the situation remains the same as today and the visit is allowed, which I do understand, the guards' concerns will continue and we may have left for longer strikes, which will only increase the burden on our police forces. I can't wait to see what the discussions will bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u10	Madam Chair, Minister, I listened carefully to your answers. You first gave a general answer. Now, you know better than I do than every institution is different. Infrastructures are not identical and this cannot be addressed by a general theoretical response. Each institution must be taken with the means at its disposal, particularly in terms of infrastructure. On the other hand, I do not think that the unions are calling for a strike or that the prison officers are supporting this strike movement just for pleasure. I think they have good reasons. One of the reasons is, first of all, the lack of listening to your ministry, while, on the ground, some measures are unrealistic. Generally, trade unions are faced with fait accompli. That's what they're telling us. You say you are waiting for a relaxation of union demands, but are you ready to review some of your measures that do not correspond to the difficulties on the ground? In this case, what the unions and prison officers are denouncing here is in the interests of both the officers and the detainees. Care must be taken to avoid total confinement in prisons, if contamination increases alarmingly. The reason agents are challenging the decisions that are being made is because they want to avoid general contamination and much stricter measures than they are today. It is to avoid this that the agents react. As you always present a general picture, I, too, take up a general element. Today, there is a shortage of staff to manage prisons. There are 460 missing agents, not to mention diseases and quarantines. When is a real job plan to recruit prison officers? Even the function is no longer attractive. You're telling me no, but the numbers that come to us clearly indicate a lack of staff. You cannot say that the 6,800 prison officers required are now present in the field. However, this figure is not a reflection of reality. At some point, you have to take it into consideration and the least you can do is listen and listen to field officers when they tell you that your actions are unrealistic and not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u11	Minister, it is a pity that no agreement has been reached with the guards. These people already have such a high workload and it cannot be calculated or measured. The number of prisoners who want to make use of these facilitations is innumerable. It is also important that the staff remain healthy. Several virologists say that this is not the time for relaxation and they regret what has been decided at the Security Council. Nor is it the time to apply this in prisons. It's not the time to experiment there. The number of infections is far too high. Hopefully, Thursday will give a thorough thought to what will be decided there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u12	Indeed, it is not clear that the discussion is re-emerging when the curve is rising. We must be vigilant. On the other hand, it is not clear that prisoners have not had physical contact for six months. That weighs on someone. It is right that the demand for relaxation arises. We're gonna have to find a balance. I trust the Minister to look for that and guard it. I hope that the other side of the table will also be prepared to look for a healthy balance in the interests of both parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u13	Madam President, I would like to make a comment on the agenda. I arrived when the debate had already begun. I would like to record in the annals of our work a disagreement between me and the cabinet on the agenda. Indeed, I have tabled two questions: one last week and another this week concerning a public procurement for the two new prisons. My question last week was directed to the Committee on Mobility. It is true that the way I formulated my question could lead to confusion. It was a little abusive, but it wasn't a big deal. But my question this week was more about a political debate and it was also directed towards the Committee on Mobility. I did not react at that time thinking that it would be on the agenda. Neither last week nor this week (the minister, moreover, is the same, and that is precisely why it is difficult to accept) was and is not scheduled for a question-and-answer session. I wanted to point that out and make it known in the work of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u14	Thank you, Mrs Khattabi. We didn't know otherwise we could have settled that. I think that next week the minister will answer questions about the Régie. You can ask your questions at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u15	Mrs Khattabi, I believe that we will answer the question in the committee responsible, even if it is the same person. It will be in a completely different capacity that I will reply to you in the Committee on Mobility as the minister responsible for the Régie, if it suits you. It'll be next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u17	Mr Colebunders is not here. Mr Van Hecke is currently chairing the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda and has stated that he cannot leave immediately. Mr Segers is not here either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u18	Minister, twelve years after the banking crisis, former Fortis administrators will not be tried. The Chamber of Council decided on 4 September that the charges were prescribed. This coup de théâtre is the last of a long list since 2008. The Fortis case is one of the biggest judicial failures in the kingdom. The desire for profit and the lies of Maurice Lippens and the other leaders of Fortis cost the population billions, but they are not prosecuted, while a man who stole outdated muffins from a supermarket's trash cans is being chased. In an interview for De Afspraak, to the question "What would you say to the victims of Fortis?", You said this 9 September that, I quote, "in Belgium, we are trying to obtain reasonable justice at a reasonable cost. There are 2 billion budgets for justice as opposed to 50 billion for health." In view of the above, Minister, why is the decision of the Board more than four years after the completion of the investigation? How do you explain the slow pace of justice in this case? Was this not a priority? Did the prosecution let the case hang out? Are your comments tantamount to saying that society must accept that the limited budget of the judiciary leads to impunity as in the Fortis case? Don't you think that by letting the big fish run every time or letting them buy their case, the Belgian government is losing a lot of resources? What lessons do you learn from this judicial failure? Will you organise an audit to avoid the recurrence of such a breakdown in another case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u19	Madam President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u20	Minister, Mr Van Hecke could not be here because he is currently chairing another committee. However, he asked if you could give the answer to his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u21	Mr Boukili, it is really important that when you look at "De Afspraak", you listen to the answer in its entirety. Indeed, on the stage of this program, I explained precisely why, for my part, the Attorney General had not initiated a prosecution. I'm not going to repeat it today, I'm just relaying the answer he gave me, which is my duty. I took some freedom and explained myself about it. I admit that Belgium's willingness to propose the best justice at a reasonable cost and the best health at a very high cost is extremely frustrating for a Minister of Justice. All members of the Committee on Justice should share this frustration, and it is only this frustration that I have expressed. I, too, want the best health, but also the best justice. Sometimes telling the truth hurts, but it is a necessary evil. Mijnheer Van Hecke, mijnheer Segers, mijnheer Boukili, uw vragen werden voorgegd aan de public prosecutor-general van Brussel en deze meldt mij het volgende: "The Fortis case was managed without delay given the complexity of the case, the procedure before the courts relating to the investigation, the execution of the complementary investigative duties and the strategic choices made. In view of the uncertain outcome for the judge of the facts and the number of injured parties, the prosecution has indeed decided to give preference to the slope of compensation for the victims. The negotiation of the bourgeois transaction, which was very complex and the most important ever concluded in the Netherlands, took quite a long time. At the same time, the court could not initiate criminal proceedings without endangering the completion of this transaction. The statute of limitations was therefore reached because the Public Prosecutor's Office preferred to ensure that thousands of damages were compensated, without having to wait for years for the random outcome of lengthy and costly judicial proceedings." Finally, it is necessary, on the one hand, to simplify criminal proceedings considerably so that criminal investigations can be carried out more quickly and efficiently, and that is why there is a Code of Criminal Procedure in place, and that is why the main court can be taken more quickly. I refer you to the proposals contained in this draft new Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u22	I do not wish to add anything else. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u23	Minister, when you ask for additional funding for justice, you know very well that on this ground you will find me at your side. I have intervened sufficiently in this committee to advocate for a greater investment in justice, because it needs it. However, there is also a logical aspect to this question of means. Our justice saves the powerful. It is not for nothing that our legislation includes, for example, the expanded criminal transaction through which they can buy their trial. In this case, we are talking about a case that has cost taxpayers billions and whose officials are known, on fairly clear counts. However, the file is prescribed. They will not even be tried and will not go to court. This is outrageous, Minister! If we want the people to trust justice, it is not in this way that they will get it. This case should have attracted the attention of the Department of Justice as a whole. It had to be a priority because it cost taxpayers billions of euros – and we continue to pay. But the culprits remain unpunished. Is that the justice we want for our society? That's not my wish. I agree with you to refinance justice by giving it greater means through massive investments so that it can do its job. On the other hand, I refuse to grant to the powerful the possibility of not being tried for crimes which are recognized by law and which affect society considerably. If we want to gain public confidence in justice, we must do exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u24	Minister, it has been quieter for a while, but in recent weeks Antwerp has been shocked again by a number of nightly explosions of grenades and shootings, incidents that can be linked to the drugs world. To act against this, the Stroomplan was launched in February 2018. More than two years later, it is clear that the battle has not yet been fought and will even need to be intensified. The Antwerp mayor and the Antwerp police have now started Operation Night Watch. They will be extra present at night in the problem neighborhoods. They are also well equipped to deal with who would be aggressive within that drug environment. As far as law enforcement is concerned, steps are certainly being taken forward, but there is still a need for judicial capacity and follow-up. According to the Stroomplan, the Antwerp Arrondissement would be competent for the entire port. Unfortunately, there wasn't much of that in the house. A specialized team of the Antwerp parquet would be exclusively authorized for port crime. Additional capacity would also be released for this purpose. In practice, a number of magistrates of Antwerp were also competent in East Flanders and vice versa. Of course, that is not an additional capacity, because they obviously have to carry out their normal tasks and are not only engaged in port-related crime. In the area of justice, unfortunately, the Streamplan remains rather dead letter. This is one of the painful consequences of a failing workload measurement. That's still a pain. On the basis of this workload measurement, the number of magistrates in the district would be determined effectively on the basis of the effective needs. So we're far from there. Are you planning additional capacity in the magistrate to provide for the judicial follow-up of the fight against drug crime in Antwerp and beyond? If so, when and how much? If not, will you allow the situation to continue? Do you consider the capacity of the federal judicial police for Antwerp sufficient? If not, will you provide reinforcements? Do you have an insight into the current state of the workload measurement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u25	Mr Van Hecke is present in the meantime. Perhaps you could ask your two questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u26	Minister, the drug violence in Antwerp has escalated over the last few weeks. With the so-called Operation Night Watch, parts of Antwerp appear to be transformed into almost war zone. However, it will be awaiting the results of the operation. According to the mayor of Antwerp, there is also a lack of judicial follow-up to anti-drug actions. He is joined by the Attorney General, Franky De Keyzer, who claims that the legal framework simply does not suffice to follow all the files. The framework consists of 98 functions, but according to Attorney De Keyzer, at least 130 people are needed. In addition, there would also be insufficient staff in the federal judicial police. I have the following questions, Minister. Do you agree that there is a lack of judicial follow-up to the anti-drug actions? Why is that? Why is that? Do you agree with what Attorney De Keyzer says, in particular that the legal framework does not meet and that he actually needs 30% more staff? If so, would you like to raise the legal framework? What steps do you want to take and by when? If not, why not? Do you agree with the statement that the federal judicial police do not have enough staff in Antwerp? This morning, we read in the newspaper that the FGP Antwerp 139 detectives are lacking. One-fourth of the sites would not have been filled out and that they are working with 44 investigators on 154 ongoing drug files. Would you like to raise the frame? Is that necessary? What steps could you take and against when? If you don't agree with the prosecutor's statement, why not? Finally, what steps do you intend to take to combat the violence against drugs in Antwerp? What steps have you taken over the past few years, and in your opinion was that sufficient? I also have a question about the role of state security in this context. One of the key tasks of State Security is to act against criminal organisations. This is laid down in the legal order as defined in Articles 7 and 8 of the Law of 30 November 1998. This seems to be particularly true in the case of drug violence in Antwerp. The security of the State could therefore also play a role there, but the security of the State has taken over a further question about the state a little bit back on a number of phenomena and is no longer so active as to follow up on all the phenomena which it should follow under the law. I have the following questions for you, Minister. To what extent has the State Security in recent years devoted itself to monitoring criminal organisations? Is State Security following this phenomenon? If so, which environments or organisations has the State's safety focused on in recent years? If not, why not? Will the State's Security follow the criminal organisations associated with drug violence, including in Antwerp? If so, is there cooperation between the State's security and the other services involved in this? If not, why not? Would you like to see if that can still happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u27	Madam President, Minister, since my questions are also about the capacity of the judiciary and the judicial district of Antwerp and since the questions about prosecutor De Keyzer have already been asked by Mr Van Hecke, I will refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I have asked you a few questions here in committee about the violence against drugs in Antwerp. You can be sure that I ask these questions locally in the city council. The day before yesterday, there was a thematic committee on the issue in the city council of Antwerp. The speakers, including the prosecutor, the federal judicial police and also the police themselves, were generally very positive about the cooperation and the results. Of course, a number of improvements had to be made here and there. It's necessary. We note, after all, that violence is now rekindling after a number of attacks, which, I fear, could sooner or later also have innocent victims. We saw, for example, how only a few weeks ago an innocent toddler was able to escape when a bullet rain burst. Minister, the approach to drugs requires a transversal approach and a 360 degree approach, in which different services work together, such as the police, the federal judicial police and customs. This approach must be applied at all levels, from the local level, where the mayor himself is responsible for the deployment of his police services, to the federal level and to the international level. At the latter level, many steps have also been taken in the context of international cooperation with a number of countries, including charters. Minister, the so-called Power Plan was launched in 2018 to unfold cooperation. As I have already said, this plan is being welcomed very positively. However, an evaluation of the Stroomplan was carried out by Ghent University in December 2019. The academics who have examined the plan have included a number of proposals on this subject in their report. My questions are as follows. How was the academic evaluation of the Stroomplan? Did you consult with the academics? What recommendations from their evaluation report do you consider useful, to be considered or to be examined? Have you been able to implement a number of recommendations, although I know that this is not evident at present? What changes or proposals should be made to make the fight against drug violence more effective? That's really necessary. What matters do you think the next government should continue to work on? This is, of course, something for a new government. In current cases, it is not possible to unfold many new plans, although we would all like to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u29	Thank you, Mr Van Hecke, Mrs De Wit, Mrs Gabriels and Mrs Lanjri. Let me first say that on Wednesday 16 September 2020 I sat together with the top of the Antwerp parquet and of the Antwerp judicial police, but also with the people on the site who carry out the operation Power Plan within the Antwerp parquet and within the federal judicial police. That wasn't the first time. There was great enthusiasm about the quality of the cooperation in Antwerp. The Supreme Court questioned the historical legal frameworks in 2017. I've been doing that the whole time. They do not reflect current personnel needs per court or parquet. I have always advocated a dynamic and objective allocation model for the distribution of funds between courts and courts, based on a well-developed workload measurement. I once reached an agreement with the seat on this, not with the court. The agreement with the seat was terminated after the fall of the Michel government because of Marrakech. The framework of the Antwerp parquet has been completed today at 94 %. With the current vacancies and the known movers one would reach 96% within six months. The drug follow-up chamber focuses on drug addicts who sell small-scale drugs to provide for their drug addiction and tries to find a solution to the addiction. The Operation Night Watch focuses on drug sales in organized contexts. These files come for the single correction chamber and for the larger files for a collegiate chamber, each of which is eight times a month. As regards the capacity of the federal judicial police in Antwerp pending the completion of the vacancies, the FGP Antwerp received ten detectives last autumn in strengthening other FGPs through temporary secondments. These are transfers from one FGP to another. FGP Antwerp is still a priority. 82 vacancies have been opened since September 2019. The implementation of this is, of course, dependent on finding suitable candidates. We are making every effort to further fill that framework. As far as the role of State Security is concerned, Mr Van Hecke, he has the task of following up the threat of and by criminal organisations, and she is doing this as best she can within the priorities set. Topics such as terrorism, extremism, espionage and proliferation require considerable energy and resources. But that doesn't mean that other assignments aren't being carried out. They are carried out with a different intensity and in a more reactive manner. This also applies to organised drug crime. If the investigation shows links with organised crime, this is reported to the police forces concerned to act reactively, but also to prevent criminal organisations from infiltrating the public administration and thus undermining the structures of the rule of law. Finally, as regards the questions relating to the evaluation of the Power Plan, I would like to refer to the answers I gave on this subject at the plenary sessions of 19 December 2019 and 6 February 2020. My policy cell has already had the opportunity to exchange views with the evaluators/professors and actors in the field of Justice and Police and to examine what elements can be improved. As I said, on 16 September I myself had another meeting with the public prosecutor and the representatives of the judicial police in Antwerp on the concrete problems and the challenges facing our law enforcement services. I believe that the needs are not only in terms of staffing and resource capacity, but also in strengthening cooperation between administrative and judicial actors through memorandums or understanding, which already exist, in the exchange of information between public authorities, the courts, the police and the tax authorities and the private actors, etc. We've appointed port attorneys. That is of course only useful for the parquet from East Flanders, not yet for the seat. Several proposals still need to be examined, not only strategically and tactically, but also with regard to certain legislative initiatives. If one ever wants to change the legal area of Antwerp and take the Linkeroever along, I fear that the Constitution will have to be changed before its seat, but of course it will all be possible in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u30	Madam President, Minister, we will amend the Constitution immediately and then all crime in our country will be resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u31	No, but if East Flanders Antwerp comes to the aid. You can't argue with that, can you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u32	You will certainly need the East Flemings. That's absolutely true. But beware, because the Antwerp people always want to take a piece of East Flanders, being the port. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Actually, the essence of the question is whether the police and the justice system can handle that phenomenon today. When one sees how this has evolved in recent months, one sometimes gets the impression that our police and the judiciary are not getting a grip on it. Of course, we do not know what is happening behind the scenes, how files are being built, what traces they have, but that is the impression we get. I have the impression that, in its entirety, the Belgian Justice does not succeed in dealing with complex, large dossiers. Then it's not just about major criminal files like this, but we've just been talking about the Fortis case. We know how difficult it is to bring major tax matters to a successful conclusion. My concern is that our country is no longer able to tackle such phenomena vigorously. You say ten detectives joined the FGP. That's a drop on a hot plate. Better ten than nothing, but if one sees that one misses a fourth, 130 people, within the framework, then ten employees are a drop on a hot plate. One is going to try to fill a well by digging a well somewhere else, because those ten people come from somewhere else where they cannot be used. So this is a temporary solution and absolutely not a structural one. About the security of the state, you answer very diplomatically. We do not know whether we are really following up the criminal organisations there and, more specifically, the criminal organisations that are active in the Antwerp area in drug punishment. Your answer didn't tell you that. I merely note that the security of the State, which is an evolution of the last few months and since the terrorist attacks, is no longer carrying out and fulfilling some of its tasks as it should be. We note that with the phenomena of criminal organisations, but we will see that in the follow-up of the sects. There's a lot of work to be done in the next few years, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. A few open doors are being kicked in. The fact that the frameworks today do not reflect the real need is not new. It's been a long time. It is a pity that there is still no solution to this. Fortunately, there is good cooperation on the ground. I know that there is good cooperation with the police, the Justice Department and even with the city, but we need the capacity. There is a shortage of resources, not only of infrastructure, but also of staff. It is important that the staff be deployed where it is most needed. I feel that this is not happening enough here, with all the consequences for the city and its surroundings. I'm sure we'll follow up on this. I think a number of clear priorities need to be set. The Power Plan is already two years old. The evaluation took place in December 2019 until February 2020. It's been a while. It is high time to look at this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u34	Minister, I note that people are being sought at all levels and vacancies are not being filled at all levels. This is not only the case with the federal or judicial police, but also at the local level and with the magistrate, and not only in Antwerp but also in East Flanders and other provinces.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u35	Minister, I note that you are doing what is necessary and are consulting with all those involved. That's important. You are also prepared to further examine a number of proposals that have been launched. We have also heard that a number of proposals were launched through the so-called working paper. I'm glad you're looking into that further. You say you're going to bet on more staff. This staffing effort is needed, but, of course, there must also be enhanced cooperation. I believe that cooperation is particularly important. This cooperation has already produced very good results. This year alone, 55 tonnes of cocaine were seized with a street value of more than EUR 5 billion. That's not nothing. If I take into account what was said in the city council, the cooperation is going well. There are still some points of improvement. I also received very positive feedback from the Attorney General on the cooperation. The Power Plan works well, it is unique, but steps can still be taken in that direction. Minister, I hope that you will be able to continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u36	Minister, I have just mentioned it, and I have already questioned you in the past about the succession of sects by the State's Security. You then stated that the Security of the State no longer actually succeeds the sects, although it is part of the mission of the State's Security and is also explicitly mentioned in the law. The Security of the State would only treat the sects reactive. In a recent article by RTBf, early September of this year, the lack of control was again sued. Even more, when criminal acts occur in the context of a cult, it turns out to be very difficult to prosecute. For example, a former Commissioner at the FGP, who specialised in the sects, complains that many magistrates refuse to commit themselves to dealing with sects for the sake of religious freedom. That's a new element. Financial exploitation or sexual abuse is thus too easily unpunished in the context of sects. I come to my questions. Firstly, do you consider it necessary that the sects in our country should be better followed? If so, what steps do you intend to take? If not, why not? Secondly, the security of the State is legally obliged to follow the sects. Yet it doesn't happen or hardly does it. Would you like to change that? It's still a legal assignment. If so, how and by when? If not, why not? Thirdly, abuse within the sects would be very difficult to prosecute. According to the FGP Commissioner's statement, magistrates would be reluctant to investigate such abuse with a view to freedom of religion. Victims stay in the cold like this. Do you think it is right that religious freedom should be called into consideration in this context? If so, why? How can victims be prevented from standing in the cold? If not, what are you going to do about this? What steps do you want to take and by when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u37	Madam President, I will be very brief because my colleague, Stefaan Van Hecke, said the essentials. In addition to the questions I have already asked in July, which have been raised by my colleague, I have been very much questioned by this new element, which seems to be a real psychological barrier for judges. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to hear from you on this point. Do you think it is entirely appropriate to refer to religious freedom in the context of sectarian organizations? How can this concept be worked out with the judges? How, if any, can they be freed from a narrow reading which probably does not allow them to measure the phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not say that state security does not succeed the sects, but that priorities must be set. Consequently, the phenomenon is more reactively monitored. It is clear that neither the government nor the security of the State can decide that the latter will cease to fulfil a legal mandate. Mr Van Hecke, in July you yourself indicated that there might be a need for a debate on the legislative framework. It is up to the next government to propose a complete solution if it so wishes. In the light of recent information, I have asked the Security of the State to analyse the situation in consultation with the IACSSO in order to see if the evolution of the threat posed by the sects necessitates a review of the priorities. It goes without saying that the priorities are evolutionary in nature and should be able to be changed if the situation so requires. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, I would point out that sectarian activity and organisation, however disturbing they may be, are not, as such, criminal offences. But they can lead to offences, for example, when there is abuse of the person's position of vulnerability. A circular from the College of Public Prosecutors has also been used to encode the fact that a criminal offence is related to a sectarian phenomenon in the public prosecutor's database. Freedom of worship does not, of course, justify crossing the red line of the criminal offence and does not prevent criminal prosecution. It is the responsibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigating judge to carry out this examination in individual cases, but it is also clear that the demarcation line is difficult to define in concrete cases. It is inevitable that situations arise in which the magistrate decides that there is no need to prosecute because there is no criminal offence, even if the facts are morally disturbing. I forwarded the question to the Attorney-General's Office, which informed me that "we do not have any indication that judges, because of religious freedom, would not be willing to investigate abuses within sects". As regards the functioning of the administrative unit, it must be noted that it has not met for a long time. I have contacted the president of this cell about this and he has confirmed to me that his work will resume in October.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u39	Minister, I understand that it is a matter of priorities, but it is not because certain threats have to give greater priority to certain phenomena that others no longer or almost no longer need to be followed. That was de facto the case here. It is probably a decision of the National Security Council not to regard the succession of sects as a priority. I regret that. We will indeed have to have a debate on it. Either we believe that the State's security must continue and remains so in the law. Then that's what they have to do. If we believe that this is no longer the responsibility of the State's security, then someone else must take care of it. If it is no longer a priority for one and there is no alternative, we may be faced with a number of tragedies in a few years' time. Then we'll wonder why those sects weren't followed like they were supposed to five or ten years ago. This follow-up came about twenty years ago after a parliamentary committee of inquiry because there were real problems with a number of sectarian organisations in Belgium at the time. The IACSO was also the result of this. They do good work and are supported by the FPS Justice Department. Their work is to compile files and bundle complaints. It is very frustrating for them that almost nothing else happens with the information they pass on to the State Security. Let's definitely think about how we can put this back on track. You will always find a partner in us for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u40	Minister, I am pleased to see that, thanks to this week's question, I finally have answers to my July question. You confirm that there has been no meeting of the administrative unit since 2015. But I also hear she's planning to. For the rest, the most important thing has been said by my colleague. You had already told me in July that this was not a priority, but that it could evolve. I am pleased to hear that an assessment will be made. As Mr Van Hecke said, it is not because it is not a priority that nothing should be done. That is what we are seeing, particularly in the absence of a meeting since 2015. Rather, I want to look to the future. I look forward with great interest to the rest of the events. I will not fail to question the next person responsible for this matter. Perhaps, on the basis of the answers that will be given, we will really have to think collectively about a national plan that we could set up around sects and these drifts, because we know that some consequences involve different competences and levels of responsibility. Thank you for the answers you gave me this time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u41	Madam President, Minister, in June it appeared that the Belgian Competition Authority was investigating possible abuses in the private security sector. There would have been anti-competitive agreements since 2008. Meanwhile, it appears that the US Department of Justice is also investigating abuses in the Belgian surveillance sector. It doesn't happen that often. This apparently also has far-reaching consequences for persons who may be the subject of the investigation. Moreover, the Brussels parquet would also work on the file. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you confirm that the Brussels Office is conducting an investigation? If so, what is the focus of the research? What's the progress? Secondly, in recent years, has the Justice Department signed contracts with private security firms? If so, with which companies, for what purpose, and for what amounts on an annual basis? How many buildings in the Justice Department are guarded by private firms? We all know that they are often present in courthouses. So there is definitely a presence of private security firms within the justice buildings. Does the criminal investigation also cover the award of contracts to the Justice Department? Or isn't that the case? Thirdly, are there any new calls for tender for private security company within the FPS Justice Department at the moment? If so, which ones and would you like to suspend these tenders for as long as the investigation is ongoing? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u42	Mr Van Hecke, on your first question, the Attorney General of Brussels says: 'I can tell you that neither Brussels nor the federal prosecutor is involved in this matter'. G4S confirms that there is indeed an investigation under way, but none of the agreements concluded between FPS Justice and G4S are the subject of this investigation. In recent years, the Justice Department has concluded a limited number of contracts with G4S. In particular, a private surveillance company for the best-affining of the scanners was called up for three courthouses in Brussels. For one of these buildings there is also a static surveillance during the night. In addition, the scan streets of four other courthouses in Flanders and Wallonia are also manned by a private company. For these transfer orders, G4S is the contractor. It concerns two contracts for these seven buildings for a total annual amount of 2,410,000 euros, including VAT. In addition, as recently awarded, the contract for the support services was awarded: the facility management and the establishment of the former NATO site for the organisation of the assistance process for the attacks of 22 March 2016. There's a hatch guard in here. G4S is the contractor, as part of the consortium that was appointed for this purpose. The total value of this monitoring command depends on the duration of this process, the length, the number of session days and so on. For this reason, the cost of this contract is an estimate that is budgeted at 9,734,000 euros, VAT included. Furthermore, no new public procurement is under way. The Directorate-General for Judicial Organisation within the FPS Justice, which is responsible, inter alia, for managing the buildings of the courts, does not have any information indicating that a criminal investigation relates to the contracts they conclude. I believe G4S is also involved in two transition houses, namely the transition house in Mechelen and the transition house in Edingen. I do not have any figures here. However, I believe that it is about EUR 900 000 per year in Edingen, but I reserve the right to inform you more precisely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your information. Only the answer to the first question was not entirely clear to me. When I asked whether the Belgian court had also opened an investigation, you said no, but then you said that there is no evidence that there is an investigation into contracts within the Justice Department. As a result, I got the impression that there might be investigations into other contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u44	I'll read it to you. I can tell you that neither Brussels nor the federal court is involved in this matter. I conclude from this that criminal law is not at issue, at least at the moment. That's how I read it, but that's my interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u45	We do sometimes have to interpret something. In any case, the message is that we must be concerned when we hear what is going on and what investigations are being conducted by the Competition Authority. It may well be that many governments in this country, but also private companies, have paid far too much for these monitoring orders for years, if it turns out that effective agreements have been made. It is very important to keep a close eye on this when the government has to conclude new contracts in the coming weeks and months. One must be very vigilant. We have been alerted by companies operating in Belgium and the Netherlands who have seen the price difference for similar assignments. That's how the ball started rolling. I hope that there will be sufficient vigilance within the Justice Department, but also within the Defence Department and all the other departments so that people do not pay too much. It's already very expensive contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u46	I would also like to ask whether you are so outraged, Minister, that you will also request an investigation by the Supreme Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u47	Mr Segers, I was on the phone on an urgent matter, but I assume your question relates to the Essex case. I quote from the letter I received from the Attorney General of Brussels: 'After consulting the Prosecutor of the King in Brussels, I have the honour to inform you that we refer to our earlier reports in this case which answer the questions asked. With full respect for the opinion of the Member of Parliament, we do not consider it appropriate to continue the discussion, given the conclusions that we cannot endorse." As regards your question concerning the Dutch report of missing persons to their OAT service, the federal police replied to me that it falls within the jurisdiction of the Dutch authorities. Moreover, on the basis of the various contacts that have taken place after crossing the Belgian-Dutch border with the Dutch police, the Federal Police informed me that the Belgian Federal Police responded in good time. As regards your questions addressed to the Voogdij Department, I can give you the following figures. In 2018, the Voogdij Service received 25 reports from Vietnamese youth, all boys, sixteen of whom were received in an Observation and Orientation Centre (OOC) or a center for victims of trafficking in human beings. In seven cases the disappearance was reported to the Voogdij Department. In 2019 there were fifty applications to the Voogdij Service, 23 girls and 27 boys. 43 of them were received in an OOC or a centre for victims of trafficking in human beings. Of 28 cases, the disappearance was reported to the Voogdij department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u48	You know, Minister, that I am very close to this issue. Unfortunately, after your answer, I still have a lot of questions. Unfortunately, mistakes are being made. That can have very far-reaching consequences, but it happens. However, the fact that mistakes are covered is worrying. This suggests that there is no will to learn from these mistakes and, moreover, what happens then that we do not know? It goes without saying that absolute clarity could only have served the confidence in the justice system, because it is not normal for the Brussels parquet to come up with a false representation of the facts over and over again. It is not normal that you were faced with my questions here in Parliament for the first time, but was not informed by the Brussels parquet, only by the federal court. It is not normal for you to have had to make false statements on the basis of false information from the parquet. Above all, it is not normal that, after much pressure, an internal investigation was eventually ordered through you by the Deputy Prosecutor of the King and that that investigation, rather than more truth, has resulted in less truth. The blame was even placed on the Netherlands. It is also not normal that additional pressure was then required by new parliamentary questions, by the press, by the Dutch parquet and undoubtedly by the Belgian parquet. There was a kind of half-hearted correction afterwards, but one had to read between the lines to understand anything about it. Hardly any responsibility was taken up and certainly not for the total lack of follow-up. In that fateful weekend, everything went wrong in terms of information sharing. After that weekend, those kids were on the scene for a long time. So a lot of opportunities were missed to save their lives. The parquet still hasn't said a word about that. Minister, I have never personally involved you in this matter, because I know that you are also personally concerned, that the reaction of the public prosecutor is not enough for you, and that you have already made a number of efforts to find out the truth. I am also sure that you have been disgraced by the way in which the Brussels Public Prosecutor has tried to cover this case. In De Afdeling, you said that you are only a passing-through door for matters relating to the parquet. If that is the case, you are of course also free to give your opinion on all of this very openly. That was the intention of my question today. In previous answers, you have already mentioned which legislation is applicable. However, you are avoiding the question of whether you are of the opinion that this regulation has been followed, what you think of it and what you are going to do. Those were very specific questions I asked you. You only referred to the parquet. You missed my introduction because you were on the phone, but are you so outraged by what happened that you will also request an investigation by the Supreme Court of Justice in accordance with the Code of Justice? That would be a very strong signal. Anyone who has a heart for the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings, policemen, first-line services, but also the many capable, involved people in the market who are working very hard on this every day, deserves a heartfelt heart. The fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings can only improve. I'm missing your personal assessment in your answer. That was a very specific question. Are you prepared to request an investigation by the Supreme Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u49	Madam President, I would like to answer the two questions because Mr Segers may not get any answers in the Committee on Justice next week. I hear he likes to hear me answer. Mr Segers, I'm someone who's outspoken once in a while. You know that. I can't be blamed for that. That's because I'm human. In general, I'm in office in the Justice Department. I have recently tried to explain this in De Afs, which Mr Boukili is so often looking at. I will leave it at that now, because I play a certain role in the institutions and I do not intend to exceed that role by letting my person play, as you say. I can think about the Supreme Court of Justice. You can think about that. If you've seen the frown in my forehead, you know I always think. I wish you a lovely evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u50	Minister, I was pleased to hear from the press this summer that training on sexual and domestic violence would soon be mandatory for all judges. This is the outcome of a request from the field that I have often relayed to you. It is also an obligation under the Istanbul Convention ratified by Belgium in 2016. Domestic violence is a scourge in Belgium: 40,000 complaints per year are registered, 117 femicides have been counted by the voluntary sector since 2017. Containment has not fixed anything: the situation has worsened with an increase in calls on listening lines across the country. The report of GREVIO (Group of Experts to Assess the Implementation of the Istanbul Convention by States Parties) published this Monday is clear: the phenomenon of violence against women is not sufficiently addressed in Belgium. Lack of training is considered to be one of the causes of both the low rate of prosecution of perpetrators, the high number of filings without follow-up of victims' complaints, and the low use of the temporary ban on residence by some prosecutors. It is really a good thing that we can move forward in this direction. How often will judges have to take this training? What is the programme? Who will provide the training? Beyond violence, will psychological economic violence be addressed as recommended by the Istanbul Convention? Professionals regularly point out that magistrates are often unable to distinguish between a family conflict and domestic violence where both spouses have an egalitarian position and a real process of domination or control. Will this distinction and phenomenon be addressed during the training courses? Do you intend to maintain parent alienation training?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u51	I refer to my written question No. 55008620c.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u52	I refer to my written question No. 55008756c.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u53	I refer to my written question No. 55008816c.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u54	Colleagues, with regard to the training of Sexual Violence, the Institute for Judicial Training is in the process of preparing these courses. The IGA assures me that it is able to organise both basic and in-depth training within the time limits laid down by the law. In view of the large number of judges covered by this obligation, training will be organized at least twice a year in order to enable everyone to follow it within the time limits set. It should also be borne in mind that appointments of magistrates and changes of office take place throughout the year and that newly appointed or newly appointed magistrates must have the opportunity to participate in basic training within two years of their appointment. The deadline for in-depth training is one year. The IGO is currently working on the programme for these courses from a multidisciplinary perspective. All actors involved in this issue, both specialized magistrates and police officers and doctors, courthouses and specialised bodies, are associated by the IGO. The same applies to trainers who will be called upon to train. The aim is to put in place a comprehensive approach to address all forms of violence: physical, economic, psychological, moral, etc. Finally, as you know, there is currently no legal obligation for, for example, family and youth magistrates to take training on parental alienation. It is up to the legislator to impose it if he considers it appropriate. The Judicial Training Institute (JTI) organized training on parental alienation in 2019 and will take the initiative to reorganize it in the future. Mrs Schlitz, I would like to apologize for not having been able to accept your other question, which was a little late and concerned figures. If we can help you in any other way, we'll try to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u55	Minister, in asking this other question, I found it interesting to react directly to GREVIO's observation. It'll be for a next commission. The fact that this is being considered in a comprehensive manner is a good thing. In any case, this will help to take victims more seriously and properly punish the perpetrators in order to send a clear message to society. It is forbidden to mistreat women. Those who do are being prosecuted. It's an important message to get across today. On the other hand, I think it is important to go further. The prevention aspect must be considered in order to avoid the passage to the act, which is still preferable. In addition, other stakeholders (police, doctors, etc.) must also be trained.), but as this is not your responsibility, I will address your colleagues. GREVIO recalls various elements relating to the training and approach to gender violence in Belgium. In particular, it stresses that there is an invisibilisation of gender-based violence against women in public policies in Belgium. There is an invisibilization of this systemic dimension. This should therefore be taken into account in the training module. Finally, in order for us to understand each other well, my request is obviously not that we continue to provide training on parental alienation, in any case not to promote the concept, but rather to follow Italy and France. We've already talked about it. These countries warn judges of this phenomenon, which is not scientifically founded, but which is too often used before courts and tribunals in Belgium. GREVIO also stressed this. The Committee notes that the problematic notion of parental alienation continues to be invoked in the preparatory and ongoing courts, and regrets this. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I remember in the discussion we had before the recess in the opinion of the IGO that this training could be organized easily through webinars. You're confirming that now. However, I have not heard when this will happen for the first time. I ask that question because I had read somewhere that this would not be for this year, but only next year. I would be very sorry to hear that, because the training of sexual violence already existed. We simply need to extend that to intra-family violence. It was intended that this could be addressed to a broad audience. Given that the phenomenon of sexual and intra-family violence is very important, it is imperative that we make an urgent commitment to sensitisation in order to further reduce the phenomenon. I would like to ask carefully, if it is still possible, that the IGA should carry on with this and that the first webinar should be given this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u57	Minister, I thought I understood that the IGO would succeed in organising the webinars twice this year, but perhaps I understood it differently from Mrs Slegers. In any case, it is a good thing that the law which was only discussed here in June came into force last month. It's too important. At a later date, we will be able to ask the Minister about the state of play on registrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I also thought they were a little further. My questions were quite specific, including the content. It looks promising. I see that people will go to the bone in what they will learn. I would also have liked to know exactly what these modules will contain. We will then ask the next Minister, or perhaps back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u59	Madam President, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u60	Mr Thiébaut is not here. You will therefore be given the floor immediately, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u61	The federal prosecutor informed me of the following information: "Five persons have appeared before the courts. Three people were arrested. Two people have been released under conditions. No one was released unconditionally. The commissioner is still in prison. On 25 September 2020, he will appear before the Chamber of Inclamation." With regard to Mr Thiébaut's questions on arms, I also quote. "It is not a priori a matter of police weapons. The examination of 3,074 weapons is still under way in the secrecy of the investigation. Given the duties under way, it is not possible to communicate on this subject in order to avoid compromising the investigation. The destruction procedure will be followed depending on the type of weapon. For the moment, priority is given to the analysis of origin, provenance, criminal or non-criminal use in order to carry out destruction."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u62	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'll follow up on the case further, but I'm pleased with the information you've given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u63	Madam President, Minister, as a reminder, on 30 June 1960, the day of Congolese independence, Mr. Patrice Lumumba becomes the Prime Minister of the Congo. On that day he gave his most famous speech, facing King Baudouin and part of the establishment of our country. He will be assassinated a few months later, following a process in which Belgium pulled the strings, as demonstrated by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry in 2002. The human remains, seized during the investigation, have been in a box at the Brussels Courthouse for more than four years. On 30 June, Juliana Lumumba, the daughter of Patrice Lumumba, sent a letter to the King requesting the restitution of her father's relics. On Thursday, 10 September, justice finally declared its readiness to return the remains of the hero of the history of anti-colonial struggles in Africa. While we are pleased with this decision, although very late, we find it extremely regrettable that the Belgian press received this information before the Lumumba family. This malfeasance is characterized by a lack of decency, despite Belgium's involvement in the colonial past of the Congo. The PTB believes that a public apology is required from the prosecutor and yourself, Minister of Justice. My group calls for this opportunity to be used to create a memorial, a symbol of renewed and progressive African nationalism. So, Minister, do you intend to apologize? Will the prosecutor's office do the same? Will you work with the entire government to impose a political act to return the human remains to Patrice Lumumba's family?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u64	Mr Boukili, this case was opened in 2011. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office first fought for the indictment chamber to validate the term war crime, a non-rescriptible offence. Without this, the facts would have been prescribed and the search that made it possible to seize the famous tooth would not have taken place in 2016. The children of Patrice Lumumba filed a petition for release of seizure on 25 August 2020. As provided for in the Code of Criminal Investigation, the investigating judge took a decision on the application within 15 days in favour of the application. The Lumumba family has already thanked the Belgian justice system as well as all the officials involved in the decision concerning the restitution of the relics of the very independent Prime Minister of the Congo. I did not receive any negative reactions from them. Respect for the victims, namely Mr Lumumba's children, has always been paramount in this case. The federal prosecutor told me that he immediately took the necessary precautions so that the family did not have to go to the transplant to recover their father's relics. In consultation with Foreign Affairs and the family, the federal prosecutor will take the necessary steps to ensure that restitution is organized in a dignified and appropriate manner. I would remind you that the Belgian parliamentary committee on the circumstances of Lumumba's death was set up in 2000-2001. The Commission's report recognized the moral responsibility of some members of the Belgian government and other Belgian actors. The result was an official apology by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs Louis Michel for the role of Belgian authorities in the assassination of the Congolese Prime Minister, an apology presented on 5 February 2002. In the context of the 60th anniversary of Congo's independence and the societal debate in Belgium on the colonial past, your Assembly has decided to set up a parliamentary committee to examine Belgium's colonial past in all its aspects, including the impact it can still have on our society. This commission has started its work. Let him do his job, draw conclusions and make any recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers. I join you in the fact that there is a work of light to be done on the colonial past. We'll let the special commission do it. My speech today focused on the attitude of the prosecutor's office, who committed a mistake of taste by announcing in the press that it was restoring Patrice Lumumba's tooth, and without informing the family. This is a miscommunication. This requires a reaction: at least from the public prosecutor's office, but also from the Ministry of Justice. On this point, I am glad to hear you say that there will be a return worthy of this name, a political restitution of this case: that it will not consist in the recovery of this tooth as a mere object stolen from the transplant. It's the least we can do, given our involvement in the past. I hope that there will be a strong political act of respect for Patrice Lumumba's memory, for his family and for the Congolese people, given what this personality represents for the Congolese people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u66	The situation in AB InBev deteriorated for several days. After the discovery of a coronavirus outbreak in the factory's transport and logistics department, management first attempted to conceal the facts before rejecting responsibility for the workers. As a result, nine people have been infected and one of them is now in a serious condition. In the face of management inaction, workers have since organized themselves and undertaken numerous strike actions to ensure that all workers can be tested. After seven days of strike, this was still not the case. We were relieved to learn that judicial officers were finally going to visit AB InBev to force management to ensure the safety of workers, as it is obliged to do. What was not our surprise to learn that these bailiffs actually went to the home of workers on strike to signal them periodicities! It is the world backwards and it is simply unacceptable. These pressures and intimidations on workers with the clear objective of depriving them of their fundamental rights and preventing them from striking are extremely worrying. Workers' demands are legitimate in the face of serious management violations, especially as we are in a global pandemic situation. How is it that a direction that violates social legislation (in this case workplace safety) is not pursued? What measures have the Labour Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office taken in this regard? Will there be any proceedings against management for infringement of the right to strike and for the exercise of pressure and intimidation against workers? How do you justify that the current legislation allows judicial officers to go to the workers' homes to give them periodic payments? Does Belgium not face a conviction for violation of fundamental rights? Finally, what did you do during your legislature to ensure that the right to strike was respected or even strengthened?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u67	Mr Boukili, Madam President, I would like to refer to the answers of my colleague, Minister Muylle, to the questions relating to this matter which do not fall within my competence. With regard to your questions in relation to the acts of the judicial officers and the Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like to point out that the decision to prosecute belongs to the magistrate. The judicial officer is only the executing officer of judicial decisions. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office may act independently if a complaint is filed or if, if necessary, it is referred to the Social Inspectorate. Thank you, Madam President, Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u68	Minister, this is somewhat in line with the intervention I made earlier on the Fortis case concerning justice. In this case, a multinational violates the workers' protection law and regulations without being worried, while the workers who went on strike to preserve their health and to enforce the government's regulations and recommendations have found themselves in a worrying situation. That's what I said earlier about the Fortis case. You can't have two-speed justice and ask people to trust justice. There can be no justice that protects a minority and comes down on a majority as soon as it comes out of the box. This is not the way to restore confidence. I think that we must stop with this class justice and try to exercise justice that is in the interests of the whole population and not only in the interests of a small minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u69	Mr Cogolati, I can provide you with the following information. I quote from the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office: "An investigating judge who is actively working with the Central Office for Economic and Financial Crimes to investigate the alleged corruption of the Belgian group Semlex. No judicial investigation has been initiated at this stage. Concerning other alleged acts of corruption committed in countries other than the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This decision was made in part because of the lack of sufficient investigative capacity within the central federal police services. In the light of the revelations that give rise to this parliamentary question, however, the question of opening a new investigation must be reconsidered. In view of the principle of the separation of powers, it is for the Belgian State to answer this question. But it is essential to remember that at this stage the Semlex Group and its representatives are supposed to be innocent." I have been informed of the capacity problem in the central federal police services, and I have been confirmed that the organizational framework for this service has been fully completed at this time. Thank you, Mr. Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am reassured to hear that an investigation has been opened. The very, very serious charges against this Belgian company and the multiple cases of corruption have been documented not only by journalists, but also by several human rights NGOs in several states and not only the DRC, but several states in Africa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u71	Mrs Bury, as Minister of Justice, I cannot comment on an individual file and on the relevant judgments. The Attorney General of Liège, who has the problem of crimes against persons in his book of jurisdiction, was unable to provide me with any further information within the short timeframe of the oral question. In general terms, I can only point out that lifelong succession after the end of the sentence, and if necessary even after an additional period of posting, is not legally possible. That would be contrary to the principle of legality of punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u72	Minister, this is still a matter that needs to be looked at further in committee. As difficult as this is, those people should be followed for the rest of their lives. It should be. Those people themselves will be protected by this, and perhaps will be more sidelined and will not commit new facts or put certain images on their computer, knowing that there can always be control. That man's been convicted. He was arrested in France because he had done something with a seven-year-old. They looked at the footage on his computer and then saw that there was a huge amount of material on it. The fact that these people are being helped and controlled for the rest of their lives is something my party supports. As difficult as that may be, that should be something that can be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u73	Mrs Soors is not here. Her question No. 55008846C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u74	Madam President, Minister, you will recall the debate we had last week. Information was then incomplete and you told us that you would complete it this week, provided the question was asked again. I would therefore like to obtain the answers to last week's questions, but also the information covering the period from 9 April, the date of the Royal Decree of Special Powers, to 19 August 2020, the date of the judgment of the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u75	Madam Chair, Mr. Aouasti, 508 inmates benefited from an interruption of their sentence as a result of the fight against the VOCID-19 pandemic. The judgment of the Court of Cassation of 19 August 2020 applied only to convicted persons who had brought the case following a notice from the Legal Service. In the interests of equal treatment of prisoners still incarcerated at that time, it was decided to enforce the effects of this judgment to other detainees. For them, the days spent outside of prison during the VOCID-19 pandemic will therefore count as days of detention. As a result of this decision, the calculation of their sentence has been adjusted to this effect. However, the two prisoners I referred to last week had already been released before that date. Therefore, recalculation had become de facto irrelevant to them. However, their names appeared in an initial selection of all the detainees who had benefited from this modality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u76	Minister, thank you for that answer. The responses reported last week remain those of this week, which means that there was finally no problem for the detainees who were to be released early before August, but who were not. That's what I understand from your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u77	Contrary to what was mentioned earlier, Question No 1 lapses. Not 55008846C by Mrs Soors. After all, it had already asked the services to postpone that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u78	Minister, pregnancy for others is today practised by many heterosexual and homosexual couples, especially abroad, and raises many ethical questions and creates many practical problems. Irrespective of the issue of GPA, which is not the subject of this intervention, the question arises of the children born of such a process, their rights and their registration. An important case law, enshrined in particular by the Brussels Court of Appeal on 10 August 2018, states for right that "even in cases of fraud under Belgian law, the best interests of the child prevail and that it is incumbent on Belgium to recognise the foreign birth certificate and not to rule on the practice in question." The ECHR, in its Menneson judgment, also held that while France is entitled to prohibit and discourage the practice of GPA, it is not for France to consider the parents' only situation, but the best interests of the child who is entitled to establish his identity, including his filiation. It should be noted, however, that civil registrars are not, to date, allowed to apply this jurisprudence and have no choice, through the setting of the BAEC system, but to be condemned after a procedure whose outcome is known and which is, moreover, costly for the local entity. Therefore, regardless of the debate on the GPA, a change in the system of the civil registration databank is necessary, even though clear instructions are given to registrars as to what is allowed and what is not. Minister, how can this jurisprudence be incorporated into the practice of registrars? Is a proposed change to the FACB parameters ready or envisaged to address this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u79	Mr Aouasti, it is important to distinguish between the recognition of these acts, on the one hand, and their integration into the database of civil registration acts, on the other. It is, in fact, perfectly possible to integrate such acts into the FACB if they are recognized. In fact, foreign acts relating to pregnancy for others have already been registered in the BAEC. The BAEC does not therefore prevent the recognition of these acts and does not oblige the municipalities to expose themselves to legal proceedings. If civil registrars encounter technical difficulties in the preparation of these acts in the BAEC, they can always contact the BAEC helpdesk. Therefore, there is no need to change the parameters of the FACB. Recognition of such acts concerns a complex matter. Indeed, it consists of different situations. One of the authors of the parental project is the biological parent or the two authors are the biological parents. The surrogate mother is or is not mentioned in the act. Judicial review is or is not carried out. This is an act or judgment, etc. In addition, regulations and procedures still diverge in the countries, regions or States concerned. In this regard, too, the legislator has not yet laid down specific rules or conditions which must be met by the use of pregnancy for others abroad in order to be recognised in Belgium. The Code of Private International Law provides that any Belgian authority, including a civil registrar, may recognize such acts. However, in each case, the officer must ensure compliance with the conditions and applicable law as defined in the Code. In this respect, the officer may request the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Central Civil Registry Authority and may also take account of European case law in this field. Moreover, European case law does not say that all cases of pregnancy for others must be recognised. A concrete investigation will always be necessary. Finally, while the best interests of the child are paramount, I would like to point out that in its decision No. 58/2020 of 7 May 2020 on fraudulent recognition, the Constitutional Court held that the legislator was able to limit the control exercised by the registrar to the fraud described in the author's head. Therefore, if the registrar finds that fraud is established, it is not his responsibility to take into account the best interests of the child. The assessment of the best interests of the child is not obvious to the registrar and it is therefore preferable for it to be made by a judge in these complex cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u80	Minister, you are absolutely right about legal developments. On the other hand, there is a problem with the information you have been given. This is not exactly the right one, since, as you say so well, there is a question of recognised foreign acts. However, the problem is that civil registrars cannot incorporate acts into the Civil Registry even if they do the checks you report on fraud and whether the foreign legal framework has been respected or not, since the national registry and the central registry of civil registrars require civil registrars to have a judicial decision on the recognition of the foreign act or judgment to open the registration faculties, which means that even if the civil registrar finally carried out this verification, it would still be technically prevented from doing so at the level of the national registry. These are real cases, unfortunately, which must lead to judicial proceedings even if no problems were raised. I am not talking about GPA, where several thousand euros would be paid as can be done in some Eastern European countries. I am talking about situations in which the legal framework is much clearer than that. My concern is that the national register today refuses, that the registrars must be convicted. In the face of consistent case law, this decision and procedures are costly for local entities. They are initially costly to conduct the proceedings, but they will be even more costly on the day that local civil liability will be called into question, as the Belgian State may be. There is an urgent need to clarify matters between the national register, the BAEC, the registrars of the civil registry, in order to avoid that, even if all the checks are made and the directives (of the public prosecutor's office) are followed, there is a possibility of a conviction, on the one hand, to recognize the act and, on the other hand, to compensation quite colossal against civil registrars who, I remind you, are personally liable (unlike the other members of a college of mayors and aldermen) to compensation for the exercise of their civil responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament 55008871C by Mrs Soors was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u82	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 55008894C may be converted into a written question, but question No. 55008895C I will say because of the recent developments in the file. Minister, a welfare survey on State Security was carried out in 2018. The results of that survey were very poor. Almost all welfare indicators scored worse than the benchmark. A large number of employees had the intention to leave. There was also a relatively large outflow. There was also a lack of resources. I have the following questions about the follow-up to that report. Firstly, one of the bottlenecks following the report was the drafting of a new statute. You mentioned that the talks with the trade unions were going on. In the meantime, we know that last Friday 18 September 2020, the Council of Ministers approved amendments to the Staff Regulations in order to clarify, eliminate or partially eliminate the differences between indoor and outdoor services. In the meantime, you will have heard that there is some displeasure, especially among the members of the public service, about the speed of the decision. They also see it partly as a sign of distrust of the state's summit of security vis-à-vis the people of the outside service, which is very unfortunate. In the present times, we really need motivated people from the Security of the State of both indoor and outdoor service. Secondly, the audit showed a large staff turnover. The annual report 2019 of the State Security, which recently appeared, showed that the workforce is still falling, partly due to retirement and partly due to other outflows. Which services have seen the greatest growth and since the welfare survey? Is there a significant difference between seniority services or other factors? What are the reasons given for the outtake calls? Finally, the State Security budget decreased in 2019. This is due, among other things, to the expiry of the IDP envelope. In recent years, the budget had increased. However, the welfare survey showed that, despite this, there was a lack of resources. What services have been specifically invested in in recent years? What were these investments made of? What influence does the reduction of resources have on the security of the State? Will there have to be savings? If yes, in what way and with what services should be saved? How will the experienced shortage of resources be met?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u83	Mr Van Hecke, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Attacks advocated a unified statute within the State's Security together with OCAD and ADIV. On my initiative, the Security of the State has drafted a royal decision, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers at second reading on 18 September 2020. That royal decision is a first step in the harmonisation of the two statutes within the State Security. The Royal Decree abolishes the flat-rate expenses which exist in the external services and creates two allowances. The basic protection allowance will be paid to all staff of the State Security and covers, inter alia, the duty of discretion and the security risks. The information allowance will be granted to staff engaged in intelligence work, including analysts. The existing expenses fees no longer met the reality on the ground. However, the creation of the two allowances prevents the staff of the outdoor service from earning less. At the same time, it provides a storage facility for the staff of the internal services and thus also brings them closer to the wages of their colleagues in the external services. In the field of annual leave, the systems of the two statutes within the service are also harmonised. Secondly, the decrease in the workforce in 2019 can be explained for one half by retirements and for the other half by other reasons. The trend in 2019 was greatest in the management of the Analysis. The lack of competitive working conditions in the areas of pay, telework and work-life balance is certainly involved. The new royal decree responds to those concerns. Moreover, the unclear organisational structure and culture are the main internal reasons for departure. The new royal decree also brings relief in that area. The harmonisation of the Staff Regulations will allow for a clearer organisational structure and cooperation. On an overall picture of the departure reasons it is still waiting, as the outtake conversations did not start again until the autumn of 2019. For full security, investments were made in new ICT resources, both in the field of hardware and software. The PCs were replaced by new ones and everyone now has recent software at their disposal. In addition, major investments are being made for the core processes in order to increase working comfort here as well. Furthermore, there is pressure to create more physical places by taking up some floors of the adjacent building in Brussels. The security of the State, anticipating the decline in operating resources due to the loss of appropriations, has asked for additional budgets to be able to deal with the information technology project in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u84	We have been able to take note of the decisions of the Council of Ministers on the statutes. There is some displeasure because people lose vacation days off the outdoors. There's also fear of loss of pay. You say that this will be dealt with by a new system, but there is certainly concern about that. Apparently, it mainly leads to a feeling of mistrust. People have the feeling that the outdoor services are being distrusted within the organization. That's not a good signal. Well-being at work is particularly important. This is also apparent from a survey carried out a few years ago. This must be invested in the coming years. There was also a growth path for staff to recruit people, wasn't there? If the budget increase is not continued or reduced, the planned capacity increase will not be able to continue. That also puts a mortgage on the operation of the intelligence services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u85	Madam President, her name is difficult to say, but she is a celebrity and a well-known figure in her fight for human rights, especially during the genocide in Rwanda. Mr Rusesabagina is the author of the film "Hotel Rwanda" and has been arrested under particularly worrying conditions, which are the subject of my question. I refer to my question as filed in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u86	Last week, I answered a similar question from Mr Aouasti. I would therefore refer you to the elements of the reply provided on that occasion. I would add that there is mutual judicial cooperation between Belgium and Rwanda in respect of the cases opened by Paul Rusesabagina et al., but that this cooperation did not at any time relate to the recent arrest of the person concerned. Furthermore, the Federal Prosecutor's Office confirms to me that a complaint was filed in Belgium by Paul Rusesabagina in 2018, after his daughter received an anonymous message about a plot against him. This file has been the subject of several investigative duties but has not been able to determine the origin or credibility of the message. As a result of this complaint, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office received no other information that raised concerns about a risk to Paul Rusesabagina. The file has therefore been closed. With regard to the accusations against Paul Rusesabagina in 2010 by a Rwandan prosecutor, this was clearly Rwanda's request for cooperation in 2011 to the Belgian judicial authorities. In this context, Paul Rusesabagina had been the subject of a hearing in Belgium. It was following this hearing that Rwanda denounced the facts to the Belgian authorities in 2012 and the Federal Prosecutor's Office opened its own case. This file is currently being investigated so that no clarification of its content can be given. The intelligence services are in no way involved in the arrest of Mr. Rusesabagina and have not communicated in any way in this regard with the Rwandan services. Finally, I can confirm that Belgium provides consular assistance to the person concerned and that his state of health and his right to defend him are closely monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u87	I thank you for making sure that the Belgian security and intelligence services are not involved in this arrest. Fortunately, this is the opposite of the general's assertions in charge and responsible for Rwandan intelligence services. He claims to the press in Rwanda that Belgium and the United States have cooperated in this arrest, but I am pleased to hear your government's denial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u88	I will accept the Minister's written reply. Unlike some colleagues, who do not have information about the future ministerial casting and do not know if I will see the minister next week or the following week, I simply wanted to thank him for his seriousness, respect and courtesy in our discussions for a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u89	Mrs Leroy has asked her question No. To convert 55009004C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u90	Mr Minister, I will now give the floor to what may be your last answer in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u91	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, there are procedures and measures concerning preventive quarantine and medical isolation for specific target groups of detainees. Hygiene measures are strictly applied. Walks, employment, group activities and training continue, provided that the measures are respected. Individual conversations can also take place. Table visits and visits to children are done with a bubble of five and on a statement of the visitor's honour that he or she does not represent a risk. Recently, there may also be limited physical contact between prisoners and their visitors. Moreover, since 14 September visits have been organised without supervision. The recommendations of Sciensano and the Security Council are always taken into account in the design of internal policies. Prison policies are still stricter than in the free society in order to reduce the internal risk of contagion. In drawing up the instructions, an active effort is made to strike a balance between physical security and the psychological and emotional well-being of the detainees. The relaxation policy currently being implemented was submitted to and approved by Sciensano. Internal policies are also always presented to Empreva and to internal prevention advisers. No corona virus has been detected at the moment. For your questions on the current number of tested and positively infected prisoners, I would like to refer to the figures I already gave in the topical debate on the strike announcement. At the start of the crisis in March and the implementation of the strict security measures, a number of prisons have been affected. Since then, there has been no increase in the number of incidents associated with the corona crisis. As far as your question on the detection of drugs is concerned, DG EPI has given me the following figures. In 2018, drugs were found 965 times. In 2019 this decreased to 285. The figures for 2020 are not yet available. Moreover, it was decided not to carry out dog actions from the end of March to the beginning of June in order not to increase the pressure in prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u92	Minister, I hope this was not my last question to you, but perhaps it will be in a different capacity next time. I would like to thank you for your cooperation, a period together in the majority and not for a period of time. We have not always agreed, but I think we have been able to achieve a number of things. I hope that we can continue to work in a similar way and in a constructive atmosphere in this Committee on Justice, even beyond party boundaries. I wish you every success in the next few hours and days. I think there's still some exciting hours coming, both for you and for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u93	I agree with you, Minister. I can't wait to see what it's gonna be. Maybe we'll see you again next week, we'll see. I understand you won't be able to come next week, but maybe the week after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, Mrs De Wit and Mr Aouasti in particular. I would like to thank you for your cordiality and the spirit of cooperation that has always prevailed in this committee. I am sure that this will still be the case in the future. So don't worry. Perhaps it is a prospect for the future that you do not share, but being a member of this committee would be a great honour for me. Thank you and wish you a very nice evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u95	Madam President, I would also like to thank the staff of the cabinet, because they have always ensured that we have relatively correct answers. Maybe it wasn't always what we wanted to hear. In this committee answers were given weekly to the many questions that were asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic268x.u96	That has been worked very hard, I can testify to that. That is a task that requires a great deal of love from the cabinet staff. This requires a great deal of love from the administration, the cabinet, the prosecution and the Sûreté, but above all from the Chief of Staff. Whether he is a man or a woman, he has always read the answers and every character with great attention. Thank you.
