ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u2	Prime Minister, the corona figures are rising at a furious pace. The question is no longer whether there will be a second wave, but how high it will be. We must now do what is necessary to avoid a real lockdown and keep the schools open. You have all our support for that. You also have our support to continue to support those sectors that are most affected, such as the catering industry and the cultural sector. Colleagues, we often say that corona affects everyone, but that is not true. Corona hits some people harder. People in poverty are five times more likely to die from corona. It is people who are in financial difficulties, who have health problems, who cannot pay the bills, who often live close to each other. People who are already hard hit by life are more affected by corona. In addition, groups of people keep the country running. Often they cannot work at home or it is difficult to keep distance at work. I am referring to our cleaning women, our caretakers in day care, our bus drivers and, of course, not least, our caregivers. Colleagues, when a company threatens to go under, we take emergency measures. We have taken emergency measures to preserve jobs, and that is quite right. Many measures are already being taken to save people's lives, but if certain people become more ill and are also more likely to die, then the government must also take emergency measures for them. The government wants to do a lot to fight poverty, with unseen social efforts. However, people get sick today and end up in the hospital tomorrow. What urgent emergency measures will the government take to better protect the people most affected by the pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u3	Prime Minister, let us dare a lucid diagnosis. The gallop virus. Caregivers are under maximum pressure and do their utmost to save lives. Hospitals are beginning to deprogram the care of non-VOCID-19 patients, which is a disaster. People who need to be tested wait three days to be tested, and three more days to get the result. People who should be tested are not. People who should be contacted to be protected are not. That's not right! Every day, a new additional decision adds one layer to the other layers. We left the bubble, went to bars, then to curfews, to problems of sport, drinkers, universities, and then, sometimes, we change again. In short, it goes all the way, and it is the best way not to get citizens' support. Tomorrow there is a consultation committee. Let me make a triple request. First, stop the sausageing of advertisements. Coordinate all decisions even if they are not all the same in each Region. This contributes to citizens' acceptance. Secondly, should we go further? The question is on all press sites. I would like to ask you first to ensure that the measures that are decided are actually implemented. Take the example of telework. It has been highly recommended for weeks. We don't know its effectiveness. Clearly, when you see the number of people on public transport, it is far from being applied whenever possible. It is probably time to switch to mandatory telework whenever possible. You also need to make sure that the measurements make sense. To do this, we must really target the places where there is the greatest risk of transmission of the virus. I come to my third request. And I know I've been rubbing the same thing for weeks, but I'll keep doing it. One of the only real weapons we have is testing, tracing to alert and isolating to protect. It's saturated, overflowing. It's late. On paper, it's okay. In practice, not at all! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u4	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of collective immunity, we must recognize that this virus is a school of collective humility for all of us. Quite ironically, one of the problems in the fight against this virus is that we live in democracy. We cannot - obviously, it is happy - put a police officer in every bar, in every restaurant, let alone in every school or family. Combating such a virus, in democracy, obliges us to convince, to communicate, to federate, to win the battle of accession. Now, this accession battle, Prime Minister, we have been losing it for a few weeks now. We are losing it because the outgoing government, just before handing over its apron, has sent a message perceived as a relaxation, of which we see today how wrong it is. We have lost it because for weeks we have been witnessing disorderly measures that do not convince, such as partial curfews in the province at the heart of the night, restrictions in cafes on the one hand, in sports clubs on the other. In short, we lose it because what has been done in the last few weeks does not seem strong enough to be perceived as effective and not coherent enough to be perceived as credible. Finally, we lose it because we do not have a consistent approach to outbreaks of contamination. Some are subject to binding measures, such as bars and families; others are not subject to a clear protocol, such as businesses. To win such a battle in a democracy, the measures must be implemented, and therefore seen as necessary and justified. It is time to gather the scattered messages and give them a sense of urgency, because the snowball in front of us is becoming avalanche. Prime Minister, you and your government still have real credit in public opinion today. Will you have the political courage to take strong, coherent, logical steps, but above all to be able to explain them convincingly as soon as possible? If so, which ones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u5	Madam President, Prime Minister, just now, with the dark days ahead of us, uncertainty is increasing. These aren't easy times. The corona virus has shaken our society dramatically and everyone feels vulnerable today. Unfortunately for some people that vulnerability is not new. Yesterday, the Socialist Mutualities confirmed what we all knew, they are like older, poorer people who are hit hardest. Poor makes sick and sick makes poor. Corona also makes poverty more visible. Because of the crisis, people in poverty have even less access to health care. The number of people who need to call on the food bank is increasing. Child poverty figures were already worrying and rising before the crisis. I can go on like this for a while. Corona forces us to see that what the government did is not enough. Inequality will only be greater after this crisis. Corona is now asking for an emergency hold, but the consequences of corona require structural solutions. The distance from a doctor cannot be reduced in a few weeks. The distance to healthy nutrition cannot be reduced in a few weeks. Addressing child poverty requires a thorough and thought-out policy. The political choices made by this government can and will make a huge difference for people in poverty. Prime Minister, Saturday is the Day against Poverty. What measures will you and your government take to support people in poverty, especially now, in these difficult and difficult times? Do you agree with the sp.a that we should work on structural solutions to structural poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u6	Madam President, Prime Minister, the situation is very serious given the number of viruses affecting our society today. I would like to emphasise the formidable solidarity that exists among the people, within the families, within the care, with the workers, with certain employers. Solidarity to fight together so that we can defeat this virus. My problem, Prime Minister, is that when you announce measures, you always talk about the responsibility of the citizens, the responsibility of the individuals. But when are you actually talking about the responsibility of politics for the decisions you have to take? I would like to mention two themes: the time needed to obtain a test result and the loss of purchasing power for workers who are sick today because of corona. This cannot continue in this way, Prime Minister! First, as far as testing is concerned, there are many testimonies from people who say they had to wait three or four days before obtaining the result of their test. It's not serious! During these three or four days, people are forced to continue to circulate without knowing the results of their test. Mr Philippe De Backer, a member of your party, had announced in great pomp that 630,000 tests would be carried out a week. Do you remember? How many tests are carried out today per week? Three hundred thousand. It's not serious! At Sciensano, 50% of the test results did not return within 24 hours. It's not serious! In Asia, whether in South Korea or China, 7.5 million tests are performed in three days. And Belgium, one of the richest countries in the world, which has an incredible scientific capacity, is unable to guarantee results in 24 hours. That's bullshit! This is the second important point, namely the loss of purchasing power for quarantine workers. Do you know how many workers lose in the event of quarantine? Does anyone in the room have any idea? They lose 30% of their purchasing power, just because we think we've been in contact with highly contaminated people. Why is this loss of purchasing power maintained? Workers must be entitled to 100 per cent of their wages. Otherwise, people will be pushed to continue working when they should be in quarantine. I would like to have an answer from you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u7	Madam President, Prime Minister, I will be direct. I'm getting it on my hips. We're in the second wave now. We should have learned so much after eight months of corona crisis. We have a lot of data, but it's so little done with it. As for the 90,000 tests promised a day by the end of September, it's October and we're only halfway there. There's no sign of saliva tests and quick tests. However, they are widely used abroad, but not with us. Since March, the Netherlands has been testing the waste water to locate hotbeds, which is not happening to us. We saw weeks ago that the number of infections was rising in Wallonia and Brussels, while too little was being tested. We had that data, but nothing was done about it. However, we have long known that nothing is more important than testing, testing and testing. And now the labs can't even handle the situation. It's so bad that our elders, our most vulnerable from tomorrow, apparently can't be tested anymore. How is that possible? And then the most important thing. We still don't know where we're getting the infections, which is crucial to a targeted policy. How is that possible? These are all matters that our group has been raising in this Parliament for months, but where we did not get any or half answers. Prime Minister, I have two questions for you. We are able to detect super-dispersors and detect hotbeds, but when will we now use that data to graft the policy on them? When will the test capacity be ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u8	The coronavirus is killing wounds in our society. We've been in a health crisis since March. That's seven months now. Seven months in which we have drastically reduced our social contacts, in which we can speak from a distance and in which we can only cuddle with our limited bubble. We need to distance ourselves from each other so we don't give that virus a chance. However, we also see that a lot of people are getting emotionally and mentally heavy. With winter in front of the door and the dark days in prospect, it is already a difficult and often lonely period for people. The combination with the coronavirus has a huge impact on mental well-being. Now that many events do not continue, cafés are only limited open, there is little room for social contacts. People who are alone are now completely isolated. On top of that, many people feel the fear and uncertainty that the health crisis and the economic crisis bring. Who can see that in the increasing number of calls that the helplines, such as the Suicide Line, are getting. I can see that as mayor, too. A lot of people crave a conversation and want to vent their hearts. Mental health care is, of course, largely a Community competence. It is therefore important that the policy levels in these times of crisis reinforce each other in order to guide as many people as possible who are confronted today with feelings of anxiety, depression and loneliness. Many initiatives are already being taken at regional level. For example, Flanders quite rightly attracts more resources and Mrs De Block also took the initiative in the past to have not only adults, but also children accompanied by first-line psychologists and to pay back online consultations. The government agreement also makes EUR 200 million extra available for mental health care, which can of course be used in this area. Mr. Prime Minister, will you join the Consultation Committee tomorrow...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u9	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, action has been taken for exactly seven months. Of course, they were necessary. They have had an impact on the economy, on people. They have also given rise to accompanying, supporting measures for entrepreneurs, workers and many actors. During this first wave, many people were affected, sometimes in a close manner, by the disease in their families but also at their income level. Today, the spread figures for VOCID-19 are worrying. Steps have been taken to limit contacts. Others may be taken in the near future. Some sectors, such as events, horeca, artists, cultural technicians, see this difficult period economically and humanly prolonged. And that worries me! However, this news comes at the same time as an important date: 17 October. This Saturday is World Day for Combating Poverty and Refusal of Poverty. This is an opportunity to recall that the crisis of VOCID-19 has had a specific and very important impact on people living in poverty. This timing chance should invite us to consider support measures for those who have stopped their activities, those who risk slipping into poverty, but also for those who are already living in poverty. It can be assumed that the additional VOCID measures that will be taken will be strong. The most fragile accompanying measures must be equally so. Prime Minister, how will this support be integrated into your reflection on the possible future rules that you would have to take? Are specific measures envisaged for people living in poverty? I invite you, in any case, to pay the utmost attention to these audiences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u10	Mrs Cornet, thank you and I ask for a special applause for your Mayden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u11	Prime Minister, you have eight minutes to respond. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u12	Madam President, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you. This is a first in Belgium: a woman presides over the House. That's great news! I would like to congratulate you on that. [[Applause]] This is already the case in other assemblies. I think, for example, of the Flemish Parliament. I hope that I do not have to convince anyone here in the hemisphere that the situation is particularly serious. Today we are talking about 470 confirmed cases of COVID-19 per 100,000 inhabitants in our country. That is the highest figure we have known in our country since March 2020, when 180 cases per 100,000 inhabitants were discussed. So we're almost three times as high. The situation today is a lot worse in the area of confirmed cases with COVID-19 than it was during the first wave. We all know people who are infected, who are in quarantine or are in hospital today. That's the big difference from the first wave. At that time we often felt that it was relatively far away. Today we all know people affected by the pandemic in our surroundings. The infections are absolutely exponentially high. Yesterday I visited hospitals in Antwerp and Brussels together with the Minister for Health, Frank Vandenbroucke. It is absolutely clear that the situation in our hospitals is at a turning point. In our hospitals, those responsible are on the verge of considering whether they should begin to postpone regular, normal care as a result of the number of COOVID-19 intercourses they know today. We are in that situation today. At national level, we know that hospitals are in this famous phase 1A today, with 25% of the intensive capacity reserved for COOVID-19 beds. Today, Brussels is already a step further. Today, in Brussels, we are already talking about 50% of the capacity reserved for this purpose. We must not delude ourselves. The projections are very clear. The situation in Brussels today will recur in exactly the same way in the other provinces of our country, in the coming days and weeks. Soon, unfortunately, we will see the Brussels situation in other parts of the country. We need to be very aware of what that means. This means that for regular care, choices will have to be made at some point. People will have to be told that regular care is at risk. They will be advised that an operation, for example, will have to be postponed because priority will have to be given to the management of VOCID-19. It is a particularly serious situation: the number of cases is increasing exponentially. There are not a few percentage points, we are talking about doubling. Almost week-over-week we are talking about doubling. Our mission is very clear: we need to control the situation in hospitals, we need to keep the situation workable for doctors and nurses, people who have been under very heavy pressure since March of this year. It is absolutely clear that this is the task of getting the situation in hospitals under control for the people who will be admitted, but especially for those who have been giving the best of themselves in healthcare for months. For this reason, we have launched a package of measures which we have already explained last week in this Parliament. It is clear that the measures that came into force last Friday will have an effect in the coming days. Current growth can be estimated to slow down; however, it will always be growth. That is why I am convinced that further action is needed. In view of the current epidemiological situation in our country, further measures will need to be taken quickly. They are necessary and it is with this in mind that a concertation committee will be held physically tomorrow. There will be new measures but also a more systematic and long-term approach. You probably heard about the barometer system. Introducing this barometer gives a more motivating element of predictability for our citizens. There has been a lot of talk over the last few days about acceptance; people were asked if they understood the measures and wanted to follow them. Some of you complained that people were no longer following and that they had lost contact. I do not know whether this is about gut feeling or not; I am looking at the figures. A study by the University of Ghent, the motivation barometer, showed that motivation is increasing considerably. The study shows that people are willing to accept and follow stricter rules. The basic rule must be that the measures must be clear and simple. That is one of the reasons why motivation has increased, because we have done everything we can to take simple and clear measures. I would like to call on everyone to continue with this logic in the coming decisions: let us take measures that are simple, that understand people, that are clear and that can be maintained. After all, enforcement is essential. Of course, too complex measures make enforcement particularly difficult. Mrs Gijbels, you had questions about testing and about the possibility of offering more tests to residential care centres. That question was asked to the federal government last night; new tests were then sought and found. Minister Vandenbroucke has indicated that additional tests are available. From Friday and Saturday 1,000 additional tests will be available to meet demand. Moreover, we can see that there is a growing demand for testing throughout Europe. Today we carry out 60,000 tests every day in our country. So the demand for tests continues to rise and we are doing everything we can to increase the number. I was also asked what the government was doing to try to help people who are most affected - not only by the pandemic, but also from a social and financial perspective. In the coalition agreement, as you may have seen, a number of important measures are being taken. The government agreement increases minimum pensions, the government agreement increases living wages and the government agreement increases allowances for disabled people. We are not talking here about small increases, but about increases of 11% in the cases I have just mentioned. In doing so, we are making particularly significant increases. I would add that all the efforts we make to prevent people from getting sick are in everyone's favour and above all in favour of the weak. For those who are already financially or socially weaker, if they are medically affected by the pandemic, the impact is much greater. Today, I think, more than ever, people are aware that economics and health are not opposed to each other in this pandemic. It is not possible to build a healthy economy on unhealthy people. Nor is there a healthy social tissue if people are unhealthy. Today, therefore, health is more than ever the basis of an economy, which can once again show resilience. Our social fabric can also show the resilience we need in our country. Madam President, I will conclude. I have to go to a European Council earlier. Among other things, we will talk about a European strategy for vaccines. For months, work has been done in collaboration at European level. In this area, thousands of scientists are working on it, including in our universities, and they are doing so in a way that is not usual. It's not in competition, it's in collaboration. This spirit of collaboration rather than competition, this spirit of transparency rather than secrecy, this spirit of solidarity must inspire us. What we are trying to do at European level must also inspire us in Belgium. The fight we wage is a fight we wage together, all the Belgians united without any distinction. Everyone has to take responsibility for this fight. It is clear and we do it for ourselves, but we do it especially for others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. The situation is indeed very serious. In Ecolo-Groen you will always find a partner to work together, to do everything you can to get that curve down. As far as vulnerable people are concerned, you indeed mentioned the structural measures that are ambitious in the coalition agreement and which I also mentioned. It also says that we will close the health gap by 25%, and we are ambitious in this area too. I would ask you not to delay this and to begin to narrow that gap in the heart of the crisis. Colleagues, these are people who don't have time to write open letters. These are people who are not on Twitter, because they have other great concerns on their minds. I do see it as my job to represent their voices here loudly and continue to press the government to keep its finger on the wrist to protect those people as much as possible. I will therefore be very careful to ensure that this is done quickly and adequately. We must not accept that in a rich country such as ours, people who are less broad, they are left to their fate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u14	Prime Minister, let us not repeat the same mistakes as in March, whether it is a lack of coordination in federal communication, incomprehensible announcements from all levels of government, or visual navigation not based on clear findings that make the best decisions. But we are adding decisions, as you are announcing for tomorrow, without even having the previous ones actually implemented – as is the case with telework. We can, and even must, do better if we are to succeed in combating this virus, including in the procedures for testing, tracing and isolating which are politically developed and exist on paper, but which prove to be practically inefficient. Finally, let me think of the caregivers and patients of VOCID-19, those who die or develop chronic pathology, but also all the others. Postponing care represents a real disaster in terms of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u15	Prime Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. Of course, I have no doubt about your full awareness of the seriousness of the situation. You are also announcing measures for tomorrow that will be clear and simple. With regard to this famous barometer, of which we do not yet know much, I would ask you to make it a real tool for simplification, not for complexity. Everyone still remembers the color codes for holiday destinations. Our country maintains this speciality of adding complexity where we all feel that this is not necessary. Please don't miss this date! Whether it is to maintain or resurrect membership, citizens need clear, accessible and understandable measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u16	Prime Minister, I would just like to point out that my group is convinced that we need to focus on a genuine social revival plan for the most vulnerable people, not additional paragraphs in an economic revival plan, but a real approach for this vulnerable group. This is not just how we are dealing with the number of infections now, but we are also about to end structural poverty. The ball is in your camp, Prime Minister. The need is high and we look forward to your plan of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u17	Prime Minister, you say you want to regain confidence, but you simply allow yourself not to answer my questions. This is crazy! A Member of Parliament is asking questions and you are not answering! I asked if it was normal for people to wait four or five days to receive the test result and you did not answer it. We don't care! However, it is a question that tens of thousands of people are asking themselves. How do you think you can regain confidence? You have to answer that question. A period of four or five days is not normal! I asked you a second question which related to the loss of purchasing power. Today, do you know how much a worker is losing to whom he or she is told to have had contact at risk and to whom he or she is asked to quarantine? Two hundred euros since he receives only 70% of his salary. You can imagine the choice the worker has to make: lose two hundred euros or put himself in preventive quarantine! For their part, ministers who have been quarantined have lost nothing of their wages, unlike workers who lose 30% of their purchasing power. I asked you what you were planning to deal with this situation, but you did not answer my question. It's not serious! The agenda of the meeting provides time for oral questions. I have the opportunity to question you and you come with generalities. It is not in this way that we can do it! I therefore invite you to find a solution for maintaining the purchasing power of the workers and so that the results of the tests can be provided within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u18	Prime Minister, you're talking about 1,000 extra tests. That's 39 grand left to get to 90,000. So there's still some work to be done. I am very sorry that there are so long waits for rapid tests and source detection. I also find it unacceptable to have information from the first wave and not to use it, and not to draw lessons from the first wave. Our economy and our citizens are victims of too lax federal policies. Our restaurants, our entrepreneurs, our care providers, but also our all mental health, are at stake. So I hope that soon the team will be beaten up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Like I said, as mayor, I'm getting a lot of signals from residents who are mentally struggling. Loneliness will strike even harder in the coming months. It is good that you do not lose sight of these vulnerable situations. After the peak of the coronavirus, the peak of psychological problems also threatens. The end of the year, a period in which traditionally family and celebrating together, will look completely different this year. Hopefully we can all together stop the worrying evolution of the figures and we can still celebrate something or some Christmas. Let that be an important motivation for everyone to continue to follow the measures. Because together we determine the curve.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u20	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I have heard that the structural measures you mentioned are reflected in the government agreement, and I welcome them of course. With the Ecolo-Groen Group, I will support all the initiatives taken to help the affected audiences, whether they are the self-employed, the employees, the parents on the brink of burnout, as my colleague Mrs Leroy mentioned yesterday, or the people who are already living in poverty, you will have my support. I will be listening in the Committee on Social Affairs. Today, the risk of poverty rate is 20% in Belgium. During the first wave of the VOCID-19 in Belgium, 200,000 people called on food banks. No one wants this situation to happen again. As you said, measures are necessary. I ask you: try to integrate, now, at the moment when the measures are going to be implemented, this reflection aimed at helping each of the public if the measures (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u21	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday an interesting report was published on the use of cars in our country in recent months. The analysis of GPS data shows that after the obvious dip during the lockdown in spring car use has increased enormously after that lockdown, to such an extent that we in cities like Ghent and Charleroi currently measure more traffic pressure than before the corona crisis. In cities such as Antwerp and Brussels, too, it is likely to evolve in this direction. I understand very well why people, especially now, when the virus is spreading more and more, are more inclined to opt for the car than for collective transport. It simply feels safer to use the car as the extension of the safe bubble at home. At the same time, I do not think that anyone wants to return to the pre-corona-crisis mobility situation. A situation with miserable traffic jams that cause enormous damage to our economy, to our health and to the climate, we can now really miss as toothache. In our city centres, there has also been more room for residents, cyclists and pedestrians in recent months, and I do not think anyone wants the city centres to turn back into half public parking. It is therefore important to look for ways to restore people's confidence in public transport. People can indeed choose public transport, because the trains, buses and trams continue to run. Minister, how will you ensure that people are prepared to opt for public transport more often, now but also after the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u22	Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment to this important function. Mr Vandenbroucke, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer my first topical question in Dutch. As you know, the situation with regard to COVID-19 changes from day to day and the more specific mobility situations in the corona era, including the recommendation or obligation of telework. I naturally share your concern, Mr Vandenbroucke. The COOVID-19 crisis must be an opportunity to review our transport behaviour. It must not lead to an increase in car traffic and the associated pollution. The population must continue to be able to choose a form of mobility that is in line with our climate objectives. In the coming weeks, months and years, together with the regions, the public transport companies, the municipalities and Parliament, we will have to work even harder to promote sustainable modes of transport. In this context, I have two priorities. Firstly, we must restore the confidence of users in public transport and take them out of a certain temporary disappointment. In order to do so, it is necessary to ensure the best possible level of supply in the coming weeks and months. That is not easy, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank SNCB's staff for their presence at the height of the crisis. In order to restore user confidence, it is necessary to show that public transport companies are committed to the protection of health, I am thinking of disinfection and cleaning, to inform users about the travel slots in which fewer people are on the way and to finally reinvest in the rail system in accordance with the government agreement we approved two weeks ago. That is also the intention of the Hello Belgium Railpass, as you know. Secondly, the COOVID-19 crisis also generates behaviour that should certainly be encouraged. I am thinking here of opting for walking and cycling, as in the big cities. Any proposal for solutions to ensure the best possible distribution of space between the different modes of transport for the benefit of cyclists and pedestrians will be supported by the federal government and myself. I know that I can also count on your support, Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You can indeed count on my support in the matter of encouraging people to use public transport more effectively. Your answer contains two fundamental points which satisfy me. Firstly, there is a need for clear communication, a need for clear language about the efforts being made to ensure that people can safely use public transport today. We also need to look at the future, and we do so with this government, by providing funds for additional investment and additional supply in rail transport. Of course, these investments can only be profitable if effective use is made of them. So let us together restore people's confidence in public transport over the next few weeks and months, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u24	Madam President, Minister, the first time in this setting. Today there was big news on the front page of De Tijd about the city toll in Brussels. This is a new tax that will have to pay half a billion euros. It's about a form of bill riding, mostly paid by the working Flemings. Many tens of thousands of Flemings commute to Brussels every day to work there, to study, to bring children to and from school. It is an antisocial measure that can create an unemployment trap in Flanders. It is a tax in excess of EUR 900 million, which has been flowing to Brussels since 2012 to develop, among other things, a mobility policy. It is a tax on top of the small EUR 30 million that Flanders pays annually as a shuttle correction to Brussels. The worst, Minister, this happened without any consultation with the Regions. The word without is completely contrary to the ambition you wrote in your coalition agreement. It says that in consultation with the Regions a lot of concrete things are to be achieved. Minister, can we count on you to control your Green colleague in Brussels and ask her to enter into consultations with the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u25	Madam President, Minister, a friend of mine lives in Wemmel. She works at the Saint Jans Hospital in Brussels and has to commute between Wemmel and Brussels. She works in shifts and has two children. I have calculated how much the city toll will cost her: more than EUR 1,000, Minister. More than 1,000 euros more taxes for Nadia who has made an incredible effort throughout the corona period to run the hospital. One of Brussels' four Mobility Ministers decides to charge more than half a billion euros of taxes to the working people of Wemmel, Zaventem and Nivelles today. For all working people it is now decided that they will have to pay more taxes. Mr Minister, I also read in the government agreement that you, too, are proposing to apply flexible tariffs to SNCB. Will that mean that people will have to pay more during rush hour? Will that be it? Does this mean that people taking public transport will have to pay for it again? That won't be with us anyway. Mr Minister, my questions to you are as follows. Has there been any consultation between the four ministers? What will you do to stop that city vat? Are the flexible rates at SNCB effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that the Brussels Government is tackling the problem of congestion, which is all too often paralysing our capital city. In that connection, I would like to remind you of some facts. Firstly, every year, Brusselsers lose an average of 195 hours in traffic. That amounts to more than eight days lost a year. Secondly, in Brussels, transport accounts for 60% of NOx emissions and 30% of greenhouse gases, not to mention the visual disturbance and noise caused by cars. Thirdly, 50% of Brussels citizens do not have a car, but still have to deal with these negative effects. Fourthly, Belgium's congestion is responsible for a GDP loss of 1% to 2%. That's billions of euros. From the point of view of the environment, economy and mobility, everyone loses because of the situation: Flemings, Walen, Brusselsers, motorists and people without cars. Like you, I read in the press this morning that the Brussels Government is working on a smart mileage tax. The federal government has not yet been informed of the project at this stage. It is not advisable for the federal government to comment on a file that is only at the project stage with a federated entity. Mr Raskin, I have too much respect for my excellent colleague Van den Brandt to try to control her. As soon as the Brussels Government has officially adopted a position, we will ask for consultation, which is logical, if it is not already de facto organised by the Brussels Government. I am in contact with my three excellent colleagues in the regions, Mrs Peeters, Mrs Van den Brandt and Mr Henry. In addition, the government and I, as Minister for Mobility, will do our best to make rapid progress with a policy of credible and affordable alternatives to the car, such as the train and bicycle and car-pooling. We will soon have the opportunity to discuss this in detail, namely when presenting my policy paper. Mrs Vindevoghel, we will not allow SNCB passengers to pay more during peak hours, that is not the intention of the government agreement. We shall come back to that in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u27	Minister, it is true that there is no official position yet, but what I read concerns me and many Flemings very much. I will not deny that there are challenges in terms of mobility, nor will I deny that mobility has an impact on various areas. You say that everyone loses and that may be true, but in this story the Flemings lose the most. I am particularly curious about the attitude of the Prime Minister and his party. What will Open Vld do? Brussels is already getting a lot of money for mobility and the urban function. In the meantime, Mrs Peeters, responsible for mobility in Flanders, and Mr Gatz, responsible for finance in Brussels, do have the key. Will Open Vld allow Flanders to pay the toll literally and figuratively for the green fetish in this time of crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u28	Minister, of course we want public transport in Brussels to be much better, but we do not want workers to have to pay. I note that you agree with the Brussels proposal that the commuters living in the outskirts, in Flanders or Wallonia, will pay more. For someone with a wage of 1,600 or 1,700 euros 1,000 euros per year is a lot of money. I read today that the city toll can cost some people up to 100 euros a month. Do you know what that is for the ordinary worker? There is no such measure with us. It is not the workers who have to pay for better public transport; we want better public transport but not extra taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u29	Minister, the last medieval city toll was abolished in this country in 1860. Today, 160 years later, the so-called progressives in our capital want to re-introduce a city toll. In recent years, the left-wing guys in Brussels have done their utmost to damage the economic fabric of our capital city: removing parking spaces, unthought-out pedestrian zones and an antisocial low-emission zone. And now, as cherry on the cake, a city vat. Brussels passes the cash register five times: the shuttle dotation 50 million euros, the capital function 60 million euros, the mobility donation 150 million euros, the transfers from Flanders to Brussels 1.7 billion euros. All together about 2 billion euros. There is now another city toll, which, hold on to it, has to pay half a billion euros. The sixth state reform provided for yet another transfer for commuting movements, the commuting. I know what you will say, Minister: the commuting and the city toll are two different things, one cannot compare apples with pears. But that's not true, of course. The Brussels city toll is compensated for Brussels citizens by the abolition of entry and annual road taxes. But this does not apply to the Flemish commuters. In this way, a bill is paid twice by the commuters: on the one hand, by means of the commutation, on the other hand, directly via a city toll. Minister, how can this vision and the Brussels city toll be reconciled with the financing mechanism and the commitments made in the context of the sixth state reform? Should there also be a dotation for Brusselsers working in Flanders, or a toll on Brussels-based immigrant young people sinking to our Flemish coast? It would already benefit crime rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u30	Madam President, when I read the newspaper this morning, I was, frankly, a little surprised by what was in it. That does not, of course, mean that I agree with what Mr Gilkinet has just said. He said that a proposal from the Brussels Government is on the table today, that we have not officially been informed of it and that we are therefore not officially able to answer it. However, as Mr Gilkinet said, consultation is necessary. Consultation shall take place best within the framework of the Consultation Committee. That Consultative Committee has other cats to fling today than this point. In any case, I will ask Mrs Van den Brandt for some clarification on the proposal they wish to make. You also referred to commuting. That is, of course, a more technical discussion. The commutation has nothing to do with car use today. I should not repeat that, because you asked that question exactly a year ago in committee, and my predecessor replied to it. The commutation has been introduced as part of the sixth state reform. You know that very well. A correction was necessary at the time when the federal income tax was distributed among the Regions. That correction was based on the number of commuters. This has nothing to do with car use. The toll that is on the table today has to do with the use of cars and is something completely different. The power to introduce such a charge, if any, lies entirely with the regions. The Regions are allowed to introduce such a thing. This has already happened in Flanders with, among other things, the mileage tax for lorries. However, consultation is necessary. In any case, I will inform myself of the proposal that is on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u31	Mr. Secretary, we fit for this city toll. 'Cause who's gonna pay for it eventually? We all know it: the hardworking Flemings who have to get out of the way day in, day out of the way to work in Brussels. The Flemings who are in traffic every morning will be able to pay the Brussels bills. Our car is already the milk cow of the state treasury today, and now a city toll comes on top, thanks to the many Flemish commuters for services rendered. The Flemings eventually pay the bill twice. Directly through the billions of transfers and the donations to Brussels, and directly through a city toll. That is, of course, unacceptable. My party will challenge this umpteenth plague tax to the highest level and file a conflict of interest. We Flemings say very clearly adieu to that French-speaking arrogance. No more paying!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u32	Mr Minister, yesterday I read in some newspaper articles about an investigation into the impact of corona on public health in vulnerable target groups. Unfortunately, the numbers are really not to write home about. In the vulnerable groups there is 70% excess mortality. We are facing very difficult times. A quarter of Belgians postpone care for financial reasons. Today, many people do not find their way into matters relating to public health. We're failing in that. The figures on the basis of origin are also very poignant. The Belgians have an excess mortality rate of 56%. For Belgians with a migration background, this excess mortality is no less than twice as high. I ask myself a lot of questions about that. I hope that we can get your support in this respect. There are many serious inequalities in our public health in all areas. I hope that we can form a team that, hand in hand, fights against it. The ambition to reduce the public health gap is included in the government agreement. How will we reduce this gap, even in this crisis? Will you provide rapid tests for vulnerable neighbourhoods to ensure that corona infections in those neighbourhoods can be detected more quickly? Today we do not reach our young people via newspapers and TV. Can you please ensure that there is also a social media campaign to get these young people on the wagon?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u33	Madam President, Minister, the second wave of fear is indeed there. This was confirmed yesterday by the crisis centre at the press conference. In addition, we have a sad second place at European level in terms of contamination. But what worries us above all, of course, is the situation in our hospitals, where hospitalizations are increasing, even exploding in some cases. We must therefore act. And as we know, one of the pillars in the fight against the virus still remains testing and tracing. Yet today, it is the entire screening chain that is on the brink of implosion. General practitioners are overburdened with administrative tasks, while at the same time they have to take care of all the winter diseases that begin. Sorting centres struggle to make appointments, see queues grow longer and are sometimes simply forced to close their doors. Laboratories, for their part, can no longer cope with the lack of human resources and reagents, resulting in the results of tests which are still far too long overdue. Mr Minister, do you confirm that a new testing strategy will soon be put in place, notably through the use of rapid testing and the establishment of the Federal Bi platform? How do you plan to make this screening chain more effective in the future? Given the unreassuring figures of the past few days, will new measures be on the table for this Friday's consultation committee? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u34	Madam President, Minister, it is exactly a week since my colleague from Aalst was not accused of racism here because he said he preferred the hospital of Aalst to be reserved for the people of his own region. That happened not only because of you, but also because of three other Members of Parliament. Three days later, 14 hospitals had the same idea. It was not only about ordinary hospitals, but also about the Grand Hôpital de Charleroi, la région de M. Magnette. There, too, the director said that we are not taking patients from Brussels. We have enough problems of our own. People don't follow the law there anyway. There are only two pvs in Molenbeek and seven per day in Brussels. It is not a question of sensitisation, it is not a question of penalisation. You are well aware, Minister, that we have suffered a great deal from our policies on the coast. The previous policy did not allow people with a second stay to come to the coast. The reason was that their own hospitals would not be overloaded. Today, there's been another riot of corona in our home care centers. This is a matter of great concern to me. What are we gonna do about the hospitals? Are we gonna let our old people die back in their diapers in the residential care centers? Are we going to reserve the hospitals for our people from the many residential centers? For example, I already have four residential care centres in my own municipality. Are there any hospital quotas reserved for your own people? What will you do with the distribution of the number of patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a very serious situation, much more serious than last week, more serious than in the Netherlands and France. In such circumstances one must take action, but not improvise. We must seek maximum support from all governments, across the borders of parties and majority and opposition, and act in solidarity. We are all looking at this very carefully. The Consultative Committee will meet tomorrow, in which the various governments sit together, and we will take the necessary decisions. I am not making announcement policy and will not say anything about it. However, I would like to say that nobody is guilty of the virus, but that the approach is the responsibility of everyone. I can tell you what will lead us to make decisions. We want to keep the schools open for the children. We want to make sure that the companies can keep running and that people don't lose their jobs. We want to make sure that our health care doesn't capse. For example, cancer patients should be able to be cared for without a waste of time. If someone has to undergo a major operation that has nothing to do with COVID-19, then that operation should be able to take place without wasting time. That is a very serious concern today. The virus is unjust. The measures will never be fair. The greatest injustice, however, is that sick people would not be cared for in time; that would be the greatest injustice. I believe that we will all be able to prevent this. What else will lead us? The virus is our enemy, but isolation and loneliness of people is also an enemy. We must therefore ensure that strong policies with strong measures do not lead to more loneliness and isolation in days that are getting shorter and darker. Our measures must take this as a guiding principle. To this end, everyone, at all levels, will have to contribute. Several important concrete and important questions have been asked. First, I'd like to discuss the testing strategy. With regard to the testing strategy, our government commissioner, Pedro Facon, has already taken an important initiative on Monday. He launched a task force, first informally with experts in testing. I attended the first meeting on Monday – personally but modestly because I'm not an expert. I wanted to understand better. It's quite complicated. It is a combination of science – with its uncertainties – and technological and economic problems. But we need to define a new testing strategy. On Tuesday morning, the Interministerial Conference, chaired by Wouter Beke, formalized this task force. Professor Herman Goossens is its president. I'm in constant contact with him. We call each other several times a day. A testing strategy, what is it? It is to define which types of tests, where, in what quantity and in what synergy, taking into account the reality, that is, shortages that exist in international markets. We must therefore choose where to invest our resources. I cannot and do not want to answer the very specific questions that have been asked by Mrs Farih and others about the content of this strategy. What I can tell you is that I asked Professor Goossens to give us a strategy towards the end of the weekend. It is a difficult demand which is conditioned by a series of data which must be available but also be able to analyse. So I'm not quite sure we'll make it, but I asked Professor Goossens to be ready for the end of the weekend. It will be a work day and night but conditioned by the availability of data. I don't know if we can do this, but I want to act transparently. You need to know what we're trying to do. It is a huge work that Professor Goossens and his colleagues must do and I hope they will succeed. As far as rapid tests are concerned, they are obviously part of the battery. We are already preparing the purchase on international markets. There is not yet a precise decision. It's in progress. I'm asking you for a little patience. For the testing strategy as for the strategy in general, there is an urgent need but it is not a question of improvising. It's complicated. There is a need for a coherent strategy that can also reassure healthcare providers and all Belgian citizens. I would like to repeat briefly in Dutch. What's the test strategy? This is to determine which tests will be used where and in what quantities: rapid tests, saliva tests and the classic PCR tests, in which there are also variations in speed. That is absolutely necessary. However, this will have to be done on the basis of what is known about the existing scarcity, for example in the case of reagents, on the international markets. The resources must therefore be properly deployed. I asked Professor Goossens, who I am in daily contact with, to try to define that test strategy by the end of the next weekend. It's demanding of us to ask him. It will also depend on the availability of certain data and on data that we still have to analyse. However, that is what we are trying to achieve. It is urgent, but we must not improvise in this area either. I hope to have a strategy on where, what and how many tests to run at the task force level by the end of the next weekend. We also prepare the purchase by the FAGG of the quick tests. Don't ask me any more details. However, we are working on it. Mrs Farih has quite rightly, but quite rightly, pointed to a number of major concerns that we have: the virus is a megaphone for inequalities in our society. It's an amplifier of a lot of what's crooked and crooked. That indeed requires special action, starting with communication. That effort is great. She also often happens under the waterline. However, I can already tell you that all important information has been translated into thirty different languages, deaf language, simplified language, partial language, pictograms, videos and so on. That material is also available. You can view it yourself on the central information website info-coronavirus.be. It is actively promoted, including by the municipal authorities who also work with it, like the hospitals, the doctors, the associations. They can use it. Cities and municipalities are also committed to it. Don't underestimate what's being done by our mayors, ships and OCMWs. There's a lot going on, but there's more to be done. I agree. It is not easy for young people either. One will only be 17 or 18 years old. The end of school time was already ruined and now the beginning of college or university education is ruined. Damn, damn, that's very difficult. And yet, and yet, we must ask for efforts and, above all, explain them. Indeed, Mrs Farih, there is a health and healthcare gap in our country and it is larger than in other countries. It is remarkable that it is large and larger than in other countries. In the coalition agreement there is a lot of attention to that. I will not say any more about this now, because then we will have a long way to go. This requires an approach on many fronts I also want answers to you, Mr Dedecker. I don't feel like I accused anyone of racism here last week. That'd be gullible. I see a lot of worries. I see these concerns everywhere. I see these concerns in the hospitals, too. I can tell you this: there is a dispersal plan. That is not easy to achieve. I called Pedro Facon last night to ask how we should do this in order to create support for this in hospitals. He's working very hard on that. And the people of my department are working hard on that, too. But one must create a basis for support. One has to create an understanding. There must be solidarity. I want very clear answers to your last concern. No, there are no quotas in health care. No, we do not work with the idea that the age determines whether someone is being cared for or not. No. I believe in the doctors' deontology. I'm old-fashioned. I believe in the oath of Hippocrates. The doctors must decide, in consultation with the people themselves, which care is best given, for everyone, without distinction and therefore not on the basis of simplisms and not on the basis of quotas. I believe in the oath of Hippocrates. I believe our doctors know and apply them. That's what we have to assume. That's part of the story, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u36	Minister, thank you. We know the importance of the debate. I gave you more time than normal. I will therefore also allow Members, in their replies, to use an additional half-minute or one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u37	Minister, I remember one thing very well: the virus is nobody's fault. One important thing I would like to ask you today is to ensure that extra attention is paid to young people and vulnerable target groups. People's health policy should come out of the tap like water and no one in our country should be thirsty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u38	Minister, I thank you for the clarifications on the testing strategy which is urgent but which, as you said, should not be improvised. Many hospitals sound alarm bells: the number of beds, including in intensive care for patients affected by VOCID, continues to increase. Some so-called non-emergency interventions have already had to be deprogrammed with sometimes dramatic consequences for the people concerned. This first wave has taken us all unheeded, but we now know clearly how to stop the virus thanks to the barrier gestures, obviously but not only, through recommendations, consistent and understandable measures by everyone, but also through effective testing and tracing. Responsibility and solidarity are the key words if we want to avoid the worst again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u39	Madam President, Minister, you can give a sermone as a pastor, but that does not remove my concern. I had asked what would happen with regard to the coast and what policy would be taken to safeguard our hospitals. You simply answer that you have faith in the people who have sworn the oath of Hippocrates. I've seen a lot of people here who have sworn "the oath of hypocrite." I was going to ask a second question, but I didn't have time. The question is about the fact that, to talk about hypocritical conditions, there are still 500,000 mouth masks waiting today. Those masks, ordered by the Flemish Community, have still not been tested because there was no sticker on them. Today there is a sticker on it, but the FPS Health Department, which is under your jurisdiction, refuses to do a second investigation to approve them. Minister, I'd love to listen to sermones, but you can't get rid of them with a cross and a holy water tank. I look at actions, not words.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u40	Minister, anti-Flemish racism, that is the only word that is appropriate for what we have seen in Puurs, but also in Waregem, Mechelen, Leuven, Antwerp, everywhere in Flanders. Everywhere, our Flemish youth is terrorized by immigrant crapul. We are now wrongly focusing on Puurs, because those images went viral, but most of the facts of anti-Flemish racism are not shared and do not go viral. They remain silent victims of mass migration. But it's only gonna be your kid, that's gonna be humiliated in one of those movies, that's gonna have to dance while it gets hits and kicks. That's not bullying behavior, dear people, that's anti-Flemish racism. If there were five white young men knocking together a brown or black boy tomorrow, I know, it almost never happens, but if you try to imagine it, it would be national news for days, even international news. Our left-wing politicians wouldn't talk about anything else for weeks. The facts would be severely penalised, because in that situation racism would be invoked as an aggravating motive. When every day the opposite happens again, it remains silent, except for Secretary of State Mahdi, who describes the cause, mass migration, as something positive. He has now come to announce, as far as the symptoms are concerned, that there will be swift justice for minors. However, there are not enough magistrates or sufficient places in the youth institutions and this is not stated in the government agreement. Minister, do you support the announcement or is it just nonsense? Since this is a shared competence, will you consult with your Flemish colleague to implement the fast-track law? Mr Minister, I would like to conclude with a positive message, because these are gloomy times. It rarely happens, but I fully agree with the approach proposed by the Left to tackle structural terror by immigrant young people. On the left, we declare that we need to better guide these young people. Well, I totally agree with that. Let us guide those young people, guide them towards the prison, guide them towards their country of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u41	Mr Van Langenhove, let me be clear in advance: there is no place for senseless violence in our society. The behaviour we have seen is unacceptable. We cannot make the perpetrators, whether they are of age or underage, feel fast enough that they can't. It's up to the police, the courthouse and the court to do that, and that's what happened. Let me review the chronology of the facts in Puurs. They date from Sunday last. On Monday, a day later, a report was filed. On Tuesday morning, the victim was interrogated and six suspects were identified, arrested and interrogated. On Wednesday afternoon at 1.30 p.m., the minors were arraigned before the juvenile court and their strict measures were imposed. In conclusion, in less than 48 hours, six suspects were identified, arrested and imposed measures. I would like to express my thanks to the police, the public prosecutor and the court for that action and for the clear communication. I did not hear that thank you, Mr Van Langenhove. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, action is taking place quickly. Moreover, this speed of action is embedded in the system of juvenile justice, but speed is not the same as a popular tribunal, which you, Mr Van Langenhove, want. Quickly see some footage and then condemn it, that's not the rule of law. In a rule of law, justice is spoken by judges, not by the Minister of Justice, nor by Members of Parliament. That's not my justice, that's not our justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u42	Minister, you come here with very big words about clear communication, about the rule of law and about justice, but be clear: who are the perpetrators? Who exactly is it about? During the Bilzen fire, however, your party colleague and fellow Minister Bart Somers knew very quickly and clearly who the still unknown perpetrators were. He knew how to name them very quickly; he shouted it from the rooftops: it had been the Flemish nationalists! Then what are you waiting for to name the perpetrators now? They are even on video, Minister, and not just in this case. Just look at those hundreds of other films of ethnic violence against defenseless Flemish young people or ask the police officers, whom you are supposed to thank, who turn their backs on you, as you do not even dare to ask who the revolving door criminals are. Go ask the defenseless Flemish girls who no longer dare to go out on the street at night because of whom they no longer dare? That is clear communication, Minister, and you refuse to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u43	Madam President, congratulations. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministerial Decision of 30 June on urgent measures to combat the spread of the COOVID-19 virus is in force throughout the country. Enforcement in the field is carried out by the police. People who fail to comply with the proposed measures will receive a proposal of immediate collection or a pv. For example, in my police area, over the last six months there have been a little over 500 immediate collections or CVs. Many pay immediately, others feel that they did not make a mistake and after a long, detailed appeal procedure they catch up and eventually pay more than 250 euros. The system works well. On 9 October, the College of Attorneys-General sent a new letter setting out three priorities. These are the controls on the wearing of mouth masks on public transport, the strict application of the rules in the catering industry and the training of up to four people. There are still people who break the rules. They must be caught and punished. The time of sensitisation is clearly over. There are also repeaters, people who always knowingly commit the same offence. For example, I know someone who has committed the same offence up to six times. He was also effectively dealt with by the judge. There's been a sentence for those people. We must make them even clearer and give the message more quickly that what they are doing really cannot be done. Minister, do you have an idea of the number of CVs that have been drawn up across the country? How are these pvs being followed? What is your vision for tackling the recidivists?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u44	Madam President, Mr Vandenput, it is of course important to maintain the measures taken. In this context, you referred to the ministerial decision and the letter of the College of Attorneys General. I am also working closely with the Home Secretary and her services. The figures are clear, from April to today 106.119 offenders have been registered. What is striking is that in six months' time, 63% of those files were handled by the Justice Department. In 67.126 cases the file has been dealt with. It is important that there is a system of immediate friendly settlement for this. This means that the police can ask the offender to pay immediately, via a QR code, a payment terminal or the friendly settlement for which one has 15 days. This has now been applied 27,000 times, which is a good thing because it reduces the burden of paperwork for the Justice Department and prevents the offender from getting a criminal record. As far as recidivism is concerned, a second infringement is brought before the court immediately. The existing system works very well because by linking databases, police officers in the field can immediately identify who has already received a PV. They will no longer get a friendly settlement but will be subpoenaed immediately before the police court. By the way, we have appointed a coronamagistraat at each of the parishes to ensure the smooth running of the proceedings, and thematic hearings are organised at the police courts to deal with these dossiers. The conclusion is that each infringement is followed up. The Justice Department doesn't let anything go.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u45	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the clear answer and for the figures. It is impressive to hear that 63% of the cases have already been dealt with in the last six months, and the rest is therefore pending. Minister, you did well, it is important that recidivists are dealt with. I'm glad to hear that in the event of a second infringement, they should be brought to justice immediately. That is swift and appropriate action. A meeting of the Consultative Committee will take place tomorrow. Maybe new measures are coming our way. We must all be aware that we must all follow these measures. I really hope that the population will do so in the coming weeks, because the figures are dramatic, and that the police will have to produce far fewer minutes and the judges will have to deal with far fewer cases. I'm really counting on people's civic spirit to do all that together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u46	Madam President, thank you and I wish you every success in your new duties. Minister, you know that this crisis is impacting many sectors that are in great pain: the Horeca sector, businesses, cultural actors. I am not going to mention all the others, the tour operators who are almost never mentioned and yet close to agony. There are others who are not only in great difficulty but are literally dying! They're the actors in the event. It's the carnivals. It's the caterers. These are the organizers of fairs, so many professions, not to mention the dencing enthusiasts who are dying and who, desperately for months, have been waiting for a signal from this government, as they have expected from the precedent also in which you were already minister and even deputy prime minister. You finally met them. Of course, a small Facebook photo doesn't eat bread, but as far as they're concerned, they still find it difficult today to see the slightest perspective. All festivals are canceled. All receptions are cancelled. We're back more beautiful. It was not the few thousand euros of aid that were granted, many months ago, when it was thought that the crisis would last only a few weeks, which would be able to help them. So please, Minister, now that with pride you seem to want to take on the duties of your predecessor and nevertheless colleague and friend, bring the demonstration that you will be able to be more effective than he! He was unable to respond to this issue. Let us beware that you will be able to do so otherwise than by rejecting the aid that we proposed no later than yesterday, that the government will adopt EUR 15 million for the months of November and December in the overall budget outline that the former Budget Minister is familiar with. It's a drop of water, but for this area, it's a drop of water that will keep it alive! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u47	Madam President, Minister, you will understand, the event and the show are important, but not in politics. Everyone knows that the sector is in crisis, and I know it all the more because with friends, I am an event organizer. We know that this sector suffers, but there is not only the event sector, there is also the sector of wedding organizers, the animation sector. We also know that there are a whole series of professions around the show, events. There are, among other things, assemblers, technicians, facilitators. This represents 80,000 jobs directly or indirectly concerned. Graydon announced that with the loss of 85% of their turnover and, for some, 100% of their turnover, the risk of bankruptcy was significant. It is indeed a question of 30 % possible bankruptcies before the end of the year. We also know that the crisis will extend throughout 2020 and that it will continue in 2021 since a whole series of shows have already been cancelled. You've met the area you know well and you're paying attention to. The Federation also spoke on behalf of a wide range of organizers. It is now important to know what you intend to do. How will federal aid be linked with the aid of the Communities and the Regions which have already made efforts to maintain subsidies in particular? Is it essential that we help this sector move this way? Apart from any sticky effects, minister, I would like to know what you are planning to do to help him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure you, Mr Prévot, and my predecessor, that I am particularly committed to supporting all the economic actors in our country during this major crisis. We are going through an unprecedented crisis, a crisis that continues to have very serious consequences for the self-employed, the companies of our country, but also for those who work there. You have talked about it, but I like to quote them: the event sector, travel agencies, the hotel sector especially in the big cities, the Horeca suffers particularly. On 13 October, I met with several actors in these sectors, namely the Fédération des Métiers de l'Événementiel (FDME), the Union Professionnel des Traiteurs (UPT), the Belgian Federation of Marriage Providers (FBPM), and representatives of the Alliance of Belgian Federations of Events, which brings together a number of other associations (ABEF). As you can hear from the list of these elements, the event sector is very diverse, by the nature of the activities it organizes. These include private events for individuals, such as wedding parties, business seminars, concerts and festivals for the cultural sector. It normally employs almost 80,000 workers. There are 40,000 employees and 40,000 other various articles of association. It is therefore a very diverse sector. At this meeting, we discussed this difficult time and the support measures that needed to be taken. As a first step, we agreed on the need to extend the current aid measures taken during the crisis. So I can already announce the extension of a whole series of measures, including the bridge right of resumption, which ends on 31 October. It will be extended until December. I will be submitting these proposals to the government very soon. All this will be done soon. That was one of their main demands. Secondly, and this is more difficult to understand, and if more stringent measures are to be taken in the near future, I have committed myself to finding solutions for this sector, which will be affected for some time - we must not fool ourselves. Organizing a show or event takes time, sometimes several months. If action is to be taken in the near future, we will need to adopt additional support measures to allow this sector to spend the winter. This is a hibernation plan that we should put in place for this specific sector which could not bear to remain without income during this period. This hibernation plan will have to intervene on fixed costs. We're thinking about rents, investment loans. As you know, in this country it is important, in order to be able to take specific measures, to coordinate one another. Indeed, some of the issues that the sector is asking to deal with do not necessarily depend on the federal government, but sometimes on the regions. As far as I am concerned, I will fight to ensure that these aid measures meet the sector's expectations. I would ask that coordination with the federated entities be established through an ICD, so that we can act on the full spectrum of the demands that have been made by the sector. Since not all components are federal, each entity will have to assume its responsibilities. We measure how difficult the current period is for our self-employed and businesses, who are hit hard by health measures and the health crisis. They are at the heart of our economy and need our support more than ever. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that I will stand by them to help them through the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u49	Your answer, Minister, offers little concrete perspective: "We will find solutions and make coordination." We've been telling them the same thing for months! You managed billions and billions of euros when you were budget minister. Yesterday, the CDH tabled an amendment offering a breath of EUR 15 million - that's little compared to the billions of the state budget - to support this 'hibernation', as you called it, in November and December. But the Vivaldi majority rejected it. I will come back to table this amendment in plenary, hoping that you will have reason again, because the sector is dying. Promise him an enchanting spring in the form of tax concessions, for example, if it is not even certain to pass this year's course, that is of little interest. Extending the bridge right is very well - as a bill I tabled required - but please activate the temporary "coronavirus" unemployment for even longer. They also expect such a measure. Be at the rendezvous of results, and not just intentions!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u50	Minister, you heard us. It is fundamental, as is the case for the status of artists, that the federal and regional levels should be articulated. We must propose concrete measures, because it is absolutely necessary to move on. It is certain that the coming months will also be difficult. Maintaining bridge law and economic unemployment is, of course, a fundamental basis. It is important that this "hibernation" fund can help these companies survive. Organizers as spectators, we are all convinced of this need, because this sector brings joy and pleasure and lightens the lives of all. Minister, we will help you - as we have done for the status of artists - and we are counting on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u51	Madam President, I have just noticed from Mr Prévot's question that after ten seconds of time the micro has already been eliminated. We just had a lecture from a professor who passed six minutes. You have tolerated that, while a colleague who goes ten seconds past his time already sees his micro disabled. May I ask you to take a more accurate look at that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u52	I totally understand. I had indicated earlier, in the presentation by the Minister of Health, in view of the interest of the entire assembly, that we had authorized an overrun of speaking time, which was also allowed for Members in their reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u53	Mr. Secretary, the corona virus is on its way. The numbers are really disturbing. Measures are on the table. One of the crucial elements to combat the virus is the proper mapping of the infections. We all know that a good contact search is essential. Well, for a good two weeks, we've had a corona app downloaded over a million times. In this way, we reach about 10% of the population. That's good, but it can and must be much better. We see that in Germany and Switzerland, 20% of the population use such an app. In Ireland, even 40%. However, the more we use the app, the better it works and the more efficient and effective it becomes. Of course, we also ask ourselves about privacy. Privacy must be guaranteed. That's why it took a lot of time to develop the app. An independent audit has been carried out and our privacy watchdog, the GBA, has also shone its light several times. As a result, there is a lot of praise for the app among the experts in the privacy world. We can put our trust in that app. That confidence is essential. In that respect, the statements of the President of Flemish Interest this week were objectionable. He claimed that he would not install the app himself because he has no confidence in the Belgian State. Well, that's a statement that's not just a little flat-headed populist, and it's for party strategic purposes, that's also a statement that plays with people's health. I have one brief pertinent question for you. Can you confirm that privacy is guaranteed with our corona app?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u54	Madam President, Minister, our President has indeed said that he will not install the Corona app. He said that because of the government's chunk trail regarding the corona approach. That approach doesn't inspire confidence. He said he's not gonna install that app personally. Everyone is free to decide whether or not to install a non-compulsory app. Contrary to what is sometimes eagerly claimed, we have not called on people not to install this app. We are and remain a party of law and order, especially in these uncertain times. We have always called for the mandatory measures to be complied with, even if we do not always agree with them. That position doesn't change anything. Corona is a serious threat that must be combated in a serious way. Minister, I have submitted several questions about the company that developed the app. There is little confidence in the fact that these questions have been dismissed without a proper answer. Our distrust doesn't come out of the sky either. During the hearings on the app, Mr Jaak Raes, on behalf of State Security, pointed to the major risks of hacking and espionage vulnerability. Professor Degrave refused to believe that a corona app could work completely independently from the other government databases. It is up to the government and this Parliament to protect our people not only from the pandemic but also from possible breaches of privacy. When installing the app, access to GPS location data was originally requested, while the app should not use it? How did this happen? What guarantees are there that the app matches the public source code? How will you prevent, for example, a malicious source code from being distributed after updates? What guarantee does the citizen have that privacy will not be compromised now and in the future if he uses this app?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u55	I give the floor to Minister Clarinval, who will answer in the place of Secretary of State Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u56	Madam President, Mr Matheï and Mr Gilissen, I will give you the answers of Secretary of State Michel to your questions. The app only uses bluetooth low energy to exchange anonymous codes between smartphones that are close to each other. The app does not use location data or even personal data. The app's source code is open source and can be analyzed by anyone. So the app doesn't ask for access to location data. On some devices, when Bluetooth is activated, a notification that refers to the possible use of location data appears, but the Coronalert app does not use it. The link to the source code is available on paper (https://coronalert.be/en/community/). The published source code is of course the source code used. The app has been the subject of a data protection impact assessment submitted to the Data Protection Authority for an opinion. The app has been audited by an independent specialist company. Both the data protection impact assessment and the audit report, together with many other information on the information security measures taken, are available on the website (https://coronalert.be/en/how-we-we-protect-your-privacy/). No unnoticed updates of the app can be made by unauthorized persons, as the necessary information security measures have been taken to this end. If significant adjustments are made to the app, a follow-up information security audit is possible. Given that the app only uses anonymous data, it is never possible to determine who is at which location, so monitoring of users is not possible. It is also prohibited by law to grant the user any advantage or disadvantage on the basis of the use of the app. The use of the app is voluntary. I do call on everyone to install it, because it can make an important contribution to controlling the propagation of the virus. So far, the answers of Secretary of State Michel, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u57	Minister, thank you and the Secretary of State for the answer. Privacy is guaranteed in this app. People can trust that. I would like to call on everyone to actually install that app. The more people install it, the more effective the app is. In this deep health crisis there is absolutely no room for fake news. I'm looking again at the Flemish Interest. The app certainly guarantees privacy. If you want to confuse that, there is no point. It's even reprehensible. Please don't play political games with the corona app. Real leaders install that app and set an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Everyone is free to decide whether or not to install the app. I would like to say to all those who are now pointing the finger at the Flemish Interest and to our President that it is not the distrust in the Corona app that caused ten thousand deaths. It was the traditional parties who first took the corona virus for a flu, who destroyed the strategic stock of mouth masks, who could not provide the care personnel with test and protection material, which could not even communicate properly. The new government is no better. More than 1.5 million useful mouth masks will not be re-approved. There is no plan yet to distribute vaccines. We do not even have a plan to order rapid tests yet, whereas our neighbouring countries are doing so massively. There should not even be a proper committee of inquiry to find out all this. Do you think that way, with or without an app, you create confidence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u59	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I had wished to put this question to the Prime Minister and/or the Minister for Foreign Affairs, since the circumstances required our meeting to take place immediately before the start of the European Council. Having said that, I trust you to pass on the request that will be made. On 27 September, conflicts resumed in Nagorny Karabakh. Bombardments have taken place. They continue despite all the initiatives taken by each other to attempt a ceasefire between the parties. We cannot continue to accept ever-increasing bombings that strike civilian populations in those parts of the world. That is why I intended to question the Prime Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs in order to know whether he was in the government's intention to table a strong and strong inquiry or wish on the table of the European Council to ensure that the European Union took an initiative to support, encourage and support the various initiatives taken by each other in order to put an end to these bombings, which caused huge civilian casualties, women and children. This question remains. We hope that an initiative will be taken, and that the answer will be given at the next meeting of the Committee of Opinions on European issues, which is scheduled soon and which I have asked for. We could also be actors at the level of the United Nations Security Council, as we are still sitting there until the end of the year. We could put this issue on the table of the Security Council, as we are likely to do through a resolution that will be discussed in our Assembly. But resolutions take time, and here there is an urgent need. That is the reason for this urgent topical issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u60	Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased to meet you for the first time in the hemisphere, so let me ask you that I go a long way beyond your powers. You may replace the Prime Minister immediately. That's a huge promotion in a short time. However, the issue that brings us together does not give rise to jokes. We may have the impression that the Caucasus is far from us, but we must realise, in the light of everything that is happening to us, that there has been a bloody conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan over the last few weeks, with many civilian casualties. However, I would like to take into account not only the small detail, but also the fact that France is quite clear when it comes to the fact that Turkey is not only interfering in this matter, but would also be working for foreign fighters. This means that the conflict will have a particularly nasty international dimension. I think that when we say foreign fighters, we all imagine things that we do not like, let alone to confront the Armenian people. Hence my question to what extent, as a member of the Security Council, for two months to come, we think we can make a contribution to de-escalating the conflict. If I may add a question, the tweet "Exchange views on bilateral cooperation: the new act of Armenian aggression against Azerbaijan was brought to the attention of the ambassador" was licked by our embassy in Baku. I have serious questions about the fact that our embassy is retweeting that kind of language and I would like to hear what the explanation is for that particularly reprehensible tweeting behavior.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u61	Madam President, I will answer the question on behalf of the Prime Minister. Mr Flahaut, Mijnheer De Roover, after more than two weeks of confrontation, a meeting between the Russian, Armenian and Azerbaijani Foreign Ministers was held in Moscow on 9 October. After lengthy discussions, the parties agreed, on the one hand, to a cease-fire from 10 October 2020 and, on the other hand, to relaunch negotiations at the level of the Minsk Group. Noting the immediate violation of the ceasefire, on 13 October the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group reminded the belligerents of the obligations of the agreement, so far in vain. At the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council on 12 October, the Member States, including Belgium represented by Ms Wilmès, welcomed the efforts made by the Minsk Group and the European support for the ceasefire and the return to the negotiating table. It is more important than ever that the entire international community continue to support the efforts of the Minsk Group in convening the two parties to implement the ceasefire negotiated in Moscow. This is also the action of Belgium! In this connection, I should like to mention that during her first telephone interview with her Turkish counterpart, Mr Mevlut Cavusoglu, yesterday afternoon, Minister Wilmès expressed our country's concern about the situation on the ground and also indicated that an unconditional agreement on the speedy implementation of a ceasefire is indispensable. I will also pass on to the Prime Minister the comments on what Belgium could possibly do through the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u62	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I did not voluntarily enter the elements of the conflict. What was essential today was to give a signal that the Belgian Parliament is not distracted from what is happening and its willingness to ensure that the government and its main representatives at the European Council support the steps that have been taken to contribute a little to peace, to return to the cessation of the bombings and, above all, to reassure the Armenian families in Belgium and throughout the world of our commitment to peace in this newly reborn conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u63	Madam Secretary of State, I hope that in all possible areas Belgium will impress the accelerator in this matter, in which civilian casualties fall, as I indicated. However, I will continue to have a number of problems. The Armenia-Turkey dossier always brings back very horrible memories. You must assess the sensitivity of the Armenian community sufficiently, when Turkey, even with foreign fighters, is interfering in the matter. However, may I add the following? You did not answer the question in question, perhaps because you did not expect it. We have a political post in Baku, which talks about Armenian aggression. I expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs to give us some information on the reasoning behind this and on what inspired those involved to designate Armenia as an aggressor in an official communication from the Belgian authorities. I hope that the government will give me a decent answer, which I have not received today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u64	Madam President, first of all, I wish you all the best for your future mission at the perch of this noble assembly, and I also wish Mrs De Bleeker all the best for her mission. As you will understand, Mrs De Bleeker, the question I am asking you was addressed to the Prime Minister who is currently meeting at the European Council. Since the withdrawal agreement of 31 January 2020, the United Kingdom is no longer a member of the European Union. Since then, intense and difficult negotiations have taken place between the representatives of the two parties in order to reach an agreement on the nature of the new relationship between the two entities. In this context, issues related to a trade agreement must be resolved, but also rules in areas such as access to fisheries – this is important for our fishermen – the regulation of medicines, safety cooperation to name but a few. The European Council is currently taking stock of the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and the state of play of the negotiations between the Union and the United Kingdom. Our Prime Minister is debating with his counterparts all the scenarios that may occur after January 1, 2021. Madam Secretary of State, on 31 December 2020 is approaching and important obstacles remain in reality. However, an agreement should be completed around 1 November 2020 to enable its optimal implementation from 1 January 2020. What position will Belgium stand in view of the importance to our economy of maintaining strong ties with the United Kingdom? More specifically, fishing rights remain, in our view, a matter that needs our full attention. EU-based crews want to keep their access to British waters, while the United Kingdom, for its part, wants to restrict this access but continues to sell its fish on the European market. On this point, what are the demands of our country? Finally, our former prime ministers have already taken a number of steps to protect ourselves from the effects of a non-agreement, a no deal, which would mean an exit from the United Kingdom from the single market and the customs union. Do you consider that additional measures are still needed before 31 December?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u65	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question was originally addressed to the Prime Minister, but I am glad to be able to put it to you because you have the most experience of all government members at European level. One of the most important issues at the European summit today and tomorrow is undoubtedly the Brexit. You will agree with me that the impact of a hard Brexit will be great: a possible decline in our GDP by 2.35 %, 42,000 jobs of which 28,000 in Flanders. The impact on the Länder will be very large. Mr De Maegd has already referred to one of the major points on the table: fisheries, which is an exclusive competence of the Länder. In the coalition agreement, I see that there will be a federalism of cooperation on foreign policy, but this will be followed immediately by 'the pragmatism that will prevail here in the interests of a strong defence of interests'. That is very vague, like more in the coalition agreement. Do you recognise that Brexit will have a very large impact on the Länder and also the importance of having them sit at the table when talking about their future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u66	Mrs Van Bossuyt, Mr De Maegd, here too I give the answer prepared by the Prime Minister. I will, of course, take the additional questions with me and I am sure they will be dealt with in the future. The Internal Market Act, passed by the British Parliament, constitutes a violation of one of the protocols to the United Kingdom's withdrawal treaty from the European Union, which entered into force on 1 February. As a result, the Union decided to put the United Kingdom on notice. Negotiations on a partnership treaty have progressed over the past few months on a number of technical topics, but no final agreements have yet been reached. Indeed, the European Union is working towards a comprehensive treaty, which governs all our relations, as this would ensure the balance and coherence of the whole. Maintaining this goal requires maintaining parallel progress on all thematic issues. However, negotiations focus on the fundamental issue of future economic relations, namely the relationship between very extensive market access, guarantees for fair competition and an adequate system for the governance of the Treaty. A treaty on economic trade must also include a satisfactory agreement on fisheries, as you pointed out. In this context, the European Council will have the opportunity to hear from the negotiator of the European Union on the above-mentioned issues and the options it envisages in order to reach a treaty by 31 December which can be implemented as from 1 January. Belgium is committed to an ambitious treaty between the EU and the United Kingdom, but not at any cost. The United Kingdom must be treated consistently as the third country to the European Union, which it wanted to become itself. The transitional period introduced by the withdrawal treaty maintains a status quo in economic and administrative relations between the Member States and the United Kingdom until midnight on 31 December. The United Kingdom has chosen to leave the internal market and the customs union at that time. A partnership agreement will not change that, even if it can create a free trade area without quotas and tariffs. The Member States must continue to prepare for a major break in relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which is also the result of the negotiations on that Partnership Treaty. Today's European Council will take stock of the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and the state of play in the negotiations. Leaders will discuss preparatory work for all scenarios that may occur after 1 January 2021, as the transition period expires at the end of 2020. That was the Prime Minister's answer. Of course, there will be many debates on this in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u67	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Mrs De Bleeker, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear: when one of the parents decides to leave a couple, or there is a divorce amicable – and that is so much better for the children – or one of the two tries to get the silverware, the car, the bicycles and almost everything to his advantage. In this case, it would be the no deal scenario. It must be said that the British play a nebulous, even dangerous, game in the Brexit's twisted dossier. They cannot rightly claim butter, butter money and smile from the 27 Member States. In our view, Belgium must defend our interests, like those of the Union, those of our fishermen, of our pharmaceutical industry, of our companies which, in addition to VOCID-19, will inevitably be affected by Brexit. A year ago, we were talking about the figure of 42,000 job losses in our country. We are, of course, in favour of a negotiated exit, but time is running out, since it will take two months to translate a possible agreement into the various European legislations. The clock's ticking. The deadline is early November. Enough is enough, as they say in London. I would like to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for passing this message to the Prime Minister and overseas at this European Summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u68	Madam Secretary of State, I am a little disappointed that you did not answer my question. In practice, the Belgian delegation will be made up exclusively of federal representatives. In practice, cooperation federalism will be implemented by this purple-green government. Federally swings the stick and the states are allowed to nod. More than that, federal will even decide on state powers. That is why I would very much like to put a question to the Flemish government parties. Unfortunately, there are not so many representatives here because of corona. Do you think it is normal for a French-speaking government to decide on matters that are so important to Flanders, to Flemish SMEs and Flemish employees? The N-VA doesn't think that's normal. We will stand up for the interests of all the Flemings, all the Flemings who work, save and undertake, all the way to the European negotiating table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u69	End of oral questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u70	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 619: Leen Dierick, Jef Van den Bergh, Franky Demon, Steven Matheï, Kathleen Verhelst, Michael Freilich Michael Freilich. [[-]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Gilles Vanden Burre and Florence Reuter, referred to their written report. Colleagues, I would like to give you a practical clarification. Given the measures related to VOCID-19, we ask you to stay on your benches for speaking. In fact, unlike the topical questions where you can come to the gallery, for the discussion of the texts, we suggest that you stay in your place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u72	That is a pity, Madam President, because I have never had the opportunity to speak to my colleagues, but I am doing so on my couch. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal on basic banking services before us today, it will be an important day for the many companies that have not had the opportunity in recent years to open or close a bank account without having the opportunity to do anything about it. However, the problem was not new, but it has been dragging on for eight years and the many discussions with the various banks and the banking federation have led to nothing. The option of resolving the problem through legislation was not our first option, and I regret that the various attempts at negotiation, first by the affected sectors themselves and then by former Minister of Work Kris Peeters, have failed. The law obliges every company in our country to hold a bank account and register in the FBO, otherwise it is not in accordance with the law. We cannot leave the many companies that do not have a bank account today in the cold. Once again, it is a pity that it has not been possible to work out a solution in consultation with the banks. This has now been done in the form of Mrs Dierick's bill, which we support, because many companies have been excluded from banking services from entire sectors from one day to the next. What started with the diamond sector has quickly expanded to other sectors and companies, such as the companies in bitcoins, the football sector, people who were declared bankrupt and want to start over and today even jewellers. Jewelry often contains diamonds and so many banks no longer want to cooperate with jewellers. Banks also want to get rid of customers who want money to come from Africa as soon as possible, because they see a risk. That can't be the intention. The banks have opposed this proposal, which I regret. During the hearing we asked Febelfin what the banks themselves proposed. Febelfin in any case rejected the proposal on the basic banking service with my proposal linked to it. Nor did she see a direct negotiation with the sector with a view to a gentlemen's agreement. For Febelfin, everything can stay the way it is and everything is fine. Well, that's definitely not the point. The banks argue that, with the adoption of the text, Parliament will open the door to all the crooked companies in Europe, which will open an account in our country. That's quatsch, of course. We see that in France, where the basic banking service for companies already exists, this was anything but the case. In addition, we have built an extra bolt into the legal text that allows the CFI to give an opinion at the request of banks if a bank is not sure whether a company is 100% purely on its own. I have also tabled a legislative proposal along the same lines and finally it was inserted as an amendment and Article 9. What's it about? It is not just about the basic banking service but about the motivational obligation for regular banking matters. Today, a bank can cancel an account without adding any motivation to it. It's very easy for a bank. But imagine that a company is okay with all the rules and taxes, never came into contact with the court and suddenly gets a letter in which the bank informs the manager of its decision that it will close the account without giving up any motivation, adding that it has 30 days to withdraw the money from the account. We have received emails from people from different sectors, for example a company from Ghent that does import and export computer chips, and they testify that such a thing feels like a thunderstorm in the clear sky. There's no way out of here. To ensure that banks cannot abuse their position, the proposal was to give the reason and give the account holders 30 days to replicate. I therefore regret that the banks have distributed all kinds of misleading information about this amendment in the press, as if this were contrary to anti-money laundering legislation. On the contrary, there is today a law that must counter tipping off, which means that if the bank knows of an investigation or if it has itself investigated a particular transaction, it is forbidden for the institution to inform the customer. Today, however, the opposite is happening. A bank sees a transaction that it considers suspicious and will report it to the CFI, but very often also automatically closes the account. If a crooked entrepreneur gets a letter in a transaction that can't be accepted to report that he has 30 days to close his account, then of course he knows what time it is. People at the parquet say they have a problem with that. There's a report coming in to the CFI that opens an investigation. This shows that there is an effective problem, but in the meantime the account in question has already been closed. The problem with tipping off is thus solved in a very devious way by the banks by informing an account holder that the account will be closed. My bill was intended to make sure this couldn't happen again. On the one hand, we don't give crooked entrepreneurs a chance to get rid of the money, and on the other hand, we give bona fide traders the reason why their accounts are closed. I understand it will take some time to convince everyone of this part of the bill anyway. There will also be an amendment today, partly because the National Bank of Belgium has some technical questions. I regret that, but we will support the legislative proposal as a whole. Two elements are important here. The first element is a basic banking service for companies that do not have a bank account today. We are going to find a solution to that. There will be. The second element is that we do not want the people who do have an account today to be thrown into the street overnight. That'll be another day. In any case, I would like to thank all the Members, starting with Mrs Dierick, who took the initiative to bring this important law to a successful conclusion. I would also like to thank the other colleagues across party boundaries, who always had the institution to look for solutions in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us today is a legislative proposal that has evolved from a basic text to a legislative text with gradually more guarantees. We do know a lot of stories. Mr Freilich has just referred to banking exclusion of self-employed and entrepreneurs. Colleagues, it is true that similar legislation has been in place for a long time for consumers, a basic banking service for consumers. So there's definitely something to say for this bill. There has indeed been consultation between, on the one hand, various sectors and, on the other hand, the banks, in order to find certain solutions, inter alia, on transparency. Those conversations have failed. I understand that, in such a case, the legislator must resolve this. Indeed, it is particularly bad that certain entrepreneurs cannot obtain a bank account and that whole sectors are excluded because they belong to a particular sector. We do not believe that this is correct. Each customer must be assessed individually. It is also important that banks close one-sided accounts without any justification, which is also happening to many private customers today. Customers will then simply receive a letter on the bus that serves as a letter of termination, with the intention of transferring all funds to another bank within 30 days. For us, that is an absolute disgrace and cannot be the intention. Although, of course, the termination of accounts from a banking point of view may be entirely legitimate or justified, transparency is absolutely important. I think every customer has the right to know why his or her accounts are cancelled. Many entrepreneurs, including those I come into contact with myself, may sometimes ask why a bank account is cancelled. Does it have anything to do with suspicious transactions? This is not known because there is no transparency about it. Today, there are still other reasons why banks can still convince banks to cancel accounts. I am thinking, for example, of the question of how interesting a customer portfolio is. Banking customers who only have money in their accounts and take on few other services from their banks are no longer interesting, especially now that banks are punished by the European Union if they keep too much money in their accounts. Whether or not someone is a good customer determines whether or not they are interesting. In this sense, Mr Freilich's amendment also gave us a positive vote in committee. We have therefore absolutely supported that amendment. By the way, that gave us an extra reason to go along with the whole bill. We were initially sceptical about this bill. Colleagues who have followed the discussions in committee know that we had some reasons for doing so. First of all, the hearing, in which Febelfin was also invited, discussed the liability of banks. Banks must always be able to demonstrate a traceability of all the financial resources that go over the accounts. If the banks are unable to do so or if it later turns out that it is about money that has not been obtained in a fresh way, then there are a lot of fairly heavy fines attached to it, which, of course, is also linked to the reputation of banks. We therefore initially found it contradictory to impose obligations on banks in this sense. On the one hand, we must ensure that entrepreneurs are able to obtain the banking services to which they are entitled, and on the other hand, we must not impose additional penalties on banks. That basic service, however well intended, with the risk of money laundering was an important element in the debate for us. I do not agree with Mr Freilich who says that if we adopt such a law, additional accounts will not necessarily be opened and terrorist money will end up with us. So I do not agree with the colleague. We must prevent terrorist money from abroad from coming to us through loopholes to launder it here. That will always be difficult for the Flemish interest. Legislation is created on the one hand because several sectors and banks have not been able to get out of it. On the other hand, the lobby has also done a lot of work. I am looking at the proposers. For every legislative proposal in this House, we must always be careful and vigilant about lobbying. Should we be compassionate with the banks? I say no to that very clearly. They are all too happy to hide behind the concept of professional secrecy which they sometimes dare to interpret fairly widely. Do we want to mess with the banking secret? Definitely not. That must be very clear. However, when I look at the hearings in the Committee on Finance, important issues were raised. I am thinking, for example, of Dexia, which at the time refused to share information on suspicious transactions relating to drug money from Venezuela. We have also found that ING's control system was rather weak, because it was more of a correspondent bank. I can go on like this for a while. It must be said, ladies and gentlemen, that there is still a lot of money being laundered today. There are very few confiscations. The fines are mild. These issues will also have to be followed, simultaneously with legislation like this. We cannot rely solely on the traceability and responsibility of financial institutions. In addition, there is also a lack of investigators in the financial sector for money laundering files. At the federal prosecutor's office, terrorism, coupled with money laundering, was a priority, but today these people are also being deployed on other matters. I think it is particularly important, ladies and gentlemen, that sufficient expertise is being built up against money laundering and that it remains a challenge in the future. I find it particularly strange that the National Bank, which is supposed to act as a kind of sanctioning body vis-à-vis the banks, has so far refused to name and name banks, if they are subject to sanctions or if a friendly settlement is reached with them. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the law before us today, there is still a lot of work to be done. Is this law perfect? Probably not. We will have to continue to use anti-money laundering measures, but of course we understand the need for this bill. We understand that many entrepreneurs today are unjustly excluded from banking services. Some bills just get canceled without motivation. Many amendments were adopted in committee which have improved the text in a positive way. This has ensured that, despite our previously foreseen negative vote, we will still vote in favour of the legislative proposal. We are only asking for a timely evaluation of this law. In view of the concerns that we have expressed both in committee and today, this evaluation is necessary. It has to be done. We shall therefore be voting in favour of this proposal today, provided that the comments made are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis is a special and very difficult situation. She has a very big impact on our health, our social contacts and also our economy. Both small self-employed and large enterprises need to adapt. Today, they are unexpectedly confronted with major new challenges. It is quite right that all our attention should go to them in the coming weeks. Unfortunately, there are also companies that come into trouble independently of the corona crisis. We in Parliament must also be aware of this, and we must also seek solutions to this. As my fellow Members have already said, several companies are faced today with the fact that they cannot open a new bank account or the fact that their bank account which they have had for years is suddenly cancelled by their bank. Over the past few weeks and months I have heard many stories about this and received emails about it. To be honest, it was very difficult for me to imagine that some companies and sectors would have to struggle to obtain or retain a bank account number. Having a bank account is, however, a necessity and even an obligation in Belgium to be able and able to undertake. Without a bank account one cannot be an entrepreneur here. However, this reality exists in many sectors. It is not just individual, exceptional cases, but certain sectors are highlighted here and have difficulties in meeting these banking conditions. These practices are increasingly reflected in the recent trend of de-risking used by banks. The Committee on the Panama Papers of previous legislature recommended that the government and supervisors should take appropriate measures to encourage financial institutions to refuse customers only on the basis of individual risk analysis or justified reasons. Banks should not therefore exclude entire sectors or target entire sectors, it should be based on individual risk analyses. As a result of the hearings we have had, we have the strong suspicion that this is not always the case. Colleagues, the obligation to have a bank account to be allowed to enter into in Belgium must, of course, remain. We are convinced that a bank account ensures greater transparency and that this network is the prime means of investigation in the fight against money laundering and the financing of criminal activities. Electronic banking can be traced at any time. That must not, of course, be touched. An entrepreneur must be able to obtain and retain a bank account. With the bill before us today, we are offering an easy solution. There is already a well-functioning basic banking service for consumers, but this has not yet been the case for companies. On the basis of this example and the example of France, this bill was drafted to provide a basic banking service for companies. The bill is quite simple. If a company is established in Belgium and has been refused at least three times by a bank for the minimum payment services, it may be entitled to a basic banking service. After three refusals, the undertaking may apply for that basic banking service. That basic banking service shall not be offered automatically for the sake of clarity. The company must, however, first take the initiative itself by first contacting some banks for the acquisition of a bank account. Only after three refusals can the basic banking service be used. In the stories that reached me from different entrepreneurs, there was often also the remark or the justified frustration or despair that they did not get any explanation, motivation or any reason why their bank account was refused or why it was suddenly stopped. They had no idea why. In order to meet this requirement, we require that any refusal is also explicitly and in writing justified within ten working days, unless this is contrary to the anti-money laundering law. That is a very important clause which I would like to emphasise. Reasons for refusal are important. However, CD&V is not in favour of including a general obligation to state reasons as set out in Mr Freilich's amendment. We have already expressed that concern. We have therefore also tabled a new amendment to delete the general obligation to state reasons. We are convinced that this should be considered outside the scope of this bill. This can certainly also be mentioned in the further evaluation of this legislative proposal. We discussed this bill several times in the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda. At the outset, many of you had rightly expressed concern that this proposal would not go against anti-money laundering legislation. I was therefore very pleased and reassured that the CFI and the National Bank clearly indicated at the hearing that this bill is indeed compatible with the anti-money laundering law. This proposal still leaves the possibility for banks to refuse a company at any time or to terminate the basic banking service when it appears that the company is carrying out transactions contrary to anti-money laundering legislation. Finally, I have tabled a second amendment to delete the reporting and reporting obligations of the National Bank of Belgium. We had received a letter from the NBB pointing out that this would impose a new task on it and that an opinion should therefore also be requested from the ECB. By tabling this amendment, that is no longer necessary. Colleagues, we are taking an important step with this bill. It may not be a perfect step, which is why we immediately included an evaluation in the legislative proposal, an evaluation to be made one year after its entry into force. This gives us the opportunity to carefully assess the effects of this and to adjust it if necessary. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We have debated this bill many times, in politically difficult times. The bill has changed radically. It has always been improved on the basis of the various opinions we have received and the hearings we have held, but also on the basis of exchanges of views with all of you. I think we can be proud today that we, as a committee, can carry out such legislative work. I am convinced that we are taking a good step and hope that I can count on your support for the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is crazy. This is crazy, the number of legislative initiatives whose impetus comes from the diamond industry. Even before I was in this chamber, several Members of Parliament, some of whom are still present, had put forward a bill on judicial seizures, because there was a fear of them. Some had mobilized, but under the impulse, not to say under the lobbying of the diamond dealers. When Didier Reynders was Minister of Finance, there was a tax amnesty on diamond stocks. A tax amnesty specifically made for diamond dealers on the black diamond stocks they had hidden, so they had cheated. There was, of course, not to be recalled, the whole question of the extended criminal transaction, in which we wondered whether it was rather the Kazakh mafia or the Antwerp diamond-makers who were at the origin of this law, to say the least, doubtful. Finally, it appears from the commission of inquiry that it is probably a little both, but in any case, also the diamond-makers. Then there was, under the Michel government, but under the pen of Minister N-VA Johan Van Overtveldt, this famous "carat tax", which is a specific tax, a custom-made tax for diamond dealers, a requirement of this sector. And now there is this new text, which is once again tailor-made for diamondmakers. I hear that this is one of the points that was reflected in the recommendations of the Panama Papers Committee. Colleagues, I was a member of this committee. Moreover, the chairman of this committee, Mr Laaouej, is present. I remember very well how it happened. All at the end of this committee's work, all of a sudden, an N-VA member of this committee – I think it was Rob Van de Velde – came to slip this request, again under pressure from the diamond industry, to offer a banking service to diamond dealers who no longer had access to the banks. I was shocked, obviously. What does this have to do with the fight against tax fraud that was the object of this committee? Nothing! This may have to do with tax fraud itself, but it did have nothing to do with the fight against tax fraud. Do I have to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that 60% of the Belgian dossiers in the SwissLeaks case concern diamonds? Sixty percent of the cases, which cover billions of euros! But as we can still see today, it is true that diamondmakers have incredible relays in the political world. We have to recognize him. Incredible relays, to the point that lobbying takes place up to the House here. What do lobbyists usually do? They're putting pressure on parliamentarians. But this case was quite extraordinary. Some MPs turned themselves into lobbyists for their colleagues. We had the Diamantclub, founded a few years ago and which, apparently, as I hope, no longer exists today. That is what his former president, Jan Jambon, said when he was asked the question. He had become a minister. I think Mr. Verherstraeten is also a member, or even vice-president, of the Diamantclub here in the House. Of course there were Liberals; I wonder if Mrs Marghem was not one of them. There were even Flemish socialists. The Diamantclub is a lobby organized by the deputies themselves. This lobby therefore has power in the Belgian political world, to the point that finally, the lobby that was a parliamentary lobby before the Michel government moved squarely within the government. Indeed, in the Michel First Draft government, no less than seven ministers or secretaries of state had a connection with diamond miners, either having had connections, having initiated legislative parliamentary initiatives, or having taken measures in favour of diamond dealers within a governmental framework. Stop, ladies and gentlemen, who support this text, telling sores! It is not a text that is made "for companies in general who have problems finding a bank". No, it's a custom-made text for diamondmakers. They have been so defrauded, so money laundered, so put their hands in the diamonds of blood – the diamond trade is a criminal activity in Africa and it kills people – that they have managed to instil banks. Not because of the states of mind of the banks, but because the banks today are subject to certain measures, certain risks of sanctions that have been imposed on us internationally. It is rarely purely Belgian initiatives that have put these laws in place. Stop saying that all companies are affected by this problem! Horeca Vlanderen said: "We are not concerned with this kind of problem." The Union des Classes Moyennes says: "This refusal to open a bank account is more an exception than a standard. The question can therefore be asked: should a general solution be applied?" Febelfin, the bank lobby, claims that businesses can access banking services very easily and that the difficulties are mainly encountered by a minority of companies whose management is not compatible with anti-money laundering legislation. The icing on the cake is that we are going to vote on this text today, in the middle of FinCEN Files, this new and additional case revealed by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ). Not late than yesterday, the Belgian journalists of this Consortium, Clerix, Bové and Counsela, came to the Finance Committee to explain to us the extent of the problems of money laundering. This FinCEN Files file concerns the United States a priori since it is the anti-money laundering cell of the United States that is concerned. In any case, the sources come from there. This dossier particularly points to Belgium. Of the few files there are, because unfortunately the sample is small, full of files concern Belgium and, in particular, Belgian banks or banking establishments located in Belgium. What the FinCEN Files show is not that banks are too observant in the fight against money laundering, which one would tend to believe in listening to some colleagues. They're not looking too much. They're too unattractive. They don't do enough. Febelfin is clearly against this text. The question of the reasons must also be asked. If it is so trivial to vote for a text, why are banks refusing to do so? Ask yourself! What I fear is that if this text is voted on today – and unfortunately the PTB was the only one voting against it in committee – banks are offered an alibi to justify their future shortcomings in the fight against money laundering in the future. They can say: "Don't come complaining! You saw the law you passed. We warned you. We were against it." These FinCEN Files reveal, for example, the case of this Antwerp gold merchant - we leave the diamond world, even if we are not very far from it - who operated with the complicity of Belfius. It was only when the bleaching clues or, in any case, when Belfius's position was damaged, that this bank - which seemed to be working very actively with this client - ceased any relationship with him. What can we learn from this? For my part, I believe that further investigation should be made into Belfius' complicity in this case and of banks in general. Similarly, sanctions should be tightened or, at least, measures taken to make them effective. Several mechanisms exist but, according to the journalists heard yesterday, very few of them are applied in the fight against money laundering. Many reports are sent to CTIF, but no action is taken and no case is brought to justice. From such a case, I shall draw the conclusion that it is important to strengthen the effectiveness of sanctions. What's going to happen here? We'll finally win over this Antwerp gold merchant who claims because Belfius put him out - probably, quite rightly. I would also point out - and this is also the case - that Belgium remains one of the last countries to maintain bank secrecy. Unfortunately, the new De Croo government is not putting an end to it. The least we can do when we propose such a text would be to lift bank secrecy in our country and break with this national exception. This would be a prerequisite for this bill. In addition, the intergovernmental body for combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), has critically assessed Belgian policy in the fight against money laundering. Belgium has even been monitored by this body. Instead of offering a banking service to diamond dealers responsible for fraud and money laundering, it is quite the opposite, ladies and gentlemen: it is a matter of applying zero tolerance against financial crime. The procedure provided for in this Act is inapplicable. Indeed, if banks refuse to provide a basic service to a diamond dealer, they must justify themselves and communicate within 10 working days. Imagine the short delay it represents! After three refusals, a basic service will be offered to this diamondmaker. Just ten days is an incentive for banks to provide a basic banking service without taking the necessary precautions. That's right! They say, "Come on, guys, since you won't have time to justify a refusal, you're going to have to accept." It's obvious! The question of motivation remains. Indeed, they must justify the refusal, except in the event of a threat to national security, public order or suspicion of money laundering. But the problem is that if a bank does not disclose any grounds for refusal, it is also an implicit motivation. This means that the company, the diamondmaker in question, is aware of being one of those three cases and he knows that we know. Therefore, this is implicitly in contravention of the anti-money laundering law, which prohibits the reporting of money laundering to the alleged perpetrator. To add a layer, cash transactions are found to be part of the basic service offered to these diamond dealers. It is always said that electronic payments should be given priority, that amounts should be limited in cash, etc. What do we do now? They were told: "Not only are you entitled to a basic banking service, but besides, you can come and withdraw and deposit cash. Go on, guys! Give yourself to joy!" Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, let us wage the real fight for banking services, because there are problems in terms of banking service or banking exclusion. These agencies, the increasingly closed bancontacts – a case that has just been mentioned this week – all these banking policies that, in the name of profit, exclude customers making access more and more difficult especially for people who lack internet connection, this is a real problem for the public. But for you, there is no such thing! The same applies to SMEs. Let's talk about the real problems of SMEs with banks! Those credits that are denied to them! A gift has now been given to the banks: a guarantee of EUR 50 billion for loans. But the credits are still not coming! "SMEs still have difficulty getting credit," says Horeca Vlaanderen when asked about this text. What they want is means of financing and access to credit. Our SMEs need funding to run their business. That is the real problem. The UCM's opinion goes in the same direction. He says: "With the crisis we are going through, companies need liquidity, credit carryovers and the conclusion of new credits." This is the real problem of banking today for individuals and SMEs! Diamonds can't find a bank! Let's first try to solve the real problem before going after the thermometer! What's the real problem? Corruption, money laundering and tax fraud in which this diamond sector has been living for years. It's important to clean it up. In addition, it requires measures and obtains them from policies! That is not normal. So let's clean up this sector and then we can discuss the question of a basic service! Let's not mix the cause with the effects! In this case, if these diamondmakers no longer find a bank, it is primarily because of their dubious practices. There is therefore no less need to combat money laundering. On the contrary, more is needed. That is why we oppose this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u76	Mrs Dierick, you just said that a lot of entrepreneurs have problems with obtaining and retaining bank accounts. I would especially like to focus on maintaining it. I find it very strange, Mrs Dierick, that you have tabled an amendment to remove from the legislative proposal the obligation of transparency, which was previously accepted in committee through an amendment. We all agreed in committee that transparency is necessary and that entrepreneurs are in fact regularly confronted with the cancellation of accounts, without any justification. However, you are now tabling an amendment to avoid transparency. What's behind this? Is there a particular lobby behind this or what is the reason why you choose to take out the obligation of transparency again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u77	Mr Van Lommel, there is still an obligation to motivate any refusal, individually, except, of course, if one goes against anti-money laundering legislation, so that obligation remains. However, Mr Freilich's amendment goes much further: even if the customer has not complied with the anti-money laundering legislation, the bank should still justify its decision. If someone is effectively committing fraud, it would be very strange for the bank to report that it wants to cancel the bank account because it suspects that fraud is being committed. Of course, that's no way to work. There must still be the possibility to comply with anti-money laundering legislation, and that cannot be reported to the entrepreneur. That is the only reason, hence our proposal. I have also said that we will evaluate the law after a year, and that aspect can certainly still be discussed. Again, the reason is to respond to our concern that anti-money laundering legislation must be respected at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u78	Mrs Dierick, I hope that we will be able to open the debate at a later stage. We all agreed that transparency is essential and we must therefore find another way to resolve it. However, I think it is absolutely important that the debate on this can take place and I hope that you will support proposals in this respect at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u79	Madam President, I would like to react without going into the substantive debate that has already taken place. I would like to clarify how the debate took place in the Committee on the Economy and in which I participated on behalf of my group. This debate took us many weeks, many months. In the initial discussions, we were sceptical about the demand that was being made and we wanted to weigh the pros and cons between our objective of fighting money laundering and tax fraud. Environmentalists must not demonstrate how much the fight against blatant injustices is in their DNA. I must acknowledge that we have had extensive discussions with several sectors that have written to us and that have been cited here. This is not just the diamond sector to which we also had an a priori. There is also talk of the Horeca sector, other sectors such as local shops. Some people told us that they had been bankrupt and that they wanted to start up a business, but that the banks were closing their doors, etc. We have managed to amend the text in depth by providing for even stronger safeguards than those mentioned in the original text, which is why I wanted to take the floor in particular. I would like to address Mr. Van Hees telling him I didn't see him in committee. Sir, you were not present to defend with us even stronger beacons aimed at avoiding greater laxity in money laundering, in the fight against tax fraud, aspects that we care about, just like you, for that matter. We have tried to improve the text. There have been a lot of discussions, working groups. I turn to my colleagues who can - I think - confirm this to you. Finally, we have produced a text which, in our view, respects the very important guidelines put in place to avoid drifting and to give gifts to those who defraud our State in a totally unfair manner, while at the same time responding to a real demand from the ground, from a whole series of sectors for which the banks - you said for the credit, but it is exactly the same for the accounts - do not make any effort and refuse to open an account to people who simply want to start a professional activity. This balance, for us, is fundamental. I do not want to imply here that we would have had absolutely no debate and no attention to the fight against money laundering and tax fraud. All the amendments which have been discussed and which were finally voted on in committee are quite clear. I really regret that you were unable to take part in these discussions, because you were not in committee. I wanted to repeat that the work had been done. We may disagree with the final text as a whole, but let us note that the debate has taken place and improvements have been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u80	Madam President, I would like to reply to Mr Vanden Burre. I was not in the Committee on the Economy because I am a member of the Finance Committee, which deals with money laundering. In this respect, I regret a little - but these are the meandering choices of committees... I think that this text deserved more to be in the Finance Committee than in the Economy Committee, but we are not going to swerve about it. But I want to say that my colleague Mr D'Amico, who is a member of the Committee on the Economy, voted in favour of your amendments. I'm not saying your amendments were bad. I am simply saying that they were insufficient to make this text acceptable. I have quoted representatives of the horeca sector, who say precisely that they are not concerned with the problem, that there is no such thing. It is clear that it was the diamond lobby that imposed this. As I said, in Panama Papers Committee, they were already lobbying on this. The proof of this is that a resolution has been passed. Whether they try to find a small case or the other, in sometimes equally questionable circles, where one finds a case as well, I would believe, one can always find a case. I have given enough quotes from the federations that defend SMEs, this is not a problem for SMEs. There is no such thing. This exists for diamond miners and a few cases also in contentious areas. That's the reality. If we vote on this text, we offer an alibi to the banks who can tell us tomorrow: "We warned you. Don't come complaining now if the fight against money laundering is not being carried out properly." That's the result! Your amendments may have limited the damage, but they are totally inadequate. Having said that, Mr Vanden Burre, I would remind you that we voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u81	Madam President, I would like to go back to what Mr. Van Hees. When we auditioned the journalists about the new scandal, I had the opportunity to recall this. The fact that special commissions were set up and that journalistic work was able to make this information known is precisely because there were bank transactions. If we prevent the opening of accounts, we will be deprived of the means to discover suspicious transactions. We can say everything we want, but to think that money laundering will disappear if we do not open bank accounts, which will then disappear, is precisely the way to see the existence of suspicious transactions and to prosecute them. Therefore, this reasoning testifies to a poor understanding of the society in which we live. On the contrary, it is by improving the transactions and accountability of banks and intermediaries that we can capture and detect these problems. Consequently, refusing to open bank accounts to diamond dealers on the grounds that some of them fraud is a bad fight and is tantamount to typing next to the desired objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u82	Madam President, Mr Vanden Burre will probably not expect you, because I rarely agree with you, but on this point he agrees. I have just listened to Mr Van Hees's speech, which raises a number of procedural issues, such as that it was not dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but that he is on the Finance Committee, where it was better dealt with. I find that all very strange. There are also colleagues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs who have hardly been involved in the debate. I also find it a little regrettable, and I refuse to accept it, to say here that this legislation would be based on one particular sector. If that were the case, the Flemish interest would not support this bill. I refuse to accept that it would only be about the diamond sector. Mr Van Hees, of course I expected nothing less from you. You always say that you are close to the population, but there are a lot of entrepreneurs and self-employed people who simply cannot get to a bank account and they do not belong to the diamond sector at all. Next time, if you have a whole exhibition in this assembly, come out of your cave first and know what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u83	Anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u84	Madam President, I would like to make a few comments. During the previous legislature we had the Panama Paper Commission. One of the recommendations in that committee's report was to ensure that all companies and companies could have a bank account. If we want to avoid a black circuit and if we want to avoid foreign accounts being used for transactions related to our country, we must just ensure that our financial institutions are able to look at it. You shake your head, but you do. The recommendation in the report on Panama Papers just provides for greater transparency and for the Belgian authorities to be able to see through the banks and through the CFI what is happening and what transactions there are. It is therefore totally incorrect to claim that this would only affect the diamond lobby. After all, the legislative proposal increases transparency. I can hear you here fighting a sector. It doesn't look like any diamond company is acting properly. I'd like to contradict that. There are rotten apples in every sector. You can't say you don't want a diamond dealer because they're all crooked. You can't say that. We can never do that. Just those bona fide traders, who work hard day in and day out, need to be supported. However, this does not apply only to diamond dealers. Today, this is also the case with the jewellers. Will you talk about the jewelry lobby later? That's not supposed to happen, is it? That is why I want to make it clear that, as Mr Van Lommel points out, the legislation before us is there for a lot of companies. You may have received e-mails as well. After all, I know that several other committee members have received emails from companies that are not based in Antwerp, which are not in the industry at all, which do very different business and which also have the same problem, namely that they do not receive an account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u85	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u86	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (619/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (619/10) The bill has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u87	• 56 years old Leen Dierick cs (619/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u88	Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Reserved: Amendments and Articles 7 and 9. Sustained: the amendments and Articles 7 and 9. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 6, 8, 10 to 11. Adopted article by article: articles 1 to 6, 8, 10 to 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments, the reserved articles and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted, and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u90	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Benoît Piedboeuf, Caroline Taquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u92	Madam President, I will not take too long, but I would like to point out the importance of this legislative proposal. It sounds a little general, but we have had a very constructive debate on it in committee. I would just like to explain what this bill means and how the discussion went on in committee. Each catering business pays an annual contribution to the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. This contribution is between EUR 50 and EUR 3,400, depending on the size of the case. This proposal aims to completely delete the contribution of the catering industry for this year, 2020. Normally, every catering business should have paid its contribution by 15 November. That is why today we are proposing to exempt the catering industry from this year. This bill was discussed in committee two weeks ago. It has still been initiated by Minister Ducarme, who asked the European Commission for an opinion on whether we made mistakes. Then it came to committee. Originally there were two additional articles that wanted to record the contribution of all the items due to the BFSA for next year. That is because this contribution is reviewed every three years. We have discussed this in advance and the authors have decided to delete those two articles from the legislative proposal by means of an amendment, which has therefore been adopted. In short, the original bill was more extensive than what is now before us, with the clear intention now of ensuring that the catering business does not have to pay a fee this year, and that we will soon start a new discussion to review the contribution for next year for all matters that are affiliated to the BFSA. Those two articles have been deleted. Further amendments were tabled by CdH colleagues who were retabled today. I suppose Mr Fonck will explain it later. In the end it was only about removing the fees to the BFSA for this year. Among other things Horeca Flanders has claimed to be absolutely asking party for that. As far as the financial implications for the BFSA are concerned, this amounts to about €10 million in total. This will have no impact on the budget because the BFSA has indicated that it can bear those losses from its own reserves this year. In the end, after a very quick discussion, the bill was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u93	Madam President, as I speak just after my colleague Barbara Creemers, I will go straight to what concerns us. I would like to point out, even if Mrs Creemers has just done so, that the horeca sector is an exsanguous sector – a lot of this has been discussed earlier and it has been debated almost weekly, unfortunately, in plenary. New decisions at different levels of government continue to attack this sector cruelly. The horeca sector has tens of thousands of self-employed jobs and a lot of employees as well. We're talking about 140,000 people who depend directly on the Horeca. We know that the bill before us today is not going to solve the problems faced by this sector as if by magic. As we have just said, the contributions to the AFSCA of the horeca sector amount to between 50 and 3,500 euros per year. It's not just Christmas for the area at once. However, it is believed that this is an absolutely necessary gesture, which can, in spite of all this, relieve part of this hard-hit sector. It is above all a complementary measure to those already taken at the various levels of power (federal and regional). It was recalled that, of course, time was taken to analyse the impact of this measure on the AFSCA. As this is a $10 million shortfall on a $150 million AFSCA reserve, we are confident that the missions of the AFSCA, which are absolutely crucial to our public health, will not be impacted. It was also mentioned that amendments had been proposed by Mrs Fonck. I'm coming in before her. This is a bit of a mysterious order of debate in plenary. But maybe it's time to call him back. Of course, Mrs Fonck's proposal to look directly further than the sector's needs in 2020 is legitimate. It is well known that the Horeca sector will still suffer enormously in the coming months and probably throughout the year 2021. The debate in committee was very structured and very useful, but it was also very quick. It required a lot of action on the part of Minister Ducrame at the time, particularly with the European Union. At once, asking us to plan for the year after that seemed to go a little bit quickly and required consultation with the sectors concerned. It is quite obvious that all the groups represented in our assembly are concerned and are anxious to find very effective solutions for the Horeca sector in 2021. But it seemed to us that it was a bit fast that we were already planning in November 2021 with regard to the contributions to the AFSCA. In order to be able to move forward with this text and give answers to the sector very quickly, we have chosen to focus on 2020 and to continue our work in committee for the year 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 13 March, our country went into lockdown. I think that no one in the hemisphere needs a sectoral economic analysis to make it clear that at that time it was a very difficult time for the catering industry, but not only for the catering industry. A difficult period, a particularly difficult period, is not over for the catering industry as for the rest of our country. In fact, I'm afraid it could get worse. For many hospitality operators every help comes too late and for a lot of others we have to find that the water is on their lips. In the few opening hours that have yet to be awarded them, they can and may only work at half power. Unfortunately, the chances of a lot of bankruptcies in the catering sector are particularly real. We must support a sector of 73,000 self-employed people and more than twice as many jobs that can use every push in the back. Mrs Fonck, we will abstain from your amendments because the Flemish interest believes that an analysis of the measures should be carried out next year. On the basis of that analysis, we can and must decide whether the measure for 2021 is still necessary and useful. Madam President, as promised, I will be very brief. Releasing the hospitality industry from fees due to the BFSA may in some cases be a drop on a hot plate and not blissful, but it is a good start. That is also why the Flemish interest will approve the bill with that measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u95	Madam President, as my colleague has made a very accurate account of the debates in committee, I can only say that this is the way things have happened. We have simplified the proposal so that it can pass now, even if we discuss the other contributions at a later stage. It was, of course, essential to obtain the agreement of the European Commission. The Minister has therefore taken steps to this end and has obtained it. The reason why we rejected Mrs Fonck's amendment on the primary sector in particular is that, in the request to the Commission, this specific point was not put forward. In doing so, saying today that we had to support this amendment when there was no agreement makes no sense. With regard to the question of the year 2021, we did not want to anticipate the way in which it will take place, even if, in view of the worsening of the situation, we now know that it is likely that the difficulties will continue. We have decided to do what is necessary before 15 November for 2020 so that businesses can be exempted. Of course, we will do what is necessary before November 15, 2021, if a further exemption from payment of this contribution would be necessary for businesses. Moreover, as my colleagues have said, the financial reserve of the AFSCA is in the order of 100 million, drawing the required amount from this reserve was quite possible and did not impact the budget. We therefore defended the proposal that had been initiated by Minister Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the hospitality sector needs breathing space. Everyone craves breathing space, but certainly the catering industry. Unfortunately, we can't give it physical, but we can give it financial. That is also what we are doing today for a sector that has been hit very hard, with a mandatory closure at the beginning of the year, the distance rules, the early closure period, and we will see what else will follow in the future. Urgent measures are, of course, necessary. They already receive fewer customers and some customers stay away. This year there is already a turnover loss of 39 %. That's huge in a sector with 40,000 jobs and 73,000 self-employed. I live in Leuven with the longest bar. We must strive for that longest bar to remain. That is why measures are needed. That is why we support this proposal. It may be just a little sip on the drink, but I think we should continue on this momentum. Local authorities make a lot of efforts with terraces that are expanded and terrace taxes that are lifted. A VAT reduction of 6% on alcoholic beverages has also been introduced in Flanders. They are exempt from SABAM. It is good that we are also taking the right measures at federal level. We are talking about EUR 10.1 million, as has already been said, but every euro counts in this crisis. I think we should consider moving forward on the same momentum. We must be able to consider Mrs Fonck's amendments if the recalculation is correct. We fully support this proposal. We also hope for future new proposals which could give the sector even more breathing space in the financial field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Open Vld is also very pleased with the proposal made by our colleagues from MR. The hospitality industry is indeed in a very difficult situation in the current crisis, as it sees really black snow. The measure under discussion is not sufficient to save the catering industry, but it is in addition to a number of other measures already taken by both federal and regional levels during the crisis. In addition, many cities and municipalities have already made efforts to support the catering industry. What is now before us is therefore a justified addition. Moreover, similar measures were taken in the past when other sectors subject to contributions in crisis, such as pig farming, were temporarily exempted from fees to the BFSA. The catering industry is also a labour-intensive sector which offers a lot of work. Any bankruptcy can affect a large number of workers, who in turn may find it difficult to find a new job in the short term, as the country is faced with a sudden outburst of unemployment. The sector is therefore a requesting party to the proposed measure. Finally, it is important that the measure was also approved by the European Commission. No scheme is therefore approved which cannot be applied subsequently. A number of colleagues have already mentioned that the measure under discussion costs more than EUR 10 million, but this will not have an impact on the general budget, as the funds come from the operating resources of the BFSA. The Minister assured that there are sufficient funds within the BFSA to finance this measure. For all these reasons, Open Vld will enthusiastically support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the present bill that reduces the contribution of the catering sector to the BFSA makes sense. There has also been no or hardly any activity in the hospitality sector in recent months. Then it is also logical that the contribution should be adjusted. When activity resumed, it was with a great deal of restrictive measures, fewer seats, less capacity, restrictions in opening hours and so on. No one knows, of course, what the coming weeks and months will give. In this sense, it seems to us to be a very logical proposal. We also had the discussion a few months ago in the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda, following a resolution on support for the catering sector. At the same time, we supported the proposal in this area. The sp.a group will therefore strongly support the proposal of the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously a small positive element for the Horeca sector, since for some it is a very small amount and for others it is a larger amount. That being said, this sector has been heavily impacted by the crisis and, when we see today's reality, the second wave and the decisions, which I do not know but which you may already know, which will be taken tomorrow and which unfortunately could have a negative impact on the Horeca sector, frankly, what is EUR 10 million? The AFSCA's reserves would be EUR 150 million and we are told that it is too early to decide whether this provision can also be extended in 2021. You will agree that the amounts quoted are at stake, all the more so in view of the new catastrophic evolution of the VOCID-19 and its direct impact on this sector. That is why, Madam President, I have resubmitted an amendment. The purpose of the first amendment is to extend this measure by 2021. This is not a problem at European level. It is therefore an argument that does not hold the road. In addition, in this provision you make, you only have a discount for the horeca sector and the street retail trade. But the VOCID-19 struck with the same violence in many sectors. In fact, you had originally planned an increase in the contribution for some sectors. Fortunately, you corrected it, but I was also particularly concerned about it. In the proposal, which had nevertheless been made - let's call a cat - by the AFSCA, the latter had proposed and validated the reduction of the contribution for the primary production sector which, today, is only a little below 200 euros. She proposed to reduce this contribution drastically to 2 euros, so basically to cancel it. This element proposed by the AFSCA seems particularly important to me for this sector of primary production. He himself is hit hard by the current crisis. That is why I tabled this second amendment. Here again, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the amount that this represents, in view of the reserve of the AFSCA which you are constantly putting forward, which is 150 million - some have even mentioned the figure of 250 million in the debates - yes, I think that could, should and should have been achieved. We will see your position in the vote on these amendments. It is true that we hear a lot at the moment, on the occasion of many debates which nevertheless concern urgent issues for certain sectors: "We will see later, let's postpone this." What we are talking about for the primary production sector is not 2021, but 2020. If we don't do it now, stop telling me you'll do it later. You will not do so for the year 2020 since it will have passed. It'll be too late. I therefore invite those who think that it is important to support this sector to make this small gesture which, in view of the individual amount, alongside others, is an important gesture and which is, I would remind you, clearly financed by the AFSCA reserve. It had been validated and proposed by the AFSCA itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u100	Madam President, I would just like to make a correction. For the primary sector, a favourable opinion from the committee is required. That's how it is!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u101	We are not going to have a long debate and will certainly not come back to the debate that took place in committee. First, we already have the European Commission's opinion on the extension in 2021. Secondly, on the other point, the text had been sent in its full version. But you have made a political choice to withdraw everything through the tabling of amendments. Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u102	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u103	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1513/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1513/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u104	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u105	Sustained: the amendments and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u106	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u108	The Chamber must appoint Mr. Pieter-Alexander De Brock's second alternate. The Chamber should appoint the second alternate member of Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock. Nominations were announced in plenary on 24 October 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 24 October 2019. On 18 November 2019 and 14 September 2020, the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment of the P and R Committees held a hearing of the candidates. Ms Cécile Thibaut reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 16 September 2020. On 18 November 2019 and 14 September 2020 the candidates were heard by the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of Committees P and I. Mrs Cécile Thibaut reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u109	The Chamber must appoint a francophone female member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. The Chamber should appoint a French-speaking female member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. Nominations were announced in plenary on 17 September 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. On 6 October 2020, the Justice Committee held a hearing of the candidates. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 7 October 2020. On 6 October 2020 the candidates were heard by the Justice Commission. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 7 October 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 October 2020, I propose that you make these appointments during the plenary session on 22 October 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 October 2020, I propose that these appointments be made at the plenary session of 22 October 2020. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Members may vote from Friday 16 October 2020 until Thursday 22 October 2020 at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: Members may vote from Friday 16 October 2020 until Thursday 22 October 2020 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. The ballot boxes will be open during the plenary meeting on Thursday, 22 October 2020, at 4 p.m. in Room 3. The two youngest members are invited to attend the recount. The urns with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 22 October 2020, at 4 p.m. in Room 3. The youngest two members are invited to attend. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u110	For your information, I should like to inform you of the names of the following committee chairmen: For information, I would like to inform you of the names of the following committee chairmen: Committee on Energy, Environment and Climate: Commission for Energy, Environment and Climate: Patrick Dewael Finance and Budget Committee: Commission for Finance and Budget: Marie-Christine Marghem
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u111	The N-VA Group sent me Mr Wouter Raskin's candidacy as an effective member and Mr Koen Metsu's candidacy as an alternate member, replacing Mr Wouter Raskin. The N-VA Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Wouter Raskin as a permanent member and that of Mr Koen Metsu, in place of Mr Wouter Raskin, as an alternate member. The Open Vld Group has sent me Mr Tim Vandenput's candidacy as an effective member. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has given me the candidacy of Mr Tim Vandenput as an alternate member. The MR Group has sent me Mr Philippe Goffin's candidacy as an alternate member. The MR Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Philippe Goffin as a permanent member. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare MM. Wouter Raskin and Tim Vandenput elected as effective members and MM. Philippe Goffin and Koen Metsu elected as alternate members of the Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council. As there are no other applications, in accordance with Article 157 No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mr Wouter Raskin and Mr Tim Vandenput elected as permanent members and Mr Philippe Goffin and Mr Koen Metsu elected as alternate members of the Consultative Interparliamentary Benelux Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u112	The MR Group has sent me the candidacy of Marie-Christine Marghem as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The MR Group has given me the candidacy of Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem as alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157, No 6 of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem elected as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Since there are no other applications, there should be, in accordance with Article 57, No. 6, of the Rules of Procedure, do not vote and I declare Mrs Marie-Christine Marghem elected as alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u113	The MR Group has sent me the candidature of Mr Denis Ducrame as an effective member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. The MR Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Denis Ducarme as a permanent member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mr Denis Ducrame elected as an effective member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Since there are no other candidates, Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure requires no vote and I declare Mr Denis Ducarme to be a permanent member of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u114	The MR Group has sent me the candidature of Daniel Bacquelaine as an alternate member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The MR Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Daniel Bacquelaine as an alternate member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mr Daniel Bacquelaine elected as an alternate member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Since there are no other candidates, Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure requires no vote and I declare Mr Daniel Bacquelaine to be an alternate member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u115	By message of 25 September 2020, the Brussels Parliament informs us that it was constituted at today's sitting. By letter of 25 September 2020, the Brussels Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u116	The Government has requested the urgency pursuant to section 51 of the Regulations to: - the Medical Devices Bill, No. 1534/1; - the draft law to allow the National Social Security Office to grant payment deadlines for contributions due in the third and fourth quarter of 2020 without application of sanctions, No. 1537. The Government has requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure for: - the draft law on medical devices, No. 1534/1; - the draft law allowing the National Social Security Office to grant payment periods for contributions due for the third and fourth quarter of 2020 without the application of sanctions, No. 1537. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u117	Madam President, the government is asking for two emergencies. The first concerns Bill 1534 on medical devices, which replaces the European regulation, including the directives in force. It will enter into force on 26 May 2021. The Regulation, which has a direct effect in the legislation of the Member States, will also mean that, from the date of entry into force, the current rules on medical devices in Belgium will cease to apply. It is therefore necessary for a law to enter into force at the same time as the Regulation, which defines the application of its provisions: sanctions, the power to determine by inspection, the necessary registrations by the Medicines and Health Products Agency, as well as other key issues left to the Member States such as the functioning and power of the ethics committees, the approval of clinical investigations and the regulation on the reuse of medical devices. The law and its implementing orders must therefore be published in the Belgian Monitor by 26 May 2021 at the latest. Enforcement orders may be submitted for the opinion of the Council of State only where there is certainty about the legal text. It is my colleague Vandenbroucke who, on behalf of the government, is asking for the urgency of this text. If I may, Madam President, may I present the second text?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u118	Yes, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u119	The second text is a bill to allow the National Social Security Office to grant payment deadlines for contributions due for the third and fourth quarters of 2020 (No. 1537). The bill was introduced by the federal government and regulates the postponement of employers' payment of contributions collected by the National Social Security Office. This is one of the actions taken in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic. Madam President, these two texts come from my colleague Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u120	Thank you, Minister. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question. We will begin with the first text, the Medical Devices Bill, No. 1534/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u121	We can comment on the urgency of the second project to allow the National Social Security Office to grant payment deadlines for contributions due for the third and fourth quarter of 2020 without applying sanctions, No. 1537.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u122	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u123	Madam President, I would like to ask for urgent consideration of resolution 1572/1, which is being considered today on the conflict in and around Nagorny Karabakh. This resolution is co-signed by several colleagues from various groups and I thank them for that. It is important for your Committee on External Relations, Madam President, to be able to examine this text at its next meeting so that the House and the government can weigh their weight in the European Union, the United Nations Security Council and NATO to stop the bloodshed taking place in this region. Azerbaijan, in its offensive, uses weapons prohibited by international conventions, such as cluster bombs and explosive drones. Civilian populations are targeted. Syrian jihadists, sponsored by Turkey, took part in the fighting and Turkey itself participated in the fight against Armenian and Nagorny Karabakh forces. This conflict is already a humanitarian disaster. The conditions seem to be in place for a larger massacre. For the people of Nagorny Karabakh, the nightmare begins again. There is no point, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in commemorating the memory of genocide if we do not invest all our energy to condemn with all our strength and to stop the crimes that are under way, violations of international law and serious destabilization when this is still the case. That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept the urgent consideration of this resolution in the Committee on External Relations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u124	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u125	Mrs Valerie Van Peel, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1567/1, which amends the Criminal Code with regard to the duty to report certain offences committed against minors or vulnerable persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u126	Madam President, this is a legislative proposal supported by Child Focus and the Child Abuse Trust Centre, which, at the previous lockdown, raised all possible alarm bells, because children in difficult family situations, children at home affected by violence and abuse, were abandoned during that period. Once again, we are faced with a period of stricter measures in which children are once again condemned to the problematic home situation. There is a huge dark number in the field of child abuse and child abuse. There is no miracle solution here, but the proposed text can help. Apart of course from what the majority thinks about the substance of this matter, I would like to explain once again what the question of urgency is about. How important is it that we start the discussion now and not just in six months' time? I think that's obvious. As far as the entanglement ahead is concerned, the children we really forgot last time - unfortunately the figures have made clear - must be our first priority. I see, moreover, that the majority will shortly be asking for the urgency of the PS voting right in the governing committee. I assume that if that is so urgent, the legislative proposal on which I am asking for urgency will be appointed as urgent, especially in this new political culture promised to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u127	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u128	Madam President, as Mr Van Peel rightly says, it is an extremely important proposal that deserves consideration in the Committee on Justice, whether or not together with the amendments to the Criminal Code, which are already under discussion. The N-VA Group as the largest group can ask for priority. We shall deal with them with this proposal with a dilapidate and respectful manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u129	So, Mr Verherstraeten, you do not support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u130	Mr De Roover, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1571/1 amending the Royal Decree of 16 May 2003 implementing Chapter 7 of Title IV of the Programme Act of 24 December 2002 (I) on the harmonisation and simplification of the arrangements for reductions in social security contributions as regards the extension of the target group reduction for the recruitment of a first employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u131	Madam President, the current exemption for the first employee expires on 31 December. That's not very long anymore. We need urgent treatment here in order to avoid a gap from 1 January. This measure promotes employment and can make a small contribution to achieving 80% employment by 2030. This proposal dates back to the start of a new government, but in the purple-green government agreement we read that an extension of this target group measure is necessary. I have no doubt, therefore, that I have a very broad support here for this question of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u132	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u133	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1573/1 on amending the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to amend Articles 3 and 9 relating to the Governance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u134	Madam Chair, this is a bill to review the Governance Committee's Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u135	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u136	I find the motivation rather limited. It is very difficult to judge on that basis. I think it is a very dubious proposal in itself, because it is simply about promoting someone within a position. But that you have the courage, ladies and gentlemen, to ask the urgency for this, I think the limit of decency is far beyond. It is almost too embarrassing to say that I do not support this, because that is obvious. Of course, I don't support it. It is a very painful moment that we are experiencing here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u137	I fully agree with the previous speaker. The urgent nature of such a thing completely escapes me. We will certainly not support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u138	Mrs Depraetere, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1574/1 amending the Act of 30 October 2018 laying down various provisions in the field of health with a view to bringing into force the legal provisions on the establishment of pharmacies open to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u139	Madam President, the Law of 30 October 2018 on various health provisions has replaced a number of legal provisions on the establishment of pharmacies open to the public. The entry into force of this provision is foreseen at a date to be determined by the King and at the latest two years after its publication in the Belgian Official Journal, which is 16 November 2020. However, no implementing decisions have been taken in the last two years, which threatens to bring the law into force on 16 November without any implementing provisions. However, these implementing provisions are necessary in our opinion, because they concern permit conditions and procedures and their entry into force on 16 November without those implementing provisions would therefore have a far-reaching legal uncertainty as regards the new licence applications. Given that proceedings have still been brought before the Constitutional Court with regard to this provision of law and that the further consequence should be awaited, it is appropriate to extend the deadline by one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u140	Madam President, I wanted to consult this text to examine its content, but I note that it is not available on the website. Is this a problem for the emergency request?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u141	The text was distributed in due time. You're telling me it's unavailable on the site, I have to check it out. Even if that is the case, it was actually distributed. So I think we can vote. If you wish, I have it in front of my eyes. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u142	Madam President, I would like to share a little reflection with you. At the beginning of the Coronavirus crisis, we had an increase in emergency requests, which I understand because a lot of legal devices had to go through the House quickly. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we must make a relative choice between dozens of bills and, normally, in committee, these choices are made through the possibility for each party to indicate its priority bill. Each party then indicates a political choice over dozens of existing legislative proposals. In this case, consideration should be given to continuing to call for urgency and giving priority, in two or three seconds, to bills on others that are already being discussed in the committees. I will vote yes because I can see that the game is to vote on the substance of the proposal. But I have nothing against the bottom. I would simply point out that if we continue to give urgency to everything, it may be a problem. The debate in committee is no longer possible on the choice of the law to be dealt with. It's a simple reflection. You're doing whatever you want. If we continue like this, I may be the first to ask for urgency if there is a PTB bill. But I do not have the impression that with this debate of five to ten seconds, just to say "for or against" and on urgency, we gain a lot on the substance. Let's do that in the commissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u143	The debate will indeed take place in committee. We speak only about urgency, but of course we hear your reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u144	Vote on Amendment No 55 by Leen Dierick cs on Article 7 (619/11) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Len Dierick cs to Article 7 (619/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 141 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u145	The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 56 by Leen Dierick cs to omit Article 9 (619/11) Vote on Amendment No 56 by Len Dierick cs to delete Article 9 (619/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 92 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 144 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u146	The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. I would remind you of Rule 95(3) of the Rules of Procedure, which states that "if an amendment is adopted at first reading by the plenary assembly, the final vote on the bill or bill so amended shall not take place before the expiry of five days". The final vote on the text will therefore take place next Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u147	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (1513/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck on article 2. (1513/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[21]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 143 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u148	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 2/1. (1513/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 2/1. (1513/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u149	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u151	Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1513/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King as a draft law for ratification. (1513/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-15-55-plenair-ip064x.u152	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. I feel in a hurry to close this first meeting that I had the honour of chairing. Thank you for your understanding and wish you all an excellent evening. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 22, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 22 October 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
