ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u1	Welcome to our committee, Minister Dermagne. We will start immediately because there will be a second part of the sitting at 3.30 p.m. We begin with point 10, a question from Mrs Vindevoghel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u2	Mr President, Minister, although the question has been put in French, I would like to put it in Dutch, because it is a little easier for me. I hope this is not a problem for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u3	Can I answer you in French?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u4	Yeah, no problem. I understand French, but it's easier for me to speak Dutch. As you know, we must respect the distance rules. We need to wear a mouth mask. This is essential in the current epidemic which is developing very quickly. However, we note that the purchase of such protective equipment is not cheap. Test Purchase has recently indicated that in Belgium the price of a mouth mask is quite high. In Belgium, a mouth mask costs 75 cents. In Portugal it is 40 cents, in Denmark it is 30 cents and in France it is only 10 cents. In France, the government has set a price ceiling for masks and alcoholic gels for several months. The examination of Test Purchase shows that 82% of Belgian families are in favour of the introduction of a maximum price for mouth masks. Do you agree to set a ceiling for the masks and the protective gels? Test Purchase indicates that this would be a good idea. For a family with four children this can cost 50 euros a month or more. That's a lot of money for a lot of people. A lot of disposable masks come from China. In Belgium a lot of reusable, high-quality masks are produced. Therefore, do you not think that you should pursue a policy that favours this type of masks compared to masks coming from the other side of the world? This would benefit both the environment and our employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u5	Thank you, Mrs Vindevoghel, for your question which was put in French. I will give the answer in French. On the basis of data collected until 30 September at the two largest online pharmacies - Newpharma and Farmaline, not to mention them - and at the three largest retailers, Carrefour, Delhaize and Colruyt, not to mention them as well, my services inform me that disposable mouth masks are also available at prices slightly below 50 cents per room, which are also lower than those applied last June. For our neighbours, the price of these masks is limited in France to a maximum of 95 cents each. This tariff is significantly higher than the Belgian market price and therefore has no effect on it. When considering whether it is desirable to impose a maximum price on facial masks, it must of course be taken into account that the simultaneous supply of priority customers such as health personnel and other consumers must be ensured. For all these reasons, honourable Member, in this situation, I am not considering applying a maximum price to these masks. Furthermore, limiting supply to domestic production carries not only the risk of endangering our country's supply - as we have seen in the first wave - but would also be difficult to justify, if not contrary to European law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u6	Minister, I am sorry that we cannot reach a ceiling or a lower price. The mouth masks and hand gels are expensive for a lot of families anyway. It means a reasonable sum in their budget. There has been a major debate in France. You say that price is higher. We heard that it was only 10 cents, that is what we heard. The debate was held in France across all party boundaries to set a ceiling from the outset. I regret that we cannot go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u7	Minister, the ministerial decision states that there is a ban on the indoor sale of drinks and food. According to several newspapers, the cinema industry assumes that this also applies to cinemas and points out that the sale of snacks for cinemas is vital. The snack or popcorn is part of the cinema visit. If they are restricted, a lot of people will postpone their visit to the cinema or even no more plans at all. Meanwhile, many production houses continue to postpone the launch of new movies due to the corona crisis and the fact that they are not successful. The reduced offer will undoubtedly also reduce the number of cinema visitors. The sector will thus become one of the most latent victims of the crisis and of the measures taken. Unless new measures are in place. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Is it true that the cinemas won't be allowed to sell snacks in the next few weeks? No pre-packaged snacks, either? Does this sector have a right to support? If not, what will you do with the government to support the cinema industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u8	Mrs Verhelst, thank you for your questions. As regards your first question, I would like to inform you that the answer falls within the competence of the Minister for the Interior. The cinema sector benefits from economic support measures which are not specific to the sector, such as temporary unemployment resulting from the outbreak of the coronavirus, the right of bridging when the activity is self-employed, or regional bonuses. These support measures are intended to help businesses and workers through the crisis. In addition, the government is working on its recovery plan, one of the main objectives of which is to stimulate economic activity in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u9	I am sorry that I have apparently addressed my question to the wrong minister. Nevertheless, I would like to hear your opinion as to whether it was possible or not. I thought this was an economic issue. Anyway, I'll take this with me. I will have to ask my question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u10	Mr. President, Minister, welcome. This is our first committee together, I think. Although adherence to strict rules is obviously essential to counter the spread of the virus, we will not yet recall it, some activities, such as the magazine sector, have suffered since the beginning of the health crisis, particularly the health protocols still in place. Providing mainly magazines for waiting rooms, such as those of doctors and hairdressers, self-employed persons engaged in this activity have been virtually out of business since mid-March. The guide for shops with physical contact (including the professions) does not exclude the presence of magazines in the waiting room. It must be noted that Sciensano's publications say the opposite with regard to the medical professions. It is explicitly requested to remove all brochures and magazines from waiting rooms, not to mention that some practitioners prefer to leave patients in their cars and bring them in one after the other to avoid them gathering in a waiting room. Minister, in order to support this sector that is very affected by the crisis, would it be possible to allow the presence of magazines in the waiting rooms if the barrier actions are strictly respected and thus to adapt the regulation provided for by Sciensano, or in any case, to have an extremely clear communication on this subject? What is planned and implemented to support this sector in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Reuter, thank you for your question. As you know, it is not cheerfulness of heart that we are forced to impose restrictions in certain sectors of economic activity or social life, in order to protect the health of the population. You share these goals. Consequently, Sciensano's publications prevail in order to avoid the worst and to have to impose once again a complete blockage of our economy. I can only call for these publications and recommendations to be followed. As far as the magazine sector is concerned, it has economic support measures which are not specific to the sector, as well as the cinema sector which we have just mentioned with Mrs Verhelst. These support measures include temporary unemployment as a result of the epidemic, the right to bridge if the activity is self-employed, or the different regional premiums. The support measures are all aimed at helping businesses, self-employed people and workers through the crisis. Moreover, as I said, the government is working hard on its recovery plan, one of the main objectives of which is to stimulate economic activity in Belgium and in the various sectors affected by the current crisis – including the magazine sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u12	Minister, thank you. Of course, I did not expect another answer. We know that the phase we are going through today is even more serious than the previous one. Similarly, every effort must be made to reduce contamination and end this dramatic pandemic. The measures taken serve to preserve the economy as much as possible. Unfortunately, these are sectors that may not recover, despite all the provisions that have been decided since March to help them. I understand your answer. We can only support all measures that contribute to combating the spread of the virus. However, I fear that they are insufficient, which is why we need to rework on this recovery plan. We will work together to try to help them more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u13	Minister, in 2019, the FPS Economy point of contact received 9,142 reports of Internet fraud, compared to 7,000 in 2018 (+29%). Currently, more than 700,000 fake online shops are also registered. The increase is mainly for individual consumers. The most common complaints are fraudulent practices, goods or services not delivered or delivered, breaches of data protection or unwanted deliveries. Almost all of these reports are forwarded to the Economic Inspectorate. In 2020, containment forced a large part of the population to use the Internet even more, in particular to make unfortunately purchases - which harms our local businesses, but this is another debate! And, of course, the number of online frauds has exploded. According to the latest published figures, between the beginning of the year and August, the point of contact of the SPF Economy received no less than 23,362 reports of fraud or fraudulent practice, almost as much as what had been recorded over the past year as a whole. Minister, do you have any figures on the different types of fraud - financial, economic? Do you have any information on the annual amounts of these scams in recent years? Have any additional measures been taken as a result of the increase in cases recorded during confinement? Is there European coordination in the fight against online fraud? If cases are identified, what action can be taken? In conclusion, it is true that this concerns all kinds of fraud, such as small appliances. It is often older people, perhaps less skilled with computer systems, who are the first victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u14	Mr President, I thank Mrs Reuter for her question. From 1 January 2020 to 22 October 2020, the contact point received a total of 28,115 fraud reports, of which 9,864 concerned fraudulent online shops. These reports focused on undelivered products and unsolicited goods or services. Reports of fraudulent practices cover a wide range of topics that often do not fall within the competence of the SPF Economy, such as "reciprocals", "sextortion" or fraud of friendship - a few unique neologisms! The financial injury to the Economic Inspectorate from 1 January 2019 to 22 October 2020 amounted to EUR 29,317,412.7. It should be noted here that the data available to the Economic Inspectorate are purely declarative. Moreover, the complainants do not always mention the amount of their injury. Consequently, the total sum does not accurately and fully reflect the actual injury incurred. In recent months, the Economic Inspectorate has focused on reports directly related to the health crisis, such as online fraud in the sale of masks. In addition, my services have mainly taken initiatives in the area of prevention. The SPF Economy warns against online fraud via press releases, information campaigns such as "Avoid Traps" and on social networks. On September 11, for example, the campaign "Avoid the Traps" was launched to raise public awareness of the various phenomena of fraud and to give it advice via the website avoidlespieges.be so as not to get swindled. Where the alleged perpetrators of fraud have been identified, the Economic Inspectorate has conducted an investigation, taken the necessary measures and, where appropriate, forwarded the case to the competent authorities. Some files have led to the closure of websites, bank accounts, telephone numbers or fraudulent e-mail addresses. Finally, at European level, the Economic Inspectorate represents our country in the Consumer Protection Cooperation (CPC) network. In the context of the coronavirus crisis, collaboration has been established in the fight against unfair commercial practices and fraud. Europol also organised the Pangea Action in cooperation with Customs and the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AFMPS). Finally, it should be noted that Europol has also provided guidelines on the fight against fraud in the context of the coronavirus crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u15	Minister, thank you for your precise and detailed answers. Given the amounts advanced, it's huge! It is particularly frightening to see how much benefit we have from the misfortune of others. I am therefore pleased to hear that there is a genuine European collaboration to work on these online frauds, because this is an issue that cannot be more topical and affects many countries other than ours. I can only encourage you to raise awareness among older people, who are the least accustomed to such practices. I will come back to this in a future debate on this subject, but they should really be encouraged to go to their local shops, instead of enriching the big online platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u16	Minister, the context of VOCID-19 has allowed the banking sector to accelerate its digitization. We had a debate on this under the previous government. Technological innovations, although with many advantages, sometimes and often lead to an oblivion of older customers. As a result of the decline in the number of banking agencies and the digitalisation of their services, many seniors face great difficulties in carrying out their banking operations independently. One example is the removal of account extract printers in agencies. Many older people do not know how to use the online application and make transfers in a virtual way. The problem is that the sending of bank extracts and manual transactions now have a significant additional cost of €6 on average! Minister, what is being done not to leave these people in difficulty in the face of these new tools that are not necessarily suitable for older people?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u17	Mrs Reuter, thank you for your question. As you mentioned, of course, the digitisation of our society is undeniably in progress, and the crisis that we have just been going through and that we are still going through has also led to an acceleration in this direction. The financial sector, which is an important part of our economy, also relies heavily on the digitization of its services. This digital evolution is global and Belgium cannot and should not remain in decline. However, care must be taken to ensure that the consumer and, in particular, the weak user is not discriminated against or left behind as a result of this digital development. For too many of our citizens - and like you, I am thinking in particular of the elderly or those who suffer from the digital divide - digitalisation is not necessarily synonymous with emancipation. On the contrary, it is all too often synonymous with a loss of financial autonomy, longer travel and higher costs for their banking operations. At the moment, I do not yet have all the necessary information and information to enable me to assess in practice and correctly all the consequences of this rapid technological development of banking services, but I am of course aware of the situation and will continue to pay attention to it. As you know, the government agreement mentions this important issue. It is envisaged that "the government will ensure that access to basic banking services does not remain a dead letter for vulnerable groups in need of appropriate services such as persons with disabilities, the elderly or persons without access to banking services". It is also planned that "the government will evaluate the services provided in the framework of the basic banking service and increase its advertising, paying particular attention to the accessibility of the physical account extracts" which you take as an example. My administration is responsible for deepening the digitalisation of banking services and the impact on the most vulnerable people in order to be able to identify the major lessons learned and all points of attention. Of course, I will not fail to inform you of any measures that will be taken, once the consultation with my administration has been completed, in accordance with and on the basis of the prerogatives that are mine. While the basic banking service has been an important step forward for the most vulnerable consumers, there is every indication that it should now be updated and improved in the light of the growing digitalisation of banking services. I will not fail to consult the consumer associations and the banking sector, namely Febelfin, in order not to mention it, in order to examine further how to move forward on this issue. Finally, I should like to point out that the Code of Economic Law provides for the rights and obligations of banks and consumers. In particular, it requires the bank to provide a wide range of information on the execution of payment transactions. Banks must therefore ensure that the choice of technical and technological means available to consumers ensures that all these legal obligations are met. In addition, banks must have a clear communication on the alternatives that are proposed, taking into account their obligation to provide minimum banking services to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u18	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear your explanations well and I understand your willingness and the obligation of the banks to inform, or even train, users of these new services. I will come back to this because the digital divide that you have mentioned is really essential today. Besides, everything's going very fast! Everything goes very quickly in the field of digitisation, digitalisation. And despite information or training, a whole part of the population does not follow. Today – it is the municipalist who speaks – it is the communes that make up for this lack of assistance, of training. In fact, they organise training in digitisation, etc. to its oldest population or to its most difficult population. But they can't do anything. It is therefore really important to follow up and allow these people, as you rightly said, to maintain their financial independence and not to have to depend on people who might be dishonest. If I may, I will return to the matter as soon as you have advanced and consulted with your administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u19	Colleagues, may I remind you that everyone wears their masks? I have to watch over that as chairman. I need to play a little policeman. Everyone except the speaker has to wear the mask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u20	Mr President, sometimes I would like to add one sentence to what is said. Could it or should it never be?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u21	In the Flemish Parliament that is allowed, but this is not possible in the context of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u22	Since March, the corona pandemic has encouraged small businesses to promote more card payments to customers, but fewer purchases are also paid through cash in stores. In addition, there has also been a greater shift from shopping to more online purchases. Also local traders jumped on that cart. This group of small traders is increasingly complaining about the fact that they face higher invoices for online payment platforms. This is not so much in the shops, where card transactions take place, but also when certain purchases are made online. When a large group participates in the system, one would expect that at the end of the journey it would further democratize those traders. Is there a reduction in these transaction costs or has the growing demand for online payments and card payments actually created an opposite effect? Do you find the question whether the concerns of those traders are relevant? Do you share that concern? Have you discussed this in the government, if any, and are there measures that you are taking against it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u23	Mr Van Lommel, the corona crisis has indeed reduced the share of cash payments, while the share of electronic payments has increased in the total volume of payments. However, due to the closure of shops in March to May, the total volume of payments fell sharply in those months. According to Worldline, the largest payment transaction processor in Belgium, there was an increase in certain sectors, but other sectors experienced a very significant decrease in the number of electronic payments. In the second quarter of 2020, at the start of the lockdown, there was even a total decrease in the number of electronic payments by 36% compared to last year. As a result, there are no changes in transaction costs or other costs related to electronic payment. These rates remain unchanged. There were special commercial actions here and there, such as Payconiq by Bancontact's initiative not to charge transaction costs in March and April. In order to be complete, it can be stated that the acquirers usually work with different packages and that as the trader has more electronic payments he can opt for formulas that include more electronic transactions. These formulas apply the degressive principle: the more transactions included, the lower the cost per transaction. Each type of payment has its own costs associated with it. These costs are partly determined by inter alia the intervention of different parties and the characteristics of the type of payment. A legal ceiling is laid down for the settlement fee of most payment cards. In order to go further in the price regulation of the cost of credit cards to be paid by the trader to his purchaser, this should primarily be analysed at European level, in accordance with the competition rules in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u24	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Card payments were promoted. Indeed, trade fell sharply in March and April, but this was offset by the number of transactions. I would like to express a particular concern on the part of the small traders here today. Small traders, who are less used to working with card payments and are now confronted with them, receive a higher invoice. I understand that a legal ceiling has been set, as you have just said. The trend in the future will be that the number of cash payments will decrease anyway. That's an evolution in society. We must therefore continue to monitor transaction costs so that they remain democratic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the national bank's monthly press release was published, in which they announced their poll of consumer confidence. I've been following these press releases from the National Bank since COVID-19 every month. It is striking, as we all know, that consumer confidence has been severely damaged. During the summer holidays there was a slight improvement in consumer confidence, but that has fallen again. The final poll was taken for last week's decisions by the National Security Council, i.e. the introduction of curfew and the closure of the catering industry. At that time, fears of rising unemployment remained particularly high among consumers. Despite numerous measures taken by the Wilmès Government to stimulate investment in companies or at least not to stop, confidence is also very low among entrepreneurs. They don't see the future as rosy. This means that companies continue to delay investments for a certain period of time and that consumers are inclined to consume less. We also saw in the poll that consumers would save more. I see in today's press release that this has changed slightly. This means that the aggregate demand in our economy is falling. Colleagues, we're on the Economics Committee, but I don't know if you're familiar with this principle. If aggregate demand falls, this will lead to a fall in prices. One could then go to deflation, but that would be to ensure that, because of the temporary measures that are being taken, companies do not go down and the supply remains the same. I belong to many entrepreneurs that the water is on their lips, despite the temporary measures. Before the summer holidays it was already predicted that there are a lot of corona bankruptcies coming, which will cause a lot of jobs to be lost. This justifies the decrease in consumer confidence. Companies will, of course, go bankrupt. Agglomerating supply will decrease, leading to a return to the higher price level, making it a partial repair. That is not the desired effect in an economy. So trust is at a low point. In April or March this had also reached a low point. Mr Minister, I would have liked to have expressed our concerns with you today, and do you recognise this problem of a reduction in consumer confidence and entrepreneurial confidence and that this will lead to a general decline in demand? What measures have already been taken within this government to restore consumer and business confidence? What measures are already in place? In what way does the federal government itself seek to contribute to the increase in aggregate demand? Demand in an economy is not only determined by what consumers buy and invest, but also by what governments themselves invest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u26	Mr President, Minister, much has already been said, so I will be brief. The most recent measures are causing confidence to shake again. This is certainly a blow to the economy. There will certainly be uncertainty among the people again, and less consumer confidence. People will have to save themselves to absorb any negative shocks. What will the government do to boost consumer confidence, still try to maintain it and not just to stimulate it by maintaining purchasing power if it is not used? There really needs to be consumption again. Can we have some insight into the measures you are going to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Verhelst, Mr Van Lommel, it is true that consumer confidence fell in August, following a slight improvement in June and July. In September, however, this turbulence was offset by a significant increase in confidence. However, the recent development of corona figures is likely to have a downward effect again. Furthermore, the September 2020 updated economic budget shows that annual GDP 2020 growth will be less negative than expected in June, i.e. at 7,4% instead of 10,6%. It also appears that the aid measures have so far been able to reduce job losses. I hope that message can also boost consumer confidence. I would also like to point out that deflation is defined as a general and sustained fall in the price level with negative effects on economic growth. Measured on the basis of the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices, total inflation in Belgium in August was negative, i.e.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, this negative inflation was partly due to a temporary phenomenon, as the shift from the selling period from July to August led to a fall in consumer prices for clothing and footwear. In addition, for several months there has been a very strong annual drop in prices for energy products as a consequence of the global crisis. For food and services, inflation has remained positive in recent months. The fall in the price level is therefore not general and it is therefore premature to talk about deflation, Mr Van Lommel. From the start of the crisis, many measures were taken to maintain or restore consumer and business confidence in the Belgian economy, including the following. Firstly, a relaxation of the conditions under which mortgage loans can be extended or the payment of capital repayments and interest can be temporarily postponed for borrowers with a loss of income due to the corona crisis. Secondly, it is also a question of extending certain deadlines for the completion of certain formalities which have been made difficult by the lockdown. Thirdly, it also concerns the exemption from payment of normally due contributions for legal persons who have published an annual accounts after the legal deadline due to the corona crisis. This concerns only the measures taken within my area of competence, namely economics. For measures in other areas, I would refer Members to the Ministers responsible, including the Secretary of State responsible for relance. For the increase in the aggregate demand, I would like to refer to the 2021 economic budget of September 2020, which indicates that the economy is recovering under the impetus of exports and private demand. In 2021, the Belgian economy would grow by 6.5 %. In fact, the real income available to individuals has been maintained fairly well thanks to the economic stabilizers that exist in our country, including the system of temporary unemployment, the right to bridge and the premiums for loss of income. Public investment will also quickly normalise. In addition, the European Commission will propose a new consumer programme that takes into account the effects of the current crisis. This new consumer agenda will focus on the digital and the environment. It has become clear that these two issues are a priority for consumers and at the same time for many companies, who want to develop that aspect of their trade policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand, of course, that a fall in the price level is not the same as deflation or economic growth. I understand that, of course. However, we can see that if the price level continues to fall, it could lead to a certain deflation in the future. I know that both are separate, but at the same time they are not. You note that there is no deflation at the moment, because there is still no reduction in prices in certain sectors. However, we must be careful not to see her. You refer to a number of measures taken in the bosom of the FPS Economy. For other measures, please refer to the Secretary of State for Relance. I understand that, of course, but that was also a bit of my concern when discussing the government statement. At the moment there are three ministers or secretaries of state for the economy. You're Minister of Economy. There's a Secretary of State for Relance. There is also a Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed and SMEs. This does not always make it easy to discuss the substance of the matter. You say that growth is expected at 6.5 % in 2021. However, I am concerned that we cannot say enough now because many indicators will be adjusted in the coming weeks, given the recent corona figures, the forthcoming measures and the predictions that the sanitary crisis could have a strong impact on our economy until spring next year. I'm not so sure about that growth at all. There is a need for more action. More action must be taken by the government. In this respect, I have tabled a motion for a recommendation, which I would like to present to the House. The motion effectively calls for a recovery plan to be drawn up, both for consumer confidence and for entrepreneurial confidence. The aggregation question, which I referred to earlier, must also be maintained. However, we must also use a number of levers that the federal government has to influence the decline in aggregate supply. In this way, bankruptcies can be avoided and a high level of unemployment can be avoided. I'll get you the motion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The positive news is that growth is expected at 6.5 % in 2021. We always assume the positive, but we also want to see it followed up by you. Keep us informed. A difficulty for us, Members of Parliament, to do our job well is that it is now with the Secretary of State for Relance and then with the other Minister. I hope you're having a good time. We should preferably consider the questions together so that we do not have to walk from one question to another with the same questions. That's just confusing. Good consultation would therefore be a good thing. I would just like to say that in the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda there has been a hearing on the high prices in the Belgian supermarkets. That is where the consumer really sees that prices have risen. A lot of explanations were given at that hearing. I have noted three main points in particular: Belgium has strict rules on sales in supermarkets; wage costs are the most decisive factor in this respect; and finally, Belgium is a small country. This is part of the purchasing power of the supermarkets, along with obstacles to buying elsewhere, with all regulatory restrictions on sales. I think we should look at that again. This will improve consumer and market protection and boost confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u30	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the shaky consumer and business confidence since the outbreak of the corona virus, - whereas the confidence of consumers and entrepreneurs is an important basis for the current state of our economy; - having regard to the re-flammation of the coronavirus which will last for some time, - whereas an overall decline in aggregate demand implies a fall in prices and resulting deflation, as aggregate supply remains temporarily unchanged. If more companies are in difficulty (because, for example, temporary measures would be insufficient), this will translate into more bankruptcies, more unemployment and thus a fall in aggregate supply, which in turn will lead to an increase in the price level; - having regard to the report of the National Bank on consumer confidence, a fall in confidence is caused by the much more bleak economic outlook and the increased fear of unemployment; - whereas companies and their jobs must be protected; asks the government - to develop a recovery plan without delay for consumer and entrepreneurial confidence and thus to maintain aggregate demand; - to effect the necessary economic levers which have a knock-on effect on the decline in aggregate supply.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - given the fragile confidence of consumers and entrepreneurs since the appearance of coronavirus; - Whereas the confidence of consumers and entrepreneurs is an important basis for the current situation in our economy; - in view of the resurgence of the coronavirus, which will persist for some time; - Whereas a general decrease in aggregate demand implies a fall in prices, which will result in deflation because aggregate supply will remain temporarily unchanged. If more firms find themselves in difficulty (because, for example, temporary measures were to be insufficient), this will lead to an increase in the number of bankruptcies, an increase in unemployment and thus a reduction in aggregate supply, which in turn will lead to an increase in the level of prices; - having regard to the National Bank's report on consumer confidence, which is going down again because of the much darker economic outlook and an increased fear of unemployment; Whereas the undertakings and the jobs resulting therefrom must be protected; asks the government - to develop without delay a recovery plan for consumer and business confidence and thus to maintain aggregate demand; - to activate the necessary economic levers which will enable the downward movement of aggregate supply to be reversed." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Prévot. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u31	Mrs. Depoorter is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u32	Minister, a load of mouth masks was rejected. Given the precarious situation in which we are, can it not come to a re-examination of this now rejected fate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u33	The masks mentioned were originally presented to customs as personal protective equipment that met the Chinese standard for KN95 masks. However, the documents needed to demonstrate this conformity were lacking. These masks therefore do not comply with the applicable Belgian and European legislation. Nor can it be demonstrated that they were in line with the temporary Chinese standard. The masks were therefore blocked because their safety for use by health professionals could not be guaranteed. They were tested and the result of this test was not good. The shape of the masks causes them not to close properly. These masks can only be worn by healthcare professionals if they are covered with medical tape at the nose. Each pack should therefore be provided with a sticker with this warning. These are masks which have already been found not to comply with the applicable safety requirements. In addition, it is found that even with an announced final check, the importer is not able to ensure that each box is handled correctly. My services have therefore advised that these masks cannot be allowed in Belgium and on the European market. After mutual agreement, the customs authorities decide in such cases that these masks may only be destroyed or re-executed. Since the communication of this opinion to the importer, the importer has no longer provided any further information to my services for the shipment in question. I am therefore not aware of the certificate you are talking about. I do not rule out the fact that the later productions do have the necessary certificates and have a better fit, so that they do not show the leaks of this load of masks. The rules are applied in the same way for everyone. The protection of the care staff requires strict compliance with the rules. If masks are distributed without proper warning, caregivers risk mistakenly thinking they are protected, leading to a risk of protection. The responsibility for carelessness lies not with the FPS Economy, but with the company that wrongly declared that all boxes were provided with the necessary warning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u34	It's about 500,000 mouth masks. That's a very large number. I understand that they cannot be assigned to the care staff. That is certainly not the issue, but there is a way in between, so that also those masks should not be unnecessarily destroyed. I am thinking of situations where there is real poverty of opportunity or of schools, which are sometimes dealt with sloppyly. Let us assume that they can have a destination. On the other hand, the entrepreneur might be able to reconnect with the supplier. Maybe it can consider a corresponding re-delivery at a reduced price.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u35	Minister, I had initially addressed this interplay to your colleague Dermine, the Secretary of State for Relance. I would just like to point out that it is difficult to determine which minister we should address on a particular subject. There is no doubt that the second wave has been deployed, which cannot be denied. This revival has already hit our economy and will give it even heavier blows in the coming months. Many economic experts agree that our economy would not survive a second lockdown. It was therefore somewhat chilling to hear from the press today that the Prime Minister stated that a second full lockdown was possible for the coming period. Above all, we must dare to learn lessons from the lockdown we had in March and April, but perhaps we should also look beyond the borders to see how this has been dealt with abroad. Whether there will be a second lockdown is not clear at the moment. I can only hope that there will not be one because that would be disastrous for employment, for entrepreneurs and for companies in our country. We don't want to know what our economy would look like after that. The National Bank was very clear and stated that this would cost us several percentage points of economic growth in any case. Initially, a decrease of 9% was assumed this year. However, if more stringent measures were to be introduced in the next period, even with some sort of lockdown, it would rapidly fall to 13.4% of GDP. That would mean almost 21 billion more in economic damage. Mr Minister, in the past I have already submitted an interview to Minister Ducarme, who is responsible for SMEs and small and medium-sized enterprises, because certain sectors are likely to be forgotten. These are sectors which do not find the road to the Rue de la Loi easy to express their concerns, but which do face a lot of problems. I am thinking, for example, of the monitoring sector and the tourism sector. In the meantime, the event sector has also been advocating perspective for months. I understand that offering a perspective at the moment is not so easy, but those involved still do not know what and where. Sometimes measures can be taken as a function of a number of sectors, but often there are chains attached to them, such as supply companies or the transport sector, which are also affected at the same time. I can go on like this for a long time. We must also, as a matter of urgency, dare to make a definition of what are really badly affected sectors. This term is used in the media and in Parliament, but I think that we need to be able to define it so that we can approach the sectors affected in an objective way. Minister, I have just spoken about the lessons that we should be able and dare to draw from the first lockdown. Meanwhile, we have a new government. What lessons do you, as a government, draw from the first lockdown, in the context of the economic damage? In this committee we are not discussing the sanitary crisis, just the economic damage. Have any measures been adopted abroad which may also be applied in Belgium or may already be in effect, as a result of the reduction of economic damage, but also the subsequent step, in particular the economic revival? What preparations has the government made for economic damage as the virus flares up? That certainly doesn't seem unimportant to me. Which sectors have you identified as extra vulnerable at this time of the second corona wave? Which sectors do you think are particularly affected? A wave of bankruptcies has been predicted and is likely to come, despite all the temporary measures taken to maintain the liquidity position of the companies. In what way does the government intend to continue to do so, in order to avoid the wave of bankruptcy? Does the government consider the existing aid package to be sufficient or is it currently working on an additional package of measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u36	Mr Van Lommel, thank you for your question to Secretary of State Dermine. We know that the corona pandemic has serious consequences for our economy. After all, the health crisis has caused both supply and demand shocks, leading to a severe recession. It is therefore important that Belgium avoids a second overall lockdown. That is why the government has decided to limit closures to certain sectors. It is important to continue to support businesses through liquidity support, temporary unemployment or a bridging right. The European Commission strongly encourages Member States to include in their recovery plans investments and reforms in the field of environmental and digital transitions, in order to create sustainable growth and jobs, which is a slope I strongly support. All the countries of the European Union have introduced similar measures, including temporary unemployment and deferred payment of social contributions, in order to support companies during the health crisis. I have already reminded you that the government has already taken many measures, such as temporary unemployment, the right to bridge, the delay in payment of social security contributions and the possibility of a bank guarantee. We have also just blocked an envelope of EUR 500 million to help the sectors directly affected. The main difficulty for the economy is the recovery of private consumption, which remains in the red. We can congratulate our fellow citizens on the reverse attitude they are facing. As in the first wave, even during the second wave, the sectors that are most intertwined with our social life are once again affected. I am thinking here of the catering industry, the arts, entertainment and recreation sector or the event sector. The authorities in this country took various forms of support to ensure the continuity of businesses. Companies may, among other things, get deferred payment for different taxes. Self-employed persons can rely on the right of bridging. There are also regional premiums for the affected companies. We hope that this will safeguard the liquidity of the companies. The temporary freezing of the bankruptcy proceedings may certainly have played a role in this. Nevertheless, I am aware that this restoration of liquidity position is not yet a guarantee of medium-term success. The government must continue to monitor the situation and ensure the sound liquidity of our companies. It cannot be the intention that previously financially sound companies that made a good contribution to our economy should disappear from the market because of the corona crisis. We are currently in the economic wake of a sanitary crisis that has unfortunately not yet been overcome. The government is therefore particularly committed to clear but fair communication. We want to make the public aware of the seriousness of the situation, on the one hand, to avoid worse, both in health and economic terms, and, on the other hand, to reduce uncertainty. It is above all this uncertainty that has a negative impact on confidence. In the most recent September confidence survey, we already note that consumers are more positive in terms of finance and that companies are seeing demand increase. The government pays attention to the general functioning of the economy, which it has already demonstrated by taking important measures. Additional measures are currently being examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I understand, of course, that it is very difficult to strike a balance between the sanitary measures and the economic needs, but we must, in any case, try to avoid a second lockdown. We need to get everything out of the closet to make sure there's no second lockdown. If there is, I fear that we will live in an economic graveyard over the next few years. We should definitely avoid that. You say that there has been a restriction to certain sectors. I know which sectors you are referring to, because you have just indicated that this is, among other things, about the catering industry, but that debate will soon be extended to Mr Clarinval. For the rest, you refer to sustainable growth and employment in the future. Okay, but I think that's more of a supplement. I think that politics should focus on the companies that exist today. It is true that we may have quick wins in the future in terms of sustainability, which can bring about growth, but that does not solve today's problems. The survival rate for entrepreneurs is particularly important. You are talking about an envelope of EUR 500 million, which goes to the sectors directly affected, especially the catering industry. As I said earlier, a lot of other sectors and types of companies are also having a very difficult time today. In fact, it goes so far that entrepreneurs have slipped through the loopholes of the network in recent months and have barely been able to benefit from the necessary support measures. This sometimes causes poignant scenes, the stories of those entrepreneurs go through marrow and bone. The measures taken are, of course, temporary. That is indeed the most important thing now. Now is not the time to take structural measures. However, temporary measures only help temporarily. Therefore, despite the temporary measures, businesses are still on their gums. In the meantime, many workers have been constantly on economic unemployment for months according to the known 70% formula, which was invented because of the corona crisis. These workers do not yet have a view of when they could go back to work. So it's not all that simple. The existing temporary measures are therefore necessary, but I believe that additional measures will be needed to reduce the wave of bankruptcies as much as possible. In this sense, we have prepared a motion in which we call on the government not to set up a second lockdown, but to ensure that it is avoided at all times, given the economic damage that a second lockdown would cause. One element to which you have not replied is the objective framework that needs to be developed to determine precisely which sectors are severely affected. We need to map the sectors that are seriously affected. I have just indicated that there are companies and sectors that feel abandoned today and do not have tentacles up to here in Parliament. Some of them do have those tentacles. That makes it particularly difficult for them. Once the sectors which have been seriously affected have finally been identified, we must also enter into consultation with them. This is a very important task for both the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Self-employed. We also call for additional support measures to be developed to ensure that the liquidity position of the companies concerned is safeguarded as far as possible, so that they can ultimately be able to survive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u38	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy and Work, - having regard to the loss of turnover achieved in several sectors since the outbreak of the coronavirus, - having regard to the rekindling of the coronavirus which gives our economy an additional strong blow and will last for some time; - whereas our economy would not survive a second lockdown; - having regard to the economic contraction of 9% previously predicted by the National Bank, which would rise to 13.4% of GDP in the event of a further outbreak with stricter measures, which would mean almost EUR 21 billion of additional economic damage; - having regard to the general measures taken previously by the Government as a result of reducing the economic damage caused by COOVID-19, - having regard to the government's previous commitments for specific sectors including catering, - having regard to the absence of an objective approach to the definition of "heavy affected sectors," - considering that there are many sectors which need necessary and specific measures, but do not have a voice to express concerns to the Parliament and which threaten to be 'forgotten' or disappear in the background, such as in the non-limitative sense the monitoring sector, tourism, perspective for the event sector, supply companies linked to heavily affected sectors, transport sector, etc.; - whereas thousands of corona bankruptcies were predicted for the summer and thus for the second wave; - considering the need to protect companies and their jobs; asks the government: - avoid an overall new lockdown at all times and make every effort to reduce the economic damage caused by the second corona wave; - develop an objective framework for the definition of "heavy affected sectors"; - identify and consult with the sectors which are seriously affected; - in view of the ongoing sanitary crisis, to develop a new package of aid measures designed to safeguard the liquidity position of companies and to improve their chances of survival." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Labour, - in view of the loss of turnover in different sectors since the appearance of coronavirus; - in view of the resurgence of the coronavirus which inflicts a serious blow on our economy and which will continue for a while; - Whereas our economy would not survive a second confinement; - in view of the National Bank's forecast of an economic contraction of around 9%, which would reach 13.4% of GDP in the event of a new pandemic accompanied by more severe measures, which would amount to almost €21 billion in additional economic damage; - in view of the general government measures previously taken to limit the economic damage caused by the crisis of the VOCID-19; - in view of the previous commitments made by the Government in respect of specific sectors, including the Horeca; - in view of the absence of objective apprehension of the definition of "severely affected sectors"; - Whereas many sectors require necessary and specific measures but, since they do not have a spokesperson to relay their concerns to Parliament, they may be 'forgotten' or disappear in the background, such as, as a non-exhaustive measure, the caretaker sector, tourism, prospects for the event sector, subcontractors linked to seriously affected sectors, the transport sector, etc.; - Considering that thousands of bankruptcies related to the coronavirus crisis had already been predicted before summer and thus even before the second wave; Whereas it is important to protect the enterprises and the jobs they generate; asks the government - to avoid at all costs a new general containment and to make every effort to limit the economic damage resulting from the second wave of coronavirus; - to develop an objective framework for the definition of "severely affected sectors"; - identify the sectors seriously affected and engage in consultation with them; - in view of the continuing health crisis, to develop a new set of support measures aimed at safeguarding the position of companies in terms of liquidity and increasing their chances of survival." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Patrick Prévot. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u39	Mr President, I simply wanted to know whether it was possible to turn an oral question on the agenda into a written question and whether, in those circumstances, the Minister, as has always been done, can then immediately give me the answer to the oral question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u40	That's not normally a problem. We can answer your question. Transform 55010007C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u41	The Minister prepared a powerpoint presentation containing an overview of the implementation of the previous Catering Resolution as well as of the new measures. Its handouts have been distributed. I suggest that we first listen to the Minister's presentation. A lot of questions have also been put. I will then give everyone the floor in order for questions that have not yet been answered, for replies and comments. You will see what you want to say in the exchange of views. Well, you'll have to judge that for yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u42	Mr President, as you have pointed out, I will make a brief presentation, a summary which I will present to you as soon as possible. We can then go further in the questions if you wish. As we know, the hospitality sector is paying a heavy price for the corona crisis. Since the beginning of March, the various phases of the sanitary measures have had a very negative impact on our self-employed and SMEs, but also on the workers concerned. In the catering industry this resulted in the closure on 16 March and the reopening on 8 June. Last Friday, the government decided to close the catering business again for a month, with an evaluation after 15 days, a regrettable but collective decision that I have to accept. After this decision, a strong gesture had to be made, a strong support for the heavily affected sectors. Together with the Minister for Economy and Work, Pierre-Yves Dermagne, I have obtained a special crisis envelope of half a billion euros to support the sectors affected by the measures taken in the context of the sanitary crisis. It is about the catering industry - hotels, restaurants, cafés, caterers, operators of discotheques and party rooms - but also about the event sector - organizers of events, landlords of discotheques, the professions from the cultural and spectacle sectors and the foorkramers. In the context of this exchange of views, I will divide my speech into three parts. Firstly, the measures taken by the government that respond to the questions raised in the resolution. You will find that they are almost completely in agreement. Secondly, the aid to the catering industry, taken in the wake of the Consultative Committee of 16 October, in particular the decision to close down the catering industry. Finally, I will talk about the preparation of a Federal Horeca Plan 2021 and a hibernation plan. Now I'm going to go to PowerPoint and be more synthetic than during my presentation in order to be faster. In fact, it is the debate that counts above all. Resolution 1252/5 deals with some 20 measures that have been voted on by Parliament. I can tell you that almost all of them were executed. As regards the bank guarantee, there is a law granting a State guarantee for certain loans to SMEs in the fight against the consequences of coronavirus and amending the law of 25 April 2014 on the status and control of credit institutions and stock exchange companies. Point 2.a provides for the exemption of estimated losses for the year 2020. This was executed by what is called the carrier-back measure. Point 2.b provides a tax credit for businesses that did not have to pay tax in 2020. This was accomplished through a measure to reduce the disadvantage of deferred advance payments. Point 3 concerns the suspension of rents. It should be borne in mind that this matter falls within the competence of the Regions. However, I have recently sent a letter to my colleague Gilkinet in which I ask him to do something for all the tenants of the stations. This mail was sent a few days ago. But I do not doubt for a moment that my colleague Gilkinet will give it a good follow-up. Point 4 relates to a demand for economic unemployment in Corona. This matter falls within the competence of my colleague, Mr Dermagne. This measure is in progress. Point 5 refers to consultation with insurers and energy suppliers. I can tell you that my predecessor met Assuralia. As far as energy suppliers are concerned, I know that cross-cutting measures have been taken at regional level. Point 6 refers to the right of accompaniment during the recovery period. This measure was carried out via a bridge right of support to recovery which was extended last week until the end of the year. Point 7 relates to terraces. This is rather a communal competence. However, federal measures to prevent VOCID-19 have never prevented the development and expansion of terraces in accordance with health regulations. Measure 8 is the increased deduction of the costs associated with VOCID-19. It was carried out by a deduction for investments temporarily increased to 25 per cent. In the government agreement, it was decided to extend this increased deduction for investments for two years. Demand 9 is the increase in the ONSS horeca reduction. The extension beyond 2020 of the exemption from employer contributions for hiring the first employee is also included in the government agreement. This still needs to be translated into law, but the principle is acquired. Item 10 relates to the annual contribution from AFSCA. I think you voted last week to abolish the annual contribution of AFSCA 2020 for horeca establishments, which had also been carried by my predecessor. Point 11 relates to the dialogue with the event sector. In a few days, I've met him several times. I allow myself a small parenthesis: it must be recognized that it is very difficult to have a clear perimeter to define the event. The work we are currently undertaking is to determine as precisely as possible what is fully apparent from the event and is therefore directly affected by the current closure, which is a little further away from it. This requires work with the federations in particular on the impact of NACE codes. With regard to measure 12, namely the commercial lease and the regulation of breweries and concessions contracts, I have been informed of two things. First of all, in the Netherlands there is the "Handelshurlening" scheme which we believe is interesting and which should be discussed in the framework of the inter-ministerial consultation which we intend to set up shortly. This is a technique that allows the State to take over rent provided that there is an agreement on a voluntary basis by the lessor to cover part of the rent. It is a form of incentive to enter into agreements to relieve tenants of their rents. This device is Dutch. In addition, I recently met with the Brewery Federation. They told me that, in the first phase, they had strongly supported their tenants by removing certain rents. Not all breweries have done so, but many have done so spontaneously. Point 13 relates to the alignment of the policy with that of the Regions. It should be pointed out that this requires consultation. I know that my colleague Mr Dermagne has convened a CIM in this regard. I don't have the date in mind anymore, but I know it's very soon. Measure 14 is a targeted use of public resources. The extension of targeted measures and measures to take account of the specific impact of the crisis is also on the table. Measure 15 aims at administrative simplification. We have also taken up a whole series of measures in the government agreement. We are working with the employers' federations to ensure that the funds which pay the bridge right do so spontaneously, with the possibility of ex post checking, to avoid wasting time in the a priori verification, which itself is wasting time in the granting of these allowances. It is a way to simplify administratively, to speed up the granting of allowances. Measure 16 concerns the innovative solution with sectors and regions. I confess that since I was in charge, I have been in constant contact with the sectors – not later than this morning again. Concertations are also under way with the Regions and are planned to have effective measures. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u43	I'm so sorry. The PowerPoint is in Dutch. Excuse me, it's my fault! Measure 17, 6% VAT for horeca, was voted. It is in force until 31 December. The sector is obviously asking for an extension. For measure 18, the coaching function of the inspection services, instructions were given for an approach to this. With regard to measure 19, provision is made for the packaging of support measures to ensure that the measures taken are monitored. Mr.President, I agree that it is quite fast, but that is what I was asked to do: a brief summary of the measures that had been adopted. We can now move on to the second part of the October 16 action submission. In the framework of the Concertation Committee, we have secured EUR 500 million for measures in 2020 in support of the sectors I have already mentioned, i.e. Horeca, events and fairgrounds. There are four measures. The first is the doubling of the right bridge of crisis for those sectors which are forced to close or which are linked, almost exclusively to sectors which are obliged to close. I take the example of a beer supplier who supplies exclusively to Horeca. These independents will benefit from an amount doubled the bridge right. This increases from €1,291 for an isolated independent to €2,583 and from €1,614 for an independent with a dependent family to €3,228. The amount is therefore doubled during the period of closure. As soon as we reopen, this double bridge right ends. As I have also told you, the bridge right to take over has been extended until December 31, 2020. Current conditions are prolonged (-10% compared to the previous year, in the previous quarter). I come to a new measure for which there was agreement at this Conciliation Committee. Now all this has to be translated into legislation. This is the state's assumption of the end-of-year premium, always for these sectors, i.e. the Horeca, the event and the fairgrounds. As you know, these sectors could not be open to certain periods. It is hoped that workers in these sectors will receive their year-end premium. There is no reason why they should be punished, but on the other hand, those companies that have not worked do not have sufficient cash to pay this year-end premium. There will therefore be State intervention for a total or partial take-over of this year-end premium. Finally, the fourth measure is an exemption from ONSS contributions for the third quarter. It's not a postponement. It's a third-quarter exemption, still for those companies I've just talked about. The third part of my presentation is continued support. As already announced in plenary during the various questions, we are working with my colleagues Dermagne, Van Peteghem and Vandenbroucke on a federal Horeca 2021 plan and a plan called "Hibernation" but whose name may be changed. The Horeca 2021 plan could be extended and new measures could be taken to support this hard-hit sector. The Hibernation Plan is a plan that would be implemented if a new containment were to be declared. If the epidemic continues to grow, the situation may require us to take further containment measures, primarily for the event that was seeking a long-term perspective. For this sector, it is very difficult to have alternations between times when workers can schedule activities and times when these activities are cancelled. This generates costs and this temporal uncertainty is counterproductive. This sector would prefer, if new containment measures were to be taken, to be confined for a long time – I say six months, for example – to avoid these workers going back and forth. In this case, companies should be accompanied in a specific way so that they are not completely bankrupt. That is what we are working on with my colleagues at the moment. Mr President, I have tried to be as comprehensive as possible in the presentation and I am obviously open to questions that colleagues would like to ask me about this set of documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u44	As far as the working method is concerned, a lot of questions and interplay requests have been submitted. I shall give the floor on the basis of the order of transmission. Anyone who has not tabled a question may nevertheless take the floor in the exchange of views. After that, the Minister will be able to replicate again on a number of points.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u45	Minister, I told Mr Dermagne earlier that the government is faced with a difficult balancing exercise, which must take account of the sanitary crisis on the one hand and the economic crisis on the other. You will recall my question in plenary a few weeks ago to give us figures that justify the lockdown of the catering industry. It is true that reference was made at the time to the catering industry when it was about trying to avoid social contacts. Well, we are not scientists, we are politicians. We are supposed to be holding political discussions in Parliament and taking political decisions. This means that decisions such as those for the catering industry must be sufficiently well-founded by scientific figures. That's the problem now. These figures are not sufficiently available. Some say that 1% of the infections are caused by the catering industry, others say 3 %. However, no one can prove how the fork is really on the handle. At that time that is very acidic for the catering companies, who were already treated with a lockdown in March and April and were only allowed to wake up from the lockdown very gradually later. In fact, they have seen a lot of their invested capital evaporate. I therefore understand the concern and anger of the people in the hospitality industry, who complain that they are being looked at, when they cannot be supported. I find it particularly strange that the National Security Council should take a decision which has an impact on the whole country, whereas according to the map of the infections, the problem is mainly in Brussels and the southern part of the country and much less in Flanders. Understand who can understand. Moreover, the measures you have mentioned here today, which are obviously necessary, may not be enough and, if they continue, there will be a social massacre in the catering industry. I am very concerned about this, all the more so because the sector accounts for 135 000 jobs. It is now about freezing the liquidity position as much as possible and ensuring that expenditure is tempered as much as possible. After the lockdown, however, many catering companies will have to put down the books and then what about all the employees they employ? Many catering entrepreneurs are often family entrepreneurs and have taken a lot of risks, sometimes even by investing their last savings in their business. The sector was already struggling for the corona crisis. I therefore continue to have a particularly difficult time with the fact that you have acted from a gut feeling and not from figures. A few weeks ago, you could not even give me the figures and arguments with which ministers defend themselves in debates or interviews in the media. I am pleased that you will be aware of the collateral damage caused by sub-contractors, among others, and that you also want to involve the event sector in the story. There has been no prospect for this sector since March. There is a strong focus on the catering industry and its relance, while the event sector was often overlooked. Minister, I can only hope that you will not forget the other sectors as well. It is a good thing that we are discussing the catering industry here today, but as I said to your colleague earlier, other sectors are having a very difficult time today. These are often small entrepreneurs, who have even slipped through the loopholes and are not eligible for any aid. I hope that you will also sit around the table with these sectors in order to offer them the necessary prospects. It is, of course, a good thing that the Chamber has unanimously approved the emergency plan for the catering industry and that far-reaching measures have been taken. I hope, however, that the full resolution will be translated into practice. Furthermore, since you cannot in fact provide demonstrable figures, we urge you to lift the lockdown immediately. Today, I see exactly the same scenario as the previous government: you are going blind and you are taking measures that you think you should take at some point. The corona virus spreads far beyond the hospitality business. You may have the impression that a mass of people is infected there, but studies show convincingly that, for example, the workplace is no less risky than a catering establishment. You have considered very few facts. I therefore fully understand the furious reactions of the catering industry. At some point it sounded like they were like a bulb shop that one can close, open and close at will. Minister, Flemish Interest has also taken a number of measures. We are thinking, for example, of postponing the payment of VAT. Yesterday the deadline for the third quarter of the VAT return expired. So there was to be paid yesterday on the federal government's account and many catering entrepreneurs may not have been able to carry out the VAT transfer in accordance with the declaration due to cash flow problems. I can only hope that in such situations you will not impose the VAT fines in force. You should also dare to consider postponing VAT payments for the coming quarters as a solution. The previous government has taken the measure to neutralize as much as possible the increase versus the bonification by advance payments for corporation tax and the personal income tax for self-employed persons. That was for the third quarter. In corporation tax, both were raised to 6,75 %, which meant neutralisation. However, for the fourth quarter there is still a discrepancy of 1.5 %. There would be an increase if entrepreneurs made a further advance payment in December. I therefore ask you to urge the government to neutralize the bonification versus the increase, even in the last quarter of this year. For example, you should also dare to look at certain measures to maintain liquidity among catering companies. For example, this could be a kind of bridging loan, for small amounts of between EUR 10,000 and EUR 50 000, with the government guaranteeing a substantial part of it. Through this small credit corona one could give the catering companies extra oxygen. The banks will not simply be able to provide additional credit, with additional financial resources, for the catering companies. Minister, how do you and your government view the measures I have just listed? Finally, I would again like a clear answer to the question on which the lockdown of the catering industry is based.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u46	Mrs Vanrobaeys is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u47	Mr President, Minister, of course we are all aware here of the situation in which the entire horeca sector is in. Since April, since the first closure, the situation in this sector has been extremely complicated. There was, of course, a reopening, but in a very complex health situation. And we know how the government's latest decisions last Friday to shut down coffees and restaurants for two to four weeks plunge a whole sector into great difficulties and even, for some, a dramatic situation. These are men and women who are affected in their economic activities. But beyond this aspect, there is also the aspect of conviviality. The Horeca allows, in fact, to meet, to exchange, to have moments with family, with neighbours, friends, but also to brighten our neighborhoods. Whether in urban or non-urban areas, this goes far beyond the economic impact for those who enter the horeca sector. It is also employment that is rooted in us. That is why this sector is dear to environmentalists. This is non-relocable employment, for small structures, small enterprises, SMEs, self-employed, self-employed. It is therefore important for us to accompany them during this extremely complicated period. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for coming to Parliament so quickly after these first steps have been taken. Indeed, as you know, a text was voted on last June (the horeca plan) at the initiative of Ecolo-Groen. That is why my political group has asked to be able to hear you very quickly, after the announcements last Friday. We would like to know what has been done in this plan, which includes some 20 measures and which has been voted on very broadly in Parliament. Our main objective is to see what the latter can still do – indeed, Parliament and, in any case, my group are at your side – to support the sector as much as possible by taking action. The government is obviously very active. He has, moreover, announced a package of measures which we fully support. But a whole series of measures can also be taken at the initiative of Parliament. I would point out that measures have already been taken in connection with the vote on this resolution. It is therefore very important to be able to take stock of the issue. The logic of the time, which is, moreover, always the same was, in case of closure – this is the situation in which we find ourselves – to identify all the costs, all the costs that all entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs of the Horeca have to face. This was the logic of the 20 measures of the horeca plan. This is why there is talk of economic unemployment, of the contribution of the AFSCA, of a freeze during the closure. The same applies to rents – you referred to it – when the federal state owns it. That is the subject of the resolution. Indeed, everyone knows that there are impacts at other levels of power. That was, in any case, the logic of the resolution that we put forward with other colleagues last June. I wanted to go back to other points and the first one, because you referred to it, is that of the bank guarantee. Yesterday, in the Finance Committee, we received the President of the National Bank, who has come to explain the evolution of loans over the last few months. It is realized that the number of loans used under this bank guarantee is not higher than the loans granted in recent years. At your level, do you feel that you need to play the game more, because they have this state guarantee? Will you see them again? Compared to the Horeca sector, which is not always well regarded by the banking sector, is it not time to ask them to make an extra effort knowing that the State guarantee is still active? I wanted to review point 5 on insurers. You said there was a consultation. But is there a result with Assuralia? Will premiums be suspended, reduced or otherwise? Do you have any information in this area? On point 9 of the reduction in ONSS contributions: what is found in the resolution relates to the current measure which applies, for the first ten workers, a reduction of the quarterly ONSS, i.e. 900 euros per quarter for those under 26 and 500 euros for the others. The idea is to see if it is still possible to reduce these amounts and to make an extra effort? I know that efforts have been announced. You announced the suspension of contributions. But I wanted to go back to that recommendation. In connection with point 10, as you pointed out, we voted last week for the suspension of the AFSCA contribution. Is the same type of scheme considered for all contributions such as those paid to SABAM for copyright? It is important to pay the copyright, but during the closing periods, in the middle of the night or in the Horeca, could one also imagine a suspension in proportion to the closure? For, in the same logic, we would freeze everything that is possible in terms of costs and charges for the horeca sector and the event in this case. I repeat that our group is at the side of the government and available in Parliament to vote for additional measures to think together about what may be at a later stage. You said you had other plans on the table. We are your partners in this regard, because horeca, local employment, local commerce are priority sectors for us. You can count on our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. They already take away a pack of my questions and show your willingness to switch into them quickly. What we are asking of the catering sector is absolutely not clear. We are talking about a sector which, as one of the first to close the doors, was able to reopen as one of the last with a series of restrictive measures and which is now being asked again to close the doors for four weeks. That is absolutely not evident and no one here knows what the next few weeks or months will bring for this sector. There is inevitably a sense of injustice and powerlessness in the catering sector. We can only acknowledge that feeling, but in recent days I have heard a great deal of sympathy from many catering entrepreneurs for the stringent measures that are unfortunately needed to protect our health, and for the government which is announcing a strong support package to bridge this difficult period. Minister, I would therefore also like to thank you for your explanation that the resolution has already been implemented to a large extent and that an additional package will be added. However, I still have two very specific questions which are very important for many. Our catering industry has shown itself to be particularly creative in recent months. For example, the sector switched very quickly to takeaway during this difficult period. I would like to hear from you whether the re-rolling of takeaway during this period has any impact on the aid measures. I would also like a little clarification on the right of bridging. There are a number of conditions attached to this. I wonder whether start-ups can fully benefit from this right. Indeed, it is difficult for them to demonstrate turnover losses. Finally, Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to repeat very briefly what Mr Van Lommel said. Mr Van Lommel, what you are doing here is really dangerous and completely inappropriate. You give the impression that the virus is a matter of Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders and that it has a border. You know as well as I do that Antwerp is one of the hotspots of this virus and that there is absolutely no limit. You give the impression that we should not worry too much in Flanders, which I find very disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u50	That's what you're telling me. You can make anything a Community matter. That is your right, but I personally consider it inappropriate and irresponsible for Members of this House to make such statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u51	Mrs. Depraetere, you can draw it on bottles as much as you like. However, please look at the figures and the maps as they are. What I am suggesting is that measures should be tailored to current situations. I'm not saying there's no COVID-19 in Flanders. That's not my point. That's the conclusion you're drawing. I'm just looking at the cards ahead. If I'm not allowed to report that here, that's particularly regrettable. You are talking about a sense of injustice. I understand that feeling of injustice among all those catering companies, who do not understand the measures, because you cannot provide figures that justify the measures. Mrs Depraetere, you have no figures that justify the hospitality industry being a hotspot of infections. You might want to explain that. After all, it is a dangerous game that you and your government are playing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u52	We will not have that discussion. I believe that the greatest increase is currently taking place in West Flanders. Mrs. Dierick is not here. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Vicaire.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u53	Minister, thank you for your very quick introduction, at which time you referred to the measures to support the Horeca and the event. I'm curious to know if you've had any knowledge of companies that go through the meshes of the net and are unable to work because they provide services to the event. I know, for example, a company from Écaussinnes that rents latrines. You'll tell me it's stupid. However, when you rent latrines, when there is no more festival and the Auto Show has been abolished, you find yourself in the pit - to say so. How are we going to ensure that the government will protect these types of businesses active in the event, while being relatively far away? I would point out that they are making huge investments, because dry and ecological latrines are absolutely necessary, while operating in a branch quite far from the event. How do you intend to include them in this half-billion euro plan, which represents a very high amount? In any case, you can count on the Ecolo-Groen group to support you in these steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u54	Minister, I also thank you for your presentation, which anticipated the questions I had tabled. Thank you for providing us with a snapshot of the situation and progress of your work in collaboration with your government colleagues. You know that you can count on my group to support you in your action. As has been said, this sector has been severely shaken by this crisis: a three-month closure, a reopening under very strict conditions, and the investments made by these women and men. In addition, two weeks ago, the cafés had to close at 11:00 p.m., before the current closure for a month. There are not many of our certainties, but we know one thing: the numbers are exploding and, in some cases, in the North as well as in the South. In any case, action must be taken. Our State must take initiatives to combat this health crisis, but also to be able to support sectors in difficulty. We talked a lot about the Horeca sector. I heard, and this is a glimmer of hope, that other measures were under consideration. As you said, you also worked on the 19 points or at least on the points that seemed to be priority given the budgetary context of the resolution that had been tabled in June. I am glad to hear also that a discussion had been opened with the breweries because I have many friends who have lease agreements with breweries and who have not, unfortunately, had the chance that others had to see their rent decrease or, in any case, benefit from a gesture from their owner. These people must continue to provide fixed costs, sometimes very high. I'm not even talking about the very complicated situation of the staff who have to live in most cases with 70% of the salary. As we know, they're people who don't have very high salaries. The removal of the AFSCA contribution was a good thing. We have fully supported it. I assume that other measures will be under consideration. Some had hoped that the AFSCA contribution of 2021 could be removed from the outset. It may be too early for the debate, but I think these are measures that can help the sector in the months and years to come. Indeed, it may take many more months to live with this virus. It is known that this is considered a measure, especially for establishments that do not employ or employ few personnel, but these various small, end-to-end measures can be a breath of oxygen for the Horeca sector. With regard to the event sector, which I had met, as some colleagues did a few weeks ago, his representatives complained because they were considered in the Horeca package but felt like they were doing a different job. The caterers and organizers of banquets are obviously not subject to the same regime. In addition, when re-opening their activities, it is sometimes necessary to wait several weeks or months before their activities resume. Indeed, I know few people who book a banquet of 30 people for the next day. It is therefore also a sector that will slowly restart. They should not be forgotten in the action to be taken. Perhaps this will be my only supplementary question, Minister. This weekend, as you said, you met with your government colleagues, representatives of Horeca sectors, caterers, representatives of night clubs, events, culture and fora. I assume that there is much more general reflection on these other sectors too. To repeat Mr Vicar's reflection earlier, there are also other sectors which are largely, if not 100%, dependent on the sectors which are at a standstill today. What is your more global thinking? Are there any other complementary measures for these sectors? In any case, thank you, and I can only encourage you to continue working for those sectors that are waiting for only one thing, that we can guarantee that they can still work tomorrow when we can reopen the Horeca institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u55	Mr Minister, we need to be clear: the health situation today - you have started your presentation with this - is very serious and indeed requires us to take steps to limit our social contacts to the maximum extent possible so that we can relieve hospitals as much as possible. The problem, raised by some of my colleagues, is that this decision, the total closure of the Horeca for a month, is experienced as a profound injustice. The Prime Minister, by the way, has again recognized this recently. Especially after all the efforts that have been made by the sector to be able to resume its activities: investments in plexiglas, the collection of data which we do not even know, finally, what we have done with it... All this to allow us to relive moments of conviviality so important in particular at the end of this confinement. I am thinking of all those who have not been able to go on vacation and who, therefore, have been able to have a pleasant social life in such difficult times. I therefore believe that the Horeca deserves explanations and answers to the questions concerning the decision to shut down its establishments altogether. And I am not questioning the seriousness of the crisis. Minister, can you tell us what are the objective data that indicate that bars and restaurants are, more than other sectors, vectors of transmission of the virus? Can you also tell us what is the current record of the tracing that has been carried out in restaurants and which has been implemented thanks to the cooperation and professionalism of the restaurateurs, whose primary mission is absolutely not? How much of this data was collected by the sector? I asked Minister Muylle the same question in committee on September 28. She had sent the ball back to the federated entities, which are competent in tracing matters, but also to the communal authorities, which, for their part, are competent for monitoring the collection of data by the restaurators. Has the consultation committee consulted these same sectors in advance, given that it had important data before deciding on the further closure of the sector? I also wanted to go back to the ministerial decrees which allow the mayors, when they find activities carried out in violation of these decrees, to order an administrative closure of the establishment in the interest of public health. However, how can the mayors decide to close establishments that do not comply with the rules, even though they do not have the statistical data that must be made available to them with regard to outbreaks of contamination? Will the closure of the Horeca be well evaluated after 15 days? If so, on what basis will this assessment take place? I think it is essential that the sector has prospects. Indeed, a horeca establishment - whether it is a bar or a restaurant - is often the project of a lifetime, to which all its savings and energy have been devoted. Operators therefore need perspectives in order to know how, in the long run, to get out of it. Has this closure of the Horeca been balanced with other solutions, such as the French model to impose a curfew starting at 9 p.m., which allows the Horeca to operate throughout the day as well as at the beginning of the evening? Why was this option, less radical than the one decided upon, not retained? As regards the measures to support Horeca as such, you first referred to the measures contained in the resolution we voted on last June. I recognize and thank you and your predecessor for the work they have done. As far as the suspension of insurance premiums is concerned, I agree with Mr Vanden Burre's question that there has indeed been a consultation on this subject. Nevertheless, what had been the result? As regards the supplementary support measures, you have detailed four of them which were discussed at the consultation committee on Friday and the next day, but without specifying how much of this famous €500 million federal envelope would be allocated to these four posts. Can you tell us whether the great diversity of the Horeca sector is taken into account in this distribution? If so, how? I would also like to know whether these measures will benefit all companies in the sector, including those that were no longer viable before the crisis, those that had negative funds and were in virtual bankruptcy. We know that the Regions have released a number of premiums, the amounts of which reach very different thresholds. Should the Federal Government not intervene by providing, too, a premium which would be granted not on a flat-rate basis but - as was the case in Flanders, and acknowledge that this was well thought out - on the basis of the annual figure of the undertaking, as well as on the basis of the number of workers? Indeed, the needs are not the same. Therefore, will you plead for the harmonisation of these regional premiums in order to avoid unfair competition between the regions, because this injustice is strongly felt by the institutions? You mentioned an ongoing consultation with the Minister of Employment, but should not a meeting with the Minister of Social Affairs also take place, with a view to refinancing the CPAS? I'm asking you the question because Horeca employs a lot of students. But these jobs will disappear. Therefore, I am concerned about the fate of these students who will have to knock on the door of CPAS. Will these organizations be supported in response to all these new requests? You also talked about the exemption from ONSS contributions for the third quarter. Shouldn't we go until the first quarter of 2021? Then the bridge right was extended and doubled. This is very good, but it can only be requested by those whose activity is totally stopped, following the closure of the Horeca - or assimilated -: caterers, night clubs, actors of the event. But what about suppliers, producers, brewers, as well as traders who work, for example, in commercial arteries and who need bars and restaurants to get customers through their doors? You have absolutely not mentioned all these sectors which are ultimately collateral victims of this total closure of the Horeca. You mentioned, for example, a mechanism that is in place in the Netherlands regarding the lease. It is under study and it is very good, except that there is an urgent need for these institutions. I also wanted to ask you about a moratorium on bankruptcies and layoffs. Is he under study? Finally, with regard to the two plans under preparation, these are important. Indeed, we must be able to go beyond short-term measures in order to have a real long-term support plan. There is no longer a sector support plan here, but it is more of a survival plan. This is important because alongside its dynamism, the Horeca sector is extremely fragile. It has a large number of workers under precarious status and a large number of bankruptcies are declared. What will be the overall budgetary impact of these two plans? You say in your memo on the hibernation plan that other sectors may suffer from stricter health measures. Unfortunately, we are talking more and more about a new total or partial confinement that would be announced on Friday. It will require arbitration between the various sectors. Horeca, as well as other sectors, could also experience this impact in the future. Finally, can you tell us whether the federal plan horeca 2021 will include a plan to combat social fraud? Indeed, your government agreement rightly insists on an increased fight against social fraud, but without further details as to the measures or actors involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. Allow me to say that on Friday you just pushed a lot of catering people with your back against the wall. They were near despair and probably still are. In fact, this would not have been necessary if there had simply been a road map available, a simple manual setting out the measures in force when certain thresholds were exceeded, and by which authority then decisions could be taken. This was not new, because as early as May we advocated that the road map should be there. Then the measure would not have come to light on Friday as a Thursday, and it would not still be in desperation. I hope that lessons can be learned from this for the very near future, for the other sectors, because our self-employed and our entrepreneurs really do need it. They are in very great uncertainty and do not want to see it again. They do not want to go back to a lockdown where the shops have to close and they see their life's work lost today tomorrow. Hence my appeal, Minister. It's part of your responsibility for that road map to arrive. Perhaps it is even more important for the mental well-being of our entrepreneurs than the support measures in themselves. For the rest, I am indeed yet another line, with the result that most of my questions have already been asked by others. I won't repeat myself. I should like to refer to my written questions. 55010034C, 55010036C and 55010037C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u57	This brings us to the end of the list of registered speakers. Is anyone else asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u58	Mr. Chairman, I confirm that I have tabled a simple motion on Mr. Van Lommel. Minister, if there's one thing I can say, it's that you're not responsible for the VOCID-19 because, when I hear what I hear, you're pretty much responsible for everything. But, in any case, VOCID-19, it's not your fault. The decision that has been made with regard to the Horeca is not a decision that you have made either. This is a decision taken by the National Security Council in relation to a situation whose contours are unknown but whose effects can be seen. No one is smarter than anyone else to find solutions. It is clear that the horeca sector is hit hard. And it is not just the MR who is a defender of the Horeca; we are all for private or public reasons. It is an area to which we are very attached. The National Security Council has decided to close the Horeca. This causes trouble and reactions. Nevertheless, one thing is certain, minister. It is that you, within the framework of your responsibilities, at least, have taken, as well as the government, the measure of the earthquake that was being caused and you are bringing in a plan that is already well developed with extensions of measures and new measures. It is well known that this will not solve all the problems and especially the problems of those who were already a little in difficulty before. But this will at least bring some relief. We must remember what the Governor of the National Bank said yesterday in the Finance Committee. When one sees the intervention of the Federal and the Regions to the tune of 4 billion euros, one realizes that this has, nevertheless, allowed to temper a little the catastrophic effects that were expected. This made it possible to maintain the activity and not to fall into the increase in the number of unemployed who were estimated to double or triple what was happening. The governor said that, given the current situation, we should not give up injecting one billion more, because this billion injected will produce effects and, even if it is difficult for Belgium, we will always get up sooner or later. What is needed is to ensure that we do not arrive at a 6 per cent deficit that would be unsustainable because it would lead to an increase in our debt. When one hears this authoritative opinion from the Governor of the National Bank, one thinks that, indeed, the means must be allocated to this situation. You do. You described a whole series of measurements. It is clear that more will have to be done. When I hear Mr. Van Lommel say that the government and you in particular seem to be moving forward without a compass, I think some people are losing the compass! Indeed, when we manage to make the community with such a serious and important issue, we lose the compass completely. When there were red areas in Flanders, Antwerp, etc., we did not begin to stigmatize Flanders. We've got to stop the mess! The situation is serious everywhere. We must take action because we do not know how it will evolve elsewhere. It should also be borne in mind that people are travelling in Belgium. The Walloons do not remain only in Wallonia, the Brussels Brusselsers and the Flemish in Flanders: the proof, we are side by side, and I sometimes regret it. People are moving. If we circulate, we can also spread. The measures that are being taken by the government, however unpleasant they may be – and we can see the reaction of the horeca sector that wants these measures to be reversed – must be taken collectively. You have to. We must stand in solidarity with the situation. Minister, I have no comment to make on your plan, which is already ambitious and costly, and which is certainly a good step in the right direction. On the other hand, what interests me is to know the appreciation you received, both from the horeca sector and from the event sector. How will this relate to what the Regions plan to do as well? Minister, I am not going to add to some of the questions that I have heard, including the closure of establishments by mayors who would not have statistics, etc. I assure you, the mayors assume their responsibilities. I've been here a long time. When we make a decision, we assume it. I have fellow mayors in this room. We make our decisions and we are accountable to everyone for our actions and decisions. When a mayor makes a decision, he knows what he does, and in general, he probably thinks more than some who make other decisions. Minister, thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u59	Mr President, when it comes to catering, I take the place of Mrs Dierick in committee, which is why she is not here. Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for your explanation. The announcement of the closing of the cafés and restaurants last Friday has been made by many catering operators, but also by the public, as a bomb. The fact that they will have to close for a period of four weeks, with an evaluation after two weeks, was interesting news. It led to a lot of disbelief in many people. However, we must not underestimate the current public health situation. I have the impression that some continue to do so. The pressure on hospitals, the number of infections and the number of hospital admissions and intensive care are increasing. The numbers are already higher today than during the lockdown. New and strict measures must first and foremost reduce the pressure on our hospitals. This is important not only for our public health, but also for our economy. It is therefore in everyone's interest that these measures be taken, no matter how harsh or amazing they might be. It is good and important that the sector should also receive compensation for this. The consequences are clear and harsh. A compensation plan, which you proposed immediately, is therefore very appropriate. Some restaurants try to restart a takeaway, but for café operators that is not an option. In addition to the catering operators and staff, many other self-employed people are also affected who are active in that chain or in des secteurs collatéraux, as Mr Rohonyi so nicely described. It is therefore good to keep the whole chain of suppliers in mind and also to take the necessary measures for them. The necessary measures will also have to be discussed with the travel and event sector, which has already been mentioned by several colleagues. For the catering operators it is important to be able to benefit quickly from a number of support measures. It is therefore a good thing that the Prime Minister announced on Friday that the federal government and the Länder will make every effort to support everyone who is economically affected, with an envelope of EUR 500 million. That's not nothing. The right of bridging will double. Additional aid measures will be extended and an exemption from RSZ contributions will be introduced. Moreover, the federal government will also provide funds to pay the end-of-year premiums. For the time being, the detailed work may still be lacking, but we have already had a lot of explanations about it. I have a number of questions about the package and the explanation you have just given, Minister. Reference has already been made to the law adopted in Parliament last week for the exemption of contributions to the BFSA. Mr Vanden Burre has already referred to it. What happens to other cost items for which the resolution proposes a freeze? I am thinking of Sabam. In your explanatory statement, you also referred to interviews with Assuralia for insurance premiums. Could you give me a little more explanation about the conversations about that? Is there a willingness on the part of the insurance sector to make certain concessions? As far as the support package is concerned, there has been consultation in the media with various affected sectors. The catering sector has been visiting, but not only the catering sector. Could you give me a little more explanation? Which sectors have been visited exactly? What consultation has already taken place? How will it be followed up? For the right of bridging, one of the key measures in the aid package, there will be a doubling of the contributions. Does this also apply to restaurants or businesses that organise take-out meals during forced closure? You said that it is a measure for the things that must be closed down, such as restaurants, but if they organise a takeaway, will they still be eligible? That is the case for the Flemish measure. In your explanatory statement, you also said that it also applies to those sectors which are exclusively linked. Can suppliers, for example, which depend on the catering industry for 80% of their income, but also have small activities elsewhere, also avail themselves of this measure or are not covered by it? I am also thinking of the brewers, food suppliers or farmers who supply the restaurants directly via the short chain. Are they also eligible for aid? Will they also be able to use that envelope?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your good presentation. It is very good that this committee meeting can be held today, so that the many questions that can be clearly asked can be answered. Insight always gives more confidence in the decisions that can then be better placed. The presentation also made it clear that the government is aware of the seriousness of the serious measure taken. As everyone has said here, there is a good feeling among the hotel and catering staff that it is unfair that this harsh measure has been taken only for them, despite the great efforts they have made. I argued for a long time that the people in a small bubble could still go to dinner until 22 hours and maybe go to hotel for a weekend with their family alone. Anyway, I understand this very difficult measure. Everyone has a hard time accepting him, but I think it is very good that we are getting a lot of explanation about him today. My question concerns the impact of the measures. If catering people have been creative, for example by organizing takeaway, or people in the event sector who have organised themselves in a different way to make their premises COVID-19 proof, it is important that they do not fall without support if they still need it. Is the fee equal for everyone? Last time there were small catering shops and weak companies that were very uncertain about their future even before corona. Is there any idea of the effect of reducing VAT to 6%? What did that do for the catering industry? Can that be quantified? There is another fair question that the catering industry rightly wants answered: what happens to the registrations that have happened in the catering business? Those people have all made an effort to register their customers. I therefore think it is a fair question for the hospitality industry to know what happened to these registrations. In the press there was a joint committee 302 for which support was provided, but the question is whether this also applies to hotels, campsites, holiday homes and youth accommodation, which are subject to joint committee 329? What is provided for the tourist attractions, which fall under Joint Committee 333? I have a general question. Your plan clearly shows that there is a need for long-term plans, later than the end of 2020, for certain measures. I hear they're still working on it. I also think it is very important for the federal government to contact the banking sector. There may be a delay in the repayment of capital and interest, but I hear from catering people that they sometimes have to be personally bailed out. I wonder what you'd do if you got that question. If one does not see a future, that is a very difficult question to answer. I believe that the government, which is certainly taking very good measures to alleviate the suffering as well as possible, should also take this into account. Many suppliers of the catering industry are not mentioned. There's a lot of business with bomb-filled fridges, laundries that were just for the catering industry. The hotel business also has to close, because if people don't find a restaurant nearby they don't usually go to hotel either. I also have a question about the new ministerial decision. We assume that the protocols in force will retain their legal basis until new ones arrive. Is this reasoning correct? If so, when can we expect the new protocols for the tourism sector? For the amusement parks, the new ministerial decision is very limited with information. Can we assume that the prevailing protocols will be maintained here too? Can we conclude from this that the principle of takeaway that is still possible for the restaurants also applies to the amusement parks, assuming that any kind of café and restaurant is necessarily closed anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u61	Then I give the floor to Mrs Vindevoghel. I would like to point out that there is no need to repeat the same questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u62	Minister, we should not draw a picture that it is terrible for the sector, both for the catering operators, for the people who work there and for the people who use it and who see their social lives reduced by it. In general, I would like to know how that decision was reached. I also have questions about the consultation of the sector. To what extent was the sector involved in the decision? Were there any other options or not? Then I have a question about the figures of tracing in the catering industry itself. Where did these infections come from? Are there really many infections in that sector? People feel they're being treated unfairly. They ask, "Why us?" They have not received sufficient answers to the fact that the infections would mainly come from that area. I'd also like to put the accent on the staff. It has already been said by someone. It's about low-wage people. In fact, we had a proposal to increase the benefit to temporary unemployment to the level of wages, because now it is 70%. They have low wages. That is, of course, a huge cut in the income of those staff. If it takes a long time, it's gonna be a big problem for a lot of people who work there. With regard to the rent discount, I am pleased that you have already effectively sent a letter to the Minister responsible for SNCB in relation to operations linked to the public institutions. Will you also look at the rent? That is, of course, also a regional competence. Can something be done about the rents for large establishments? After all, this rent is also a big cost for the people. As has already been requested, can you explain more about the insurance business? How will you deal with the sub-contracting sector? I saw on television yesterday that a lot of people have a lot of supplies of food that they can't do now. How can you ensure that this is not lost? In relation to staff, can you guarantee employees that they will actually be entitled to paid holidays? Who's gonna pay for that? For us, it is very important that the jobs of the people in that sector can be preserved. The fixed jobs that are available now should not be lost and should not be replaced by flexi jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have many questions and questions in the light of the debate that has just taken place with great serenity. Some will say that this is a sign of a good maturity of political representatives in this serious hour. I hope that this is not the reflection of a certain resignation. I am surprised, indeed, that five days after announcing such shocking measures that impact such a sector, there is such an overwhelming consensus to welcome the much-needed government initiatives, let us acknowledge. We will then see whether they are sufficient or not. We can doubt that until now, because I know the exercise of this kind when I was a parliamentarian of the majority. I had this duty to support government initiatives, but that did not prevent me from having a critical and constructive look. At this point, I feel that the four major measures put forward by the minister, in relay of government decisions, suggest that we can be satisfied with them in order to support a sector that is hit hard and woody more than it was at the end of the first wave. Last June, a study was carried out by the Graydon office, which already pointed out that the Horeca sector had lost four billion euros in turnover within a few months. The Fédération de l'industrie alimentaire belge (Fevia), the body responsible for the agri-food sector, estimates that since last Friday's new decisions, the complete closure of the Horeca for one month together with the cessation of the event for too long, will cause companies to lose profits of the order of 320 million euros per month, for the only Fevia which does not represent all the beneficiaries of the 500 million euros released by the government. Even though, as the minister recalled, these 500 million euros are supposed to serve and the Horeca and the event and the fairgrounds. Of course these audiences needed it a lot. But they're not the only ones. Minister, other interlocutors sought to meet with you last weekend without having been successful except in the last few hours. This is particularly the case in the tour operators sector. This sector is dying. He's particularly worried. It has not been a question of specific measures to support him for months, with the exception – let us have the honesty to acknowledge him and to greet him – of the initiative taken in her time by Minister Nathalie Muylle, who acted quickly and successfully. In order to bring up this sector for a few more moments before addressing the issue of the horeca and event sectors, I should like to say that we must not forget that this sector, with the orange code and then red code which is now applicable almost everywhere in Europe, has had to retain money injected into the mechanics to guarantee a minimum service for all their customers, to those who have phoned in order to guarantee them a voucher, to postpone them, to cancel a series of stays that had been reserved. This represents a huge administrative burden that it has assumed so far, without compensation. Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the time bomb that these famous vouchers for the tour operators represent for the coming months. As you know, Minister Muylle has allowed tour operators not to have to repay all the reservations that had been made at this time and to be able to grant a voucher until June 19. Let us recognize it, it has helped to preserve their cash flow. But it is forgotten that if this voucher is not used, in particular because the health conditions do not improve and all the countries of Europe remain in red code, these amounts will have to be repaid in June 2021. This will then be the disaster for the whole sector. Hundreds of millions of euros will have to be released at once as the tour operators' cash flow is melting, their own funds are disappearing. For these vouchers to be used, they need to have something to sell, which is not the case today. This was not the case during the summer, nor in September, because, for somewhat surprising reasons that even Europe did not understand, Belgium wanted, more than other countries, to ban travel, on the basis of these famous red and orange codes, in a series of areas in Europe even though the European Commission authorized them. So I can only strongly plead for you to think quickly about the tour operators sector because it is not with the meagre bonus of a few thousand euros that they have received from the Regions that they will be able to keep their heads out of the water. The resolution that still brings us together today was put forward at the time by Ecolo-Groen and had the merit of existing. Minister, you have not lost your afternoon, since of all the groups of the majority, Mr Vanden Burre was the only one to say at least four times that he renewed his confidence. He probably wanted to heal the morning's grief, when he said in the press that the measures put on the table by the government did not go far enough and were not strong enough. On this point, I can join him. I think it is important not to lose sight of the fact that the mechanisms implemented will have to be complementary. The four measures in question are useful measures, but they will not be sufficient. One of the concerns regularly raised by the sector concerns the fact that a high proportion of these measures are aimed more at natural persons than at legal persons. In a few months' time, we should not be confronted with horeca operators who have been able to hold the blow in their personal capacity, but that balance sheet deposit and bankruptcy should be the conclusion for many of them. I also think, minister, that you should take your pilgrim stick and go knock on the door of insurance companies. They have the merit of being relatively hidden in this crisis that our country has been going through for months. I would remind you that the employers of horeca establishments and the managers of companies active in the event sector buy insurance that they sometimes pay at a gold price to enable the activation of guaranteed income in case of a hard blow. On the other hand, they cannot perform this activation because of the famous clause which prevents, in case of force majeure, the assurance to be called to the cause. Is there no way, Minister, to work with the insurance sector to see if there are any actions that can be taken to activate, in whole or in part, these guaranteed income clauses, as long as the self-employed who pay them throughout the year have, more than ever, actually needed them today? That's a lead I'm suggesting. In reviewing your various points, you referred in particular to the bank guarantee law. Probably by distraction, you said that a law had been passed, but there was no law passed in that regard. There was a royal decree of execution which, on 16 September, through Mr. De Croo, then in charge of Finance, came to make some amendments to the original royal decree. Objectively, when reading this royal decree, the changes that facilitate the access of the Horeca sector to State guarantees do not come out of sight. So what are the changes that have been made to this royal decree, and which actually address the problems expressed by the Horeca sector? Eventually, is a new Royal Order, which would amend the one of April 14, 2020, being prepared within your Office? If so, how do you intend to change it? With regard to point 3, you referred to a procedure taken by you to suspend the payment of rents to the public authorities which own horeca surfaces, noting that you had sent a letter to your colleague Gilkinet concerning the SNCB surfaces. That's good. Let's make sure you're heard. But there is still something relatively discriminating to consider relieving rental charges only the tenants of public structures while the others remain faced with extremely important burdens which they can in whole or in part be relieved according to the sole good will of their owner. The cdH had made a proposal during the first wave, in super-kern. You were there once or twice, in your capacity as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Budget at the time. We had made a proposal for a mechanism to be implemented, a special fund, allowing for the temporary, time-limited take-over of up to 50% of the rental costs of economic operators who had been shut down by confinement. This proposal made by the CDH was not accepted. Now that this second wave gives an extra blow to those who already had a knee on the ground after the first wave, should this measure not be reconsidered? I invite you, minister, with your sherpas and specialists, to a mechanism that would be fairer, because it could benefit everyone, and not just those who can claim to have a public owner. With regard to the consultation with energy suppliers, it is well known that energy costs remain fixed costs, which must be borne when the activity is no longer present. You have indicated, unless I am distracted, that you have sent a letter to your colleague Mr Dermagne or to other regional operators, so that contacts can be made. D'accord, and so what? What does this give in concrete terms? In the context of the consultations you have with the other levels of power, can we outline, in the short or medium term, a satisfactory response to these fixed burdens which continue to weigh on the sectors concerned? In point 9, you recalled that the Vivaldi government agreement intended to extend the ONSS reductions on the company's first worker. I invite you to go through the text of the resolution. It asks that the benefit of this measure be extended to the first ten workers of the undertaking. Therefore, just the continuity of what exists today, in itself, is always better than nothing, but it does not objectively meet the ambition set out in this resolution. I must be able to recall this on behalf of the depositaries of the text. Point 15 of the resolution refers to the need for administrative simplification in the Horeca sector. In this country, we are accustomed to a regular principle: at the most we talk about simplification, often at least we do it. Flanders had the merit, in particular for the granting of regional support premiums during the first wave, of introducing a rebuttable principle of trust in order to benefit from the premiums. Basically, you were entitled to the premiums unless it could be demonstrated the other way around at a later date. In the south of the country, we had the opposite approach. You first had to prove that you were entitled to the bonuses to benefit from them, which led to many problematic elements. Minister, you also intend to put your approach with the horeca and event sectors in a trust-based way, to make life easier for them and reduce administrative procedures, and to consider that they will therefore be entitled to aid unless there is evidence to the contrary, otherwise, if you do not implement this trust-based principle, you may increase the elements of fraud. Then you mustn't be naive. Of course, there must be serious control and control behind it. I finally get to the last element to be able to close my speech. You know that the sector expects the minister, who embodies the defence of his interests, to be able to also ensure that he puts oil in the workings with the other levels of power. In the months that have passed, many independent actors have not been able to benefit from the premiums that are granted by the Regions on the grounds that one of the criteria for benefiting from them was the comparison with 2019 turnover. New companies that had started at the beginning of the year, which do not have a balance sheet to be able to highlight 2019, or much worse, companies that ended up in family transmissions were not entitled to these bonuses. I can tell you about a case I've been through. For years, a company was run by parents, and then at the end of 2019, in early 2020, they passed on the business to their children. The company has changed its name, its status. Even if it continues the historical family activity, it is a new business, and therefore it is not entitled to the aid. I urge you not to charge the independents the price of the Belgian institutional lasagna. In your inter-ministerial consultations, also act so that these pitfalls no longer exist and only in the wake of this second crisis, we have really learned the lessons of the first, and that we can really help those who, today, are worried about the payment not only of their wages, but of their staff, for the repayment of mortgages or children's studies. Some fear that they will have to sell their house. I invite you to act hard and urgently. The first step was taken with the 500 million. It will not be enough, and dialogue must continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u64	Those were a lot of concrete, but sometimes also overlapping questions. Can you give specific answers, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u65	Mr President, I will try to provide concrete answers, although many questions have been asked. So I'm going to try to group my answers together. If, of adventure, I had to forget about it, don't hesitate to remind me! I have several questions about the reasons and the basis of the decision. First of all, I would like to point out that it is not the federal government that has taken this decision, but a consultative body that brings together different levels of power in which the regions are also represented. It is therefore not the only federal government, but all the levels of power gathered in the CCO. I do not hide from you that there have indeed been many debates, because this is not an easy decision to make. No one around the table – whether in the Regions or the various parties that make up the federal government – was enthusiastic about taking this step. It is a little death in the soul that has been taken by all the stakeholders. A debate on scientific studies took place. I do not hide from you that many of them have been mentioned. Some reported studies by AVIQ (the Walloon Agency for Quality Life), which had estimated the number of contaminations in restaurants at 3.7%. The Minister of Health, for his part, highlighted scientific studies of the Lancet, which, on the other hand, showed more contamination in the Horeca. Anyway, a decision was finally made - and you know it. All the entities represented around the table have therefore validated this choice, and I do not have to comment more on this aspect of things. Mr. Van Lommel then asked me about the postponements of VAT payments. Companies experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the VOCID crisis may request support from the Finance FPS until December 31st. Before I answer this point, I ask you to be aware of the fact that you have asked me several questions relating to the skills of some colleagues. For example, VAT is not my responsibility, but it is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. So I am trying to provide you with answers, because I am constructive and collegial, but do not beg me if I am not able to provide you with specific details on matters that my colleagues are responsible for! Here, for VAT, that is the case. I can simply tell you that until 31 December, we can ask for support measures. The measures must provide financial space to enable the debtors to overcome their difficulties. These include payment plans, late interest relief plans and the remission of fines for non-payment. It's still possible until the end of the year. The undertakings concerned are natural or legal persons with, of course, an enterprise number. The debts concerned are professional discount, VAT, personal tax, corporate tax and tax of legal persons. You see it's relatively wide, within the target perimeter. Various measures have also been taken since the beginning of the crisis, always with regard to VAT. This is the extension of the deadlines for submitting the declarations. There is also an accelerated refund of VAT for the February 2020 monthly declaration. There was also an automatic carry-over of two months for the payment of VAT and professional prepayment without having to pay fines or interest on late payment. There is therefore a whole range of measures in relation to taxes and VAT, Mr Van Lommel, and others who have also asked for this. Secondly, I come to assurances, which have raised a lot of questions. I confess that it was my predecessor colleague who had met with the insurance sector. I wasn't there. I'm sorry. But I can tell you that during the period of cessation of activities in the first wave, certain premiums were suspended by the insurance companies. But it is equally true that they have resumed since the activities were relaunched. The sector is considering the introduction of VOCID-19 insurance to cover further outbreaks in the future. Of course, the risks that are covered must also be distinguished. It can be understood that it is appropriate to suspend an occupational insurance premium when you are at a standstill, but on the other hand, it raises more questions of suspending a fire cover, even if there is no activity. That's the kind of debate that's taking place. I'm going to the energy suppliers. Cross-cutting measures have been taken at the regional level to support the most disadvantaged. Personally, I plan to contact directly with the energy and electricity suppliers in order to discuss with them the efforts they would be willing to make for the companies that are shutting down or almost shutting down because of the second wave. Mr Vanden Burre, the reduction in ONSS contributions for the first ten workers is a lead that has not been retained. If it is attractive, the budgetary means are what they are. The agreement is intended to exempt the third quarter of 2020 from ONSS contributions. It is a question of the companies that are at a standstill (important precision for other questions). For the moment, we are thinking about the de jure and de facto judgment. I am not a lawyer, but this means that some companies are at a standstill because the closure decision is clear. We've decided to close the restaurants and the cafes, unmistakable. There are other clear decisions regarding the closure of nightclubs and fairs for carnivals. On the other hand, there are other entities that are at the de facto stoppage. This is the case with the sole supplier (Mr Vanden Burre's colleague referred to a WC rental company). This is praised at festivals, for example. I often took the example of a company making wedding dresses. There are obviously no more marriages at the moment. She may be at the de facto stoppage. We didn't forbid them to make wedding dresses, but de facto, they're on the stand. With regard to the right to bridge, I intend to grant the right to bridge doubled all the companies that are at de facto or de jure, in the sectors concerned (Horeca, event, forain). My colleagues, in terms of social contributions and year-end premiums, may have another analysis. I plead for a homogeneous analysis of the three measures (gateway, ONSS contributions and year-end premiums) but I am not responsible for the other two. That's what I'll propose to the government on Friday. It expands the perimeter a little, but, as you said, I think it's just to take into account a whole series of small niches of activities that are stopping because de facto they can't work anymore. As far as SABAM is concerned, it is a matter that falls within the competence of the Minister of Economy. So it's up to him to ask the question. I think we can raise his awareness, but I still draw your attention to the fact that with SABAM, it is not only the State that is benefiting. It's an association that collects money for neighboring and other rights. Be careful, therefore, not to endanger a cultural sector that is already suffering elsewhere! Here I leave it to my colleague Dermagne to study the matter, but I would like to draw your attention to this. Still about insurance, I have a supplementary element to give you. Certain insurance coverages which are intended for enterprises (injury at work, civil liability) adapt themselves to a reduction in activity. Several speakers referred, in particular Mr. Prévot, to the loss of income. There is in some cases some automaticity in adaptation. In this case, you pay a premium allowance at the beginning of the year and a premium adjustment at the end of the year to take into account the actual activity of your business. Insurers will automatically take into account the impact of the crisis in these insurances. It's still an important element. As a company, can the payment of insurance premiums be deferred? For insurances which do not automatically adapt themselves to a reduction in activity and provided that the company has ceased business because of the containment measures, the company may request a six-month deferral of payment which cannot go beyond 31 October 2020 for certain insurances. There is also some flexibility in insurance. Mrs Depraetere and others also asked the question of taking away. As far as I'm concerned, as far as bridge law is concerned, I have foreseen that we can continue to take away without being penalized on bridge law. You can combine the double bridge right and the take away. I'm not saying it's going to be the same for ONSS. Each company will have to study its situation. Mr. Prévot is right, within the scope of the three measures that have been taken, there are measures that are more in favour of the natural person. The bridge law applies to the self-employed, perhaps the small independent more than the manager of a 50- or 200-person company. On the other hand, I disagree with Mr. Maxime Prévot's analysis. There is a need for a good analysis of the cases: some measures are aimed at the self-employed, others to the enterprises, and others are in favour of the workers - since the aim is that the latter also benefit from their end-of-year premium. Mr. Maxime Prévot, it's good to divide into three. That said, everyone will then have to see if they have resorted to these measures. For the sake of the take away, I can easily imagine that a fryer manager has a better interest in doing this and asking for the right bridge. On the other hand, a larger company will think twice before doing so, but it would benefit from the ONSS contribution exemption. This means that the situation will also have to be analysed by companies. A question arises as to the determination of the event sector. I agree that it is very difficult. We took two or three examples to illustrate it. In any case, as far as I am concerned, in the case of bridge law, and in order to answer the question of administrative simplification, I have already met representatives of the caisses. Mr. Maxime Prévot addressed the issue of irrefragability. I have therefore asked them to pay the bridge fee and then to control it. Where appropriate, in the event of abuse or error, it will be their responsibility to recover what they have paid. In this way, payments will be made as quickly as possible. Indeed, we do not want to wait several months for the bridge rights to be honoured. Therefore, in the event, I imagine that applications will be submitted and that the caisses will examine. In this way, they will decide whether a latrine landlord is in good contact with the event sector, so that it has had to close due to a lack of activities for several months. I will reply point by point to Mrs Rohonyi's many questions - I have already answered about objective data. As far as tracing in restaurants is concerned, I have the same information from the sector. I therefore refer you to the Minister of Health. I would point out that tracing is a regional competence. It is not the federal government that can be able to give you these answers. My health colleague may have more elements. The collection of client data by the Horeca is organized by ministerial decree on the prevention measures of the VOCID-19. With regard to the monitoring of data collection by restaurateurs, I was informed by the Celeval opinion, which is based on all public health data in the country. The information at my disposal does not allow me to conclude personally that restaurants and cafes would be significant sources of contamination. However, I told you that the Minister of Health has a different analysis. Alert level 4 is widespread across the country. The fact that in the Horeca, people sit at the table without masks and eventually consume alcohol explains the decision of the Consultation Committee. The presence of alcohol worsens the decision. The mayors must not apply sanctions on the basis of available statistical data. They must enforce the measures provided for in the Ministerial Order establishing emergency measures to limit the spread of VOCID-19 or measures set at the regional level or specific measures taken at the municipal level. This means imposing administrative fines, closing establishments that do not comply with the health constraints imposed by the Minister on the carrying out of their activities. Will the closure of the Horeca be well evaluated in 15 days? Among the decisions of the concertation committee, it is foreseen that the closure would be valid for four weeks and evaluated after two weeks. The Ministerial Order does not specify how this evaluation will take place. This is apparent from my colleague from Public Health as far as its implementation is concerned. Was the closure balanced with the French model? I confirm that, for several days, we have put this closure in balance with other possibilities. It should be noted that the sector was of the opinion that a 9 p.m. closure did not allow for a full evening service and was, so to speak, equivalent to a closure. In fact, it is this kind of message between us that now comes to us frequently from France. It was therefore proposed that the closing time should be set at 10 p.m., but this option was not retained because of the seriousness of the epidemiological situation. Indeed, even the fixing of an hour of closure does not prevent people meeting around a glass or a dish to discuss without wearing a mask. As far as the funding of CPAS is concerned, this is not a matter for me but for my colleague, Karine Lalieux. However, I can tell you that, as part of the support measures, more than EUR 100 million has been granted to CPAS and it has been decided that this amount could continue to be used until the end of 2021. Indeed, some CPAS wondered how to use this substantial amount of money without wasting. But it is up to my colleague, Mrs Lalieux, to bring more details. As I told you earlier, some suppliers that supply, for example, only Horeca will de facto have to close because they have no other activities. They will then be able to benefit from the bridge right. On the other hand, others who provide Horeca, as well as other sectors, will have to choose to close in order to be able to benefit from this right. As far as the other two measures are concerned, I refer to my colleagues. This brings me to the question of the moratorium on bankruptcies. In fact, a moratorium on bankruptcies exists de facto. It is an expression that I use frequently, which I ask you to apologize for, but the ONSS and the taxes do not initiate proceedings in court against companies in difficulty. However, it is known that they are the main creditors and are at the origin of the proceedings launched before the courts, which cause bankruptcy. As is not the case at present, there is a form of moratorium at the state level. But I recognize that this is a matter that falls within the competence of my colleague in Finance. On the other hand, this solution is not permanent. As far as the overall budgetary impact is concerned, we must realise that we have gone on an envelope of 500 million in 2020. Quite rapid estimates have been made. It is estimated that a bridge right to support recovery costs approximately EUR 60 million per month. We obviously left for a month because we're talking about four weeks. We all hope we can reopen the restaurants in four weeks. If one month were to be extended, the amount would be doubled. Let's go for 60 million euros! The double bridge fee is 80 million euros per month. The end-of-year premium, if borne in its entirety, amounts to EUR 170 million. This will probably not be the case because I imagine that the mechanism will be in proportion to temporary unemployment or the same order. My colleague Dermagne will have to put this mechanism in place. The contribution exemptions for T3, which are the responsibility of Minister Vandenbroucke, amount to EUR 160 million. So this is still a 500 million euro envelope that is planned for one month for the Horeca. If there were to be a second month, a little more than EUR 100 million would have to be added very quickly. As far as hotels are concerned, the ministerial decree is clear. The hotels can open and can feed their guests who are staying in the hotel. Here I take an example of my region. A tourist hotel in the Bouillon region that has about fifteen rooms and welcomes fifteen families can give food to these fifteen families. But if he also serves a restaurant, the restaurant door must be closed. No guest in the area can eat in this hotel-restaurant. The distinction is clear: one can only give food to the guests of the hotel. As far as tourist attractions are concerned, the answer is identical to what I said for the event. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many tourist attractions also have a canteen or a kitchen. Of course, one might imagine that some tourist attractions use the closure of their restaurant to benefit from the measures. On the other hand, they may also decide to continue to deliver meals if it is take away. I'm still talking about bridge law. The same goes for laundry. We talked about the bathroom earlier. Attractive parks, there is indeed no measure that has been taken with respect to amusement parks. They are not concerned at the moment. Mrs. Vindevoghel, I understand. I think SNCB is an example that is still... Admittedly, there are not only public owners, there are also private owners, but I think the public should set an example. And here, there's still a lot of commercial activity going on at the stations. I think the state must also set an example. But it is true that there are measures to be taken for leases and rents, but I would remind you that this is a regional matter and therefore it is not possible for me, as far as I am concerned, to act on this matter. A real question is about food. We don't have an answer to that. I've been questioned by several restaurants that say, "I have food in my fridges, in my freezers, what do I do with it?" I'm telling you, I don't have an answer. It's a shame, but I think that – it's just me – I imagine they can give it to charitable associations or that kind of thing. But there is no solution that is organised by the state, in any case, unfortunately. Mr Prévot, however, do not confuse turnover with profits! I hear that...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u66	Patrick Prévot doesn't confuse. It's Maxime!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u67	I'm gonna have to be careful. Mr Maxime Prévot, I hear there are 4 billion, but that is turnover. The State must not compensate for the turnover of enterprises. We agree. We cannot compare the 500 million aid with 4 billion sales that are lost. As far as the tour operators were concerned, I had an answer, because Mrs Dierick had asked me about this. I would like to inform you that I clearly intend to support the tourism sector, which has many SMEs, self-employed people and employees. I met with the SNI, UCM and UNIZO on 19 October. Among other things, we talked about the particular case of travel agencies. I therefore devote particular attention to this sector, which, although not covered by the current closure measures, is in fact very affected by the health crisis. In the short term, I hope that travel agents will benefit from support measures as early as 2020. I have just read that the Walloon Region is taking measures to support travel agencies, which I welcome. In addition, longer-term measures, such as the "hibernation plan" to which I referred, must also be considered. This plan targets all companies and businesses facing a situation that forces them to reduce their costs. They must be helped so that they can remain active once this crisis has passed. The sector is asking for an intervention fund, as you mentioned. This fund could cover costs already incurred by tour operators in booking a trip, as well as costs related to repatriations that have had to be organized and that have not been covered by insurance. As you know, the federal state no longer has powers over economic expansion, i.e. the granting of premiums and subsidies. Therefore, an interdepartmental conference of Ministers of Economy and Employment should soon be convened by Minister Dermagne. I confirm that the minister has taken the initiative to convene this conference in the near future, but I do not know the exact date. We could therefore imagine that this trail would be studied by Minister Dermagne. At the federal level, the sector can benefit from the right to support the recovery to which the agencies are entitled, provided that they experience a 10% decrease in their turnover, which is the case. In addition, tax and social tools to reduce travel agency costs are being analysed. I mentioned the simplification of rents. Mr President, I feel that I have answered the vast majority of the questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u68	A lot of answers have already been given. Can I therefore ask that the replies be kept brief? I propose a two-minute reply time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u69	Mr President, I hope you will understand that the Rules of Procedure on interplays spell something else out. I will try to keep my reply as concise as possible. Minister, I would like to thank you in particular for the serene debate we have had today and also for the completeness of your reply. You have certainly done your best in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, that special times require special measures. However, the road there may differ. With that road, the Flemish interest absolutely does not agree. Many colleagues have just been looking my way and have even claimed that I would have lost the compass. I would make things community. However, that is not the case. Minister Vandenbroucke may perhaps address the people as if they were toddlers, but not me. Colleagues, I have just based myself on the map with the source Sciensano. I didn't make that card, just to be clear, myself. I just referred to it, which is my right as a politician. If you draw a Community conclusion from that, it is up to you. Colleagues, what I have wanted to demonstrate is that measures must be taken where they need to be taken. The whole country cannot be held hostage by measures when the problem is different in certain areas. Colleagues, there is indeed a reference here to the great pressure on hospitals. I recognize them. She's here, too. However, this pressure is demonstrable with figures. What is not detectable is where the infections came from and where the patients in the hospitals got infected. That is the essence of the whole thing here today. We have had a whole exchange of views here on the catering sector. However, on the substance of the case, namely the scientific evidence on which the government has based itself, to make the decision to close the entire hospitality sector for a month, has turned around. Unfortunately, however, the real answer must remain guilty. I see that, above all, no lessons have been learned from the previous government's coronal blunders. One actually sails blind, one works from a subjective gut feeling. I therefore understand the concerns of the catering entrepreneurs who at that time, not unjustly, feel that they are playing with their money and the investments they have made, with what may have been their last savings, to set up and keep their business running. Now they see their dream smashed. At that time, the money of the 135,000 employees who are active in the sector and now fall back on a lower income is also being used. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to approach the dossier in a rational manner, and measures are justified. Therefore, I have no problem with any measures being taken. As I said two weeks ago in plenary, we need figures to base ourselves on this in Parliament. Trade focused and thoughtful. If the measures cannot be supported, then I fully understand that the sector is considering legal action. Who can blame these people if they feel treated like some sort of bulb shop that is being opened today, closed again tomorrow, opened again and closed again? This cannot be called good governance. During the past period, colleagues in the sp.a have very often pointed out the choke contracts in the hospitality sector which need to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. I understand that a legislative proposal has been considered in the meantime. Colleagues, these are measures that the Flemish interest can agree with, and these are measures that we really want to support, because they are measures that are based on concrete problems and concrete figures. Mr President, I have prepared a motion for a recommendation which I will deliver to you shortly. In view of the fact that there are no figures available here and that we cannot say how many infections there are to be traced back to the catering industry, we are asking for that declared lockdown to be lifted. However, if the current government were to decide to maintain that lockdown, we would ask for a number of additional measures to further freeze the liquidity position of the catering sector, which are complementary to the adopted resolution of June 2020, but which are also complementary to the announced support measures, which you have just explained. I am talking about the measures I mentioned earlier on VAT. I am also talking about a measure to which you did not reply, namely further neutralization for the last quarter, which must be achieved between the bonification and the increase in the advance payments of company and personal taxes, fixed costs, and also the so-called'small credit corona', which is a kind of bridging credit, in which the government could play an important role.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u70	I see that a number of Members are no longer present. The next item on my list is Mr Prévot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u71	Mr. Chairman, I have remained out of respect for the minister who gave us a relatively comprehensive statement and who took the trouble of answering our questions. I have no further question in this reply. However, I would like to say to the minister that we will be paying attention to the situation over the next few hours, the next few days and the next few weeks. In any case, I hope that the government's leitmotiv will remain at the side of the sectors in great difficulty. This health situation will obviously have to be taken into account. I still hear some who minimize the effect. The situation is there. And in hospitals both in the North and in the South, men and women are fighting to treat our people. For these people, we must also take the ad hoc measures and certainly not avoid the problem as some are trying to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u72	Minister, thank you for your clarification, even though you are referring the ball to other levels of government or to other ministers, your colleagues. I will do whatever is necessary to obtain the necessary information. I thank you, in particular, for taking the lead in the insurance sector. You tell us that certain premiums had been suspended during confinement, that they have resumed and that, therefore, a reflection is under way with the sector in order to be able to move towards VOCID insurance. This seems quite interesting to me, but the question of the retroactivity of these premiums will have to be asked in particular. It cannot be confined only to the second wave. We also need to think about the first wave, especially since, with the health crisis, we do not know what we are going to do in the coming months. I regret, however, your reply concerning the collateral victims of this closure. You maintain that the exemption from ONSS contributions as well as the bridge right remain measures that are reserved for suppliers who would be completely out of business. These suppliers should choose between the full closure and the bridge right. I think it's a choice we can't impose on them. In fact, suppliers are rarely stopped, but they are seriously impacted. Among them, there are also traders. At the time of the break-up, businesses had been able to resume operations on 11 May 2020 and restaurants on 8 June 2020. During this one-month period, it was found that businesses were in serious difficulty, even though the relationship between these two sectors is not clear. I really hope to see you start a sharp and serious reflection on the support to be given to these businesses, which will suffer indirectly but considerably from the closure of the horeca establishments. With regard to the question of the moratorium, I understand that there is a moratorium on bankruptcies, but I have not heard you mention the moratorium on layoffs. Dismissal is often seen as the ultimate solution to get the head out of the water and precisely to avoid such bankruptcies. I would like once again to support this request, especially since it was made very recently - on 17 October - by the three major Brussels trade union organisations in a joint communiqué. This is a rare enough fact to be emphasized, and it shows how important it is for you to devote attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for the answer you have given us. What I absolutely miss is the lack of objective figures and facts on the basis of which decisions were taken. It was said that an evaluation would take place after 14 days, so next week, but it is still unclear on the basis of which this evaluation will be made. That worries me. It does not therefore seem promising to me that this sector will be able to reopen. You also refer to the Minister of Health. It must be clear that economic interests and health interests are not always complementary. I think it is up to you as Minister of Self-employed and SMEs to stand up for them and stand up for the catering industry. You must base yourself on facts and not on a gut feeling of the Minister of Health. The catering industry and the self-employed are counting on you. Please stand on your lines and stand your ground, I would say. In the slides before, there was an envelope of EUR 500 million and four measures to get through 2020, but when I hear the explanatory statement, it is about EUR 500 million per month and it is not about getting through 2020. So it's about three times 500 million euros? That wasn't entirely clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u74	Mr President, I know that the last word is for parliamentarians, but I would like to intervene in order to avoid any misunderstanding. The year-end premium costs 167 million, once, and if we take over the entire year-end premium. However, the law has not yet been drafted. I can't tell you if we're going to take over 100% of the year-end premium. I think my colleague Dermagne is likely to temper the end-of-year premium with a temporary unemployment measure. Companies that have had a lot of temporary unemployment will have a lot of government support for their premium. You understand the principle. There is no reason why the State should pay the end-of-year premium for those who have worked almost all year. I repeat, it is a maximum of 167 million (recovery of the whole) and once; I think it will be a little less. There is a second measure one shot, it is the exemption from contributions. This is an amount of 160 million. The two measures I have just mentioned therefore amount to 327 million. The other two measures are bridge rights for one month. There are $60 million for the bridge right of support to recovery and $80 million for the bridge right doubled. We've planned four weeks of closure. If you add up all these amounts, you get more or less $500 million. I'm no longer a budget minister, so I can say "more or less"! On the other hand, you are right, if we extend the bridge rights by one month, we must add 60 million and 80 million. And so here, we're going to be about 600 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u75	Mr President, I do not have much to add, except for the attention of Mr Prévot: there is no complacency with regard to the government. The decision was taken by the National Security Council, that is, by the entire country, as represented in a democratic country with elections that took place. There is no complacency. Simply, here we are faced with measures that need to be taken and we encourage the government to take them, to take them as best as possible and as fully as possible. Of course, we have not yet solved everything, but there is already a good part of it. I have just read that the Walloon Region will take additional measures. I assume that Flanders and the Brussels Region will do the same. In such a period, we must all stand together and try to do what we have to do as best we can. With regard to the remarks made by Mr. Van Lommel, I would point out that the maps are scalable. There are new cards every day. Some time ago, Flanders was completely red. When it was the case with Antwerp, we didn't make it a circus! Cards change all the time. The measures are taken by all representatives of the country. They are not pleasant and we have shown ourselves, as parliamentarians, because we were not satisfied that Horeca is being targeted. Now that they're taken, you have to take care of them. We will assume by trying to make as many decisions as possible. So, Minister, I urge you to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u76	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the effort you have made to answer our questions. It goes without saying that today there is no answer to all the details, but I would like to repeat a question with regard to companies or entrepreneurs who are entitled to the right of bridging. You have already said that restaurant owners who offer takeaway will also be eligible for that credit. You made the distinction between companies that are obliged to close down and companies that are de facto shut down. You referred to the landlords of toilets and the salesmen of wedding dresses, whose activities are virtually shut down. That remains my question as to how far they can still carry out certain activities today. To stay with your examples, the entrepreneur who rents toilets for festivals may fall back on a marginal rental, but there will probably still be rentals, for example at construction sites. Here and there they will rent something, but it will be much less. To what extent can they still carry out certain activities and still be eligible for the appropriations provided for? I would also like to thank you once again for your answers and to support you in the further development of support for the catering sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u77	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the many clarifications. I think the government is very much aware of the difficulty of the dossier, both in terms of health and in terms of the economy. It is also clear from the measures that are being taken that the hospitality sector has been hit very hard. However, I think it is very important that we do not choose between stopping or partially continuing work. As an entrepreneur I have always gone for it and kept my company open, even though I had only a small turnover. An entrepreneur is more motivated to generate revenue than to close his business. So I really think everything needs to be put on top of everything. Aid should not become an incentive to shut down a business, which would be a really wrong signal. We look forward to the 14-day evaluation, with figures, so that we can further study the balance between health and the economy. The pandemic has a big impact. It's hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I must leave this sitting in a moment. Mrs Verhelst will replace me as chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We will continue to criticise the fact that the government is not sufficiently committed to tracing and testing, which is at the heart of the whole problem. The government must actually ensure that it knows where the infections are, so that very effective measures can be taken. We continue to think that is a very important point. At the same time, we know and are afraid that this will cause many bankruptcies, which will cause people to lose their jobs. It's about 135,000 employees, on top of it. We therefore need serious investment and funding for this sector, which is quite clear. I have not had an answer to my question on temporary unemployment. We have tabled a proposal to introduce temporary unemployment with wage retention. That is what we will continue to call for, as it is often about workers with very low incomes. If they have only 70% of their usual income in their unemployment, that is very little for those people. In order to ensure the payment of all this, we propose in a second legislative proposal the introduction of a millionaire tax, which can be used to save that sector. If there is enough money, people can keep their jobs, because then the sector can continue to exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u80	My homonym began by saying that he had stayed to the end out of respect for the minister. Of course, this is also my case, but above all out of respect for the sector concerned and which is extremely fragile today. I therefore appeared to be required to remain to the end for this exchange of views. I will respond in five points, Minister, by thanking you for trying to review as many questions as you have been asked. You have not been able or willing to answer all of them, but I do not object to them, since there were many of them and we will certainly have the opportunity to return to them. First, if I understand correctly, when a "horecaist" closes, but keeps a service to take away - a take away - he can claim the benefit of the double bridge right. On the other hand, if a supplier finds himself embarrassed by these closures, knowing a reduction in his de facto activities - as you pointed out - it will not be possible for him to automatically benefit from the bridge right if, because of bad luck, he still carried on a related activity. In short, if all of his activities are not nullified because of the closure decision for a month, he must choose between maintaining his activity for the remaining sectors with which he can work or lowering the component in order to be able to deserve your support. Is that right, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u81	Madam President, I will reply to Mrs Rohonyi, Mr. Van den Bergh and Mr Prévot, since their questions are similar. First of all, the text has not yet been drafted. We only started the intercabinets and we hope for a decision on Friday. It is therefore appropriate to hear what I am saying here with the usual precautions, since the government's decision has not yet been taken. I therefore ask you to consider that my remarks only reflect my intention, not a final text. Mrs Rohonyi, speaking of those whom you call collateral victims, you agree with what Mr Prévot has just said. If they do not work in the horeca, event and fora sectors and have a turnover reduction of more than 10%, they can benefit from the traditional bridge right, which is extended until the end of the year. These companies are not abandoned, they can benefit from the "classical" bridge right, which is extended until the end of the year. In my view, in order to benefit from the double bridge right, it is necessary to combine an activity in the three sectors in question and to interrupt its activity for at least four weeks, except in the case of establishments offering take-out dishes, which they can do as a complement. To take the example of the store selling wedding dresses, it is an activity that is part of the event and, therefore, in all three sectors. The store is no longer active and is therefore at a standstill. Theoretically, since he cumulates the conditions, he can therefore benefit from the bridge right for at least the four weeks in question. That is my intention, and I hope that it will be approved in the texts that will be voted on in the government on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u82	We'll judge on pieces. Since you are announcing your intention here, we will see what will emerge from the intercabinet meetings. I can only argue that we should not further weaken the sector by imposing excessive closures in order to be able to benefit from certain aids. The second aspect concerns banks. I think it would be helpful if you could get back in touch with them. Mr. De Croo, then Minister of Finance, had indeed defined a framework for government intervention and support, in order to be sure that the banks would not rebut their lending. In view of the echoes on the ground that come to us, there are many signs that the banks, even though the situation is now more critical than in the spring, are more reserved to grant loans than they were in the first wave, when the need is more pressing today! Nor should we lose sight of the need to have a modus operandi with the banks when the independents will no longer be able to repay their drafts in the short or even the medium term, notwithstanding the agreements which could have been temporally marked with the De Croo agreement. It would therefore be preferable to update this agreement in the light of the second wave. Thirdly, you raised the issue of food, recognizing that you did not know what to do with it. You suggested that they could be given to food aid services. It is, of course, a generous idea. Let us not lose sight of the fact that most food aid operators are in the voluntary sector and are run by often elderly volunteers, who themselves are at risk from the public. A very large number of these associations if not almost all have closed! It is now the local public authorities, especially CPAS, that are replacing them by offering meals especially to the most vulnerable or disadvantaged. I therefore draw your attention, knowing your sincere local and communal fiber, so that we do not forget the local authorities in these aids to grant them while they replace other failings. Fourth element. I told you about the tour operators. Like the sector, I am concerned that opinions about non-travel or red areas throughout Europe are continuing and that there are few opportunities for them to be able to sell products that citizens would have the opportunity to buy through their vouchers. June, it's very close. If there is no solution, more than 300 million will have to be disbursed. For the citizen, the traveller, my faith, the consumer rights will allow these funds to be guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund, but what about the tour operators? I really invite you to meet this sector quickly, and regularly, to consider a State guarantee mechanism like France could outline its contours so that there is a real intervention and safeguard fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u83	I'll see them on Friday. It's programmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u84	Good! Fifth element. You did not reply about the opportunity of a rent fund to be created in order not to discriminate against economic actors who are themselves forced, because their owners are either unsensitive or because they are not able to afford the luxury of exempting their tenants from what is due. I invite you to have a broader reflection than the station spaces alone to intervene in the fixed charges of rents. The sector is currently very fragile. Friday's decision is a real warning or, I should say, a halt to their activity without a warning. You explained the reasons why the consultation committee took this decision. I think, as Mrs Rohonyi has said, that perhaps we could have gone in phases, first by imposing an early curfew on the French to give an alarm signal to this sector. And if we were to find that it wasn't enough, then move on to the measure that was decided: a total stop. But there, the measure fell abruptly, without targeting other sectors, which gave the impression that they were stigmatized. The call for accountability that you have addressed to them has been seen above all as a severe punishment, for a whole series of students who, in addition to the vast majority, had made efforts and investments to comply with the protocols. We won't be able to change what was done a few days ago. We are not going to cry over the overturned milk, but I think that in future, if the government still has to take sectoral measures, it would be good if they were taken either in a more comprehensive approach, not to stigmatize, or to have the courage to carry iron where the problems are even more acute. Let us not look at this: we know that this is also the case in schools. It is clear that closing schools is very problematic for young people's learning pathways. It's also so that working parents can do their job. However, it is also not necessary for others to pay the costs of certain sectors in respect of which action may be less easily taken. Let us therefore have an approach that is not only concerted, but also more comprehensive, not to stigmatize those who already had a knee on the ground and who today have two.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u85	Maybe a few more answers, but just to complete my information. In the case of foodstuffs, my colleague Sybille de Coster had, a few years ago, passed a law exempting the payment of VAT for the donation of foodstuffs to charities. I think the CPAS are in there. That's to be checked. The rent fund to be set up is a matter that must be asked of my colleague from Finance, in partnership with the Regions, because it is clearly a regional matter. As far as the banks are concerned, I confirm that I have heard the same echoes as you. In this respect, I think that, too, my colleague Mr. Maybe Van Peteghem should evaluate. I don't have any advice to give him, but I can suggest he take back language with the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u86	Mr Minister, I did not refer to it earlier in my reply, but I will do so now because I notice that you have been hammered on many times by you but also by Minister Dermagne earlier. A ping-pong game is played about the powers. That or that minister is responsible for a particular matter and the Member of Parliament must then question that particular minister. I assume that when we have an exchange of views here today on the catering sector, the government is one and indivisible and that the package of measures, with everything that goes with it, will have been discussed within the government. It cannot be the intention that, when we have a fundamental debate here today on the catering sector and on all the problems involved, a Member of Parliament should once again submit separate questions to committees. If necessary, debates on debates will follow, which will not bring the solution any closer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u87	Thank you for your comment. You are right to point out that this is often related. Nevertheless, there may be different powers. However, your comment will certainly be taken into account by the minister present in this House in order to look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u88	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs and Agriculture, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the resolution establishing an emergency plan for the catering sector in the context of the coronavirus crisis (55K1252) adopted on 11 June. was adopted unanimously at the plenary session; - having regard to the decision of the National Security Council of Friday 16 October. with regard to an overall closure of the catering industry for one month following a re-flammation of the coronavirus; - having regard to the consultations between the Minister and representatives of the Catering Federations, indicating a strong subversion of the sector; - whereas the Minister is unable to provide sufficient scientific evidence on which the compulsory closure began on 19 October. can reasonably be based and can therefore be considered discriminatory; - whereas there are significant differences in the reported COVID figures in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, respectively, which do not justify an overall national measure; - having regard to the economic damage suffered by the sector as a result of the first lockdown declared in March, the damage of which is sufficiently demonstrable; - having regard to the collateral damage caused by sub-contractors in the sector, - considering the unmistakable role played by the catering industry in social life; - having regard to the precarious liquidity position of the sector in general and the further negative impact of the second lockdown on this, - having regard to the fragmented division of competence in economic relance and ensuring sufficient survival, at least a consolidation of the sector according to the situation before March of this year; asks the government - the resolution adopted to establish an emergency plan for the catering sector in the context of the coronavirus crisis (55K1252) by loyally implementing the Chamber of Representatives; - to lift the declared lockdown immediately; - in the case of the maintenance of the closure during the period adopted and established by the National Security Council, take the following measures to freeze the liquidity position of the catering sector and which are complementary to the adopted resolution and the aid measures already announced: - not to levy the fines in force for late payment of VAT for the third quarter of 2020, but not to tolerate a late declaration; - defer payment of VAT for the fourth quarter of 2020 for 9 months; - defer payment of VAT for the first quarter of 2021 for a period of 6 months, - further neutralise the bonification and the opposite increase for the fourth quarter of 2020 on the advance payments of company and personal income tax, which does not result in an increase in tax year 2021; - seek, in consultation with the sub-governments, as far as possible, an allowance in fixed charges at a rate of 80% of fixed costs and loss of turnover compared to the same period in 2019; - establish a Small Credit Corona (KKC), which aims to support the many small entrepreneurs who have more difficult access to financial support. The federal government guarantees 95%, amounting to EUR 1 billion of bridging credits for small businesses with a relatively small financing requirement of between EUR 10,000 and EUR 50,000, which was sufficiently profitable for the corona crisis." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister of Middle Classes, Independents, SMEs and Agriculture, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the resolution to put in place a contingency plan for the horeca sector in the context of the coronavirus crisis (55K1252), which was unanimously adopted in plenary session on 11 June; - having regard to the decision taken by the National Security Council on Friday, 16 October, concerning a general closure of the Horeca for one month following a resurgence of the Coronavirus epidemic; - having regard to the consultations held between the Minister and the representatives of the horeca federations, in which the latter expressed their deep concern; - Whereas the Minister cannot present sufficient scientific evidence on which the mandatory closure which entered into force on 19 October last can reasonably be based and which can therefore be described as discriminatory; - Whereas there are significant differences in the reports on the figures for VOCID-19 in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, which implies that a general national measure is not justified; - in view of the economic damage suffered by the sector as a result of the first confinement which was decreed in March and whose damage is sufficiently clear; - in view of the collateral damage caused to suppliers in the sector; - considering the indisputable role played by the Horeca in social life; - in view of the precarious liquidity of the sector in general and the negative effects which the second confinement will again have in this respect; - given the fragmentation of competences in the field of economic recovery and the guarantee of sufficient chances of survival to ensure at least a consolidation of the sector towards the situation before March this year; asks the government - loyally implement the resolution to put in place a contingency plan for the horeca in the context of the coronavirus crisis (55K1252) adopted by the House of Representatives; - to lift with immediate effect the confinement decreed; - in the event of the closure being maintained by the National Security Council during the period set and approved, to take the necessary measures to maintain the liquidity level of the Horeca sector, in addition to the resolution adopted and the support measures already announced: - not to levy the fines in force for late payment of VAT for the third quarter of 2020 but not to accept late reporting; - to grant a carry-over of VAT payment for the fourth quarter of 2020 for 9 months; - to grant a deferment of payment of VAT for the first quarter of 2021 for 6 months; - to implement a further neutralisation of the bonus and compensatory increases for the fourth quarter of 2020 in respect of the advance payment of corporation and natural person tax allowing no increase to be applied during the 2021 tax year; - attempt, in consultation with the governments of the federated entities, to achieve the greatest possible intervention in fixed charges at 80% of fixed costs and loss of turnover compared to the same period in 2019; - introducing a "small credit corona" to support the many small entrepreneurs who have more difficult access to financial support. In this context, the federal state will guarantee 95 %, up to EUR 1 billion of bridge fees for small businesses with relatively low financing needs (between EUR 10 000 and EUR 50 000) that made sufficient profits before the coronavirus crisis." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mrs Kathleen Verhelst. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf and Ms. Kathleen Verhelst. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u89	Madam President, Minister, it is not on purpose that there are four interviews on the agenda today, but that is the case today because of a combination of circumstances. I certainly have no intention of making that a habit. Over the past few months, the construction sector has indicated that a fairly small order book is available in the coming months. They are concerned about how to get through the year and they are also concerned about the prospects for next year. They're pulling the alarm bell. That is why I have submitted this interplay. Nor should we forget that the construction sector is an important barometer of the general state of the economy in a country. When construction is bad, it usually goes badly in other sectors as well. The construction sector therefore sees the order book dwindling further. They don't see the future brightly. I understand that a number of construction companies have been able to do much less work during the lockdown and that yards have been postponed. This was somewhat overtaken afterwards, but the future is still somewhat gloomy in the coming months. Moreover, many bankruptcies are expected in the sector. Economy is not an easy competence. Due to the various state reforms, this competence is rather fragmented. The regions are taking a number of important and necessary measures, but there are still a number of levers in the hands of the federal government to guide sectors such as the construction sector through the crisis. Minister, what measures will you take in the bosom of the government? I assume that the government is one and indivisible to guide the construction sector through the crisis? What have you done or done to avert an influx of bankruptcies in the sector? What measures are already in place? What synergy has there been between yourself as Minister of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed and SMEs, on the one hand, and the Minister of Finance, on the other hand, in this context? What action has been taken to encourage investment which has a strong impact on the sector? Has there been any consultation between yourself or between the cabinets and the sector? What was the result of that? I had added a few additional things to that. We also had a financial crisis in 2008. This led to an economic crisis later on. At that time, the government decided to make a temporary reduction in the VAT rate for new buildings, on the first disc of EUR 60,000. Is that something you could take with you or consider with regard to the relance in the construction sector? In addition, there is a section of the government agreement which refers to the approach to social dumping. When are you going to take the necessary measures in view of the fact that this social dumping and the competition associated with it need to be tackled? This means an adaptation of the Posting of Workers Directive and therefore a payment of the social contribution should be compulsory in Belgium. Part of the implementation of your government agreement mentions the announced reduction in the VAT rate to 6% for demolition and reconstruction. When are you planning on doing that? When can this be effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u90	Madam President, Mr Van Lommel, as regards your first question, on the government's measures to prevent bankruptcy, since the beginning of the crisis in March 2020, both the previous and current governments have taken numerous measures to provide emergency aid to companies affected by the crisis. These measures have enabled companies to place their workers in temporary unemployment in order to maintain jobs. They have enabled self-employed workers to apply for a bridging right to compensate for the cessation of their activity and the loss of turnover. A moratorium on bankruptcies was also introduced during the lockdown. Arrangements have been made for the spread, postponement or waiver of the payment of social contributions, pre-taxes and social and tax taxes for companies that were asked to do so. The government has suspended the payment of the VAT advance of December 2020 and has offered the possibility to reduce working hours for companies undergoing restructuring or difficulties. The construction sector, like other sectors, has benefited from these different measures. I am also thinking of other measures, such as the flexibility granted in the implementation of public procurement. For the measures designed to reduce the cash flow of companies and enable them to become liquid again, please refer to the so-called Bazooka I and II measures. These relate to the transfer of professional loans and state guarantees to the banks of the country for the benefit of our companies. As far as your second question is concerned, the latest report by the National Bank shows that the construction sector is improving. Employment forecasts in the sector are improving. While in March 2020 the decrease in turnover in construction was on average 47% compared to the previous year, it is now less than 10%. The announced guarantee plan is currently under negotiation. Nevertheless, I can already tell you that the construction sector will also be part of it. Indeed, the government agreement provides that the reduced VAT rate of 6%, applicable to the demolition and reconstruction of buildings, is to be extended to the whole of Belgium under the social housing policy. This is an incentive measure for the sector. I will also work in the coming months to make public procurement more accessible to our SMEs and to simplify the award procedure. The Vivaldi government aims at a gross public investment of 4% by 2030, compared to 2.6 % in 2019. These investments will undoubtedly partly benefit the construction sector. Then I come to your third question. I am going to work with the Minister of Finance in the context of the Catering Plan, which is currently being developed, and the hibernation measures that I am preparing for certain sectors. In addition, I sent a letter to the Minister of Finance requesting that, exceptionally, the deduction of the VAPZ by 2020 be granted to self-employed persons who were at risk of not being able to deduct this premium because of the delay in paying their social contributions. Cooperation with the Minister of Finance, as with other members of the government, will be necessary for many matters. Then I come to your fourth question. The previous federal government took measures to enable companies to increase their capital through a coronatax shelter for SMEs. The investment deduction was increased to 25% for new assets directly related to the economic activity acquired or created between 12 March and 31 December 2020. On this point, I would also like to remind you that the government agreement provides for the promotion of private investment. In order to stimulate active investment, the government will extend the increased investment deduction by 2 years. Afterwards, the investment criteria will be evaluated. For the other measures, I would also refer you to the measures set out in the answer to your first question. Then I come to your last question. The construction sector has been consulted in the context of the preparations for the Relance Plan by the previous government and will continue to be consulted. Since my arrival, I have met several sectors affected by the crisis. The construction sector is not forgotten. It's on the list of professional federations I'll be meeting in the next few days. Mr Van Lommel, you have also asked three new questions. They are very interesting and important, but they must be addressed to the Minister of Finance. I am not in a position to answer these last three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have started to mention the classic general measures such as the right of bridging and the VAT advance that normally has to be paid by 24 December, but which can go fully with the balance of 20 January next year. You also refer to Bazooka I and II. It is a specific sector that I mentioned here today. We must do everything we can to boost this sector and ensure that there is sufficient work, especially now, so that workers can remain at work. Let us be clear: there is capital. If we look at the growth of deposits and the like, there is a great deal to be done if we offer the necessary incentives, such as the additional questions I have asked and for which you refer to the Minister of Finance. In my view, these are matters that we should dare to consider and which we can develop specifically for the sector, in order to ensure that it does not fall silent. I am absolutely not in favour of inventing an amalgamation of measures and barnyards for each sector, but we can help certain sectors with measures like this in a very targeted way. I understand that you refer to a number of classic general measures taken by the previous government. I actually wanted to go further for this particular sector. The increased investment deduction of 25% to which you refer, which I interviewed under the previous government Minister of Finance De Croo. I had also put a motion to that effect to re-introduce the increased investment deduction. At that time, as is the case here, a simple motion was tabled to the order of the day. I am glad that a few weeks later the government followed my proposal and that it introduced the increased investment deduction. I understand that it is difficult, while the pandemic is still raging today and there is a great deal of uncertainty, to link re-launch measures to measures that are now mainly based on the survival of businesses and sectors. Nevertheless, I will table a motion of recommendation on the whole government. In doing so, I urge Parliament and the government, from the federal powers and with the available levers, to encourage investments that have a positive impact on the construction sector. You have just referred to the fact that in the coming months you will see how public procurement can be made more accessible. I think that is absolutely right, as is your consultation with the sector over the next few days. I will certainly be in time to ask you what the outcome of this consultation has been. I would also like to include three measures in my motion for a resolution. We should certainly follow the example of 2008 again. At that time, we saw that the reduction in VAT was a very useful measure, which helped the sector. Moreover, the sector is asking for this and will probably raise it in the next few days during the consultations. In addition to reducing VAT from 21% to 6% for a first disc in new construction, I also call for compliance with the Posting of Workers Directive, which should ensure that competition does not break down and that companies do not lose contracts to foreign companies that come to work here much cheaper. Finally, we must not wait for a system of destruction and reconstruction, on which you have not put any concrete timing. You'll have to deal with that immediately. The government wants to take that measure anyway. The measure is also requested by the sector. Please don't let that happen for months. Let's put it into effect as soon as possible. It must, together with other measures, give sufficient oxygen to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u92	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs and Agriculture, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the economic impact of the corona pandemic and which also have a strong impact on the construction sector; - having regard to the important signals from the sector, - having regard to the Vivaldi rule agreement, - whereas the construction sector is an important barometer for the overall state of the economy in our country; - considering that there are a lot of bankruptcies expected in the sector; - whereas the Federal Government has a number of levers in addition to those in the regions to take measures to give the sector the necessary oxygen; asks the government; - to stimulate investment which has a positive impact on the construction sector from the federal powers; - to achieve a temporary reduction in the VAT rate from 21% to 6% on the first disc of EUR 60,000 for private construction in line with the 2008 crisis; - to tackle the competition caused by social dumping without delay by reviewing the Posting of Workers Directive and making the payment of social contributions compulsory in Belgium; - to implement the announced reduction in the VAT rate to 6% for demolition and reconstruction." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Minister of Middle Classes, Independents, SMEs and Agriculture, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the economic consequences resulting from the coronavirus pandemic and which also have a significant impact on the construction sector; - in view of the important signals emanating from the sector; - having regard to the Vivaldi Government Agreement; - Whereas the construction sector constitutes an important barometer of the general economic situation in our country; - Whereas very many bankruptcies are expected in the sector; - Whereas the Federal Government has a number of levers, in addition to those of the regions, to take measures to give a breath of oxygen to this sector; asks the government - to stimulate, on the basis of federal competence, investments which have a positive influence on the construction sector; - to temporarily reduce the VAT rate from 21% to 6% on the first tranche of EUR 60 000 for new buildings built for private purposes, as was the measure taken during the 2008 crisis; - to tackle without delay the fierce competition caused by social dumping, by revising the Posting of Workers Directive and introducing the obligation to pay social security contributions in Belgium; - to introduce now the announced reduction of the VAT rate to 6% for demolition and reconstruction work." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mrs Kathleen Verhelst. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf and Ms. Kathleen Verhelst. I myself am active in the construction sector and I support the government. I am convinced that the recommendations of the coalition agreement will be taken into account. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. There is still a question No. 55009448C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, but she is not present. Debates of the European Parliament 55009733C by Mrs Leen Dierick is postponed. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Question No 5, by Mrs Anneleen Van Bossuyt 55009987C from Mrs. Leen Dierick, but they're not here. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Laaouej converted 55010007C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u93	Mr President, I will put my question in Dutch, but you can answer it in French. Normally Mr D'Amico was here, the questions were also put in French. I myself come from a family of farmers, which is why I am concerned about the sector and the people who work in agriculture. This week's review of the common agricultural policy, the CAP, will take place in the European Parliament. It is, of course, a source of great concern and concern for farmers and environmental associations who fear that our model of family farming and local farms will disappear in favour of intensive farming and agribusiness. Since 1980, 70% of farms in Belgium have disappeared and the area per holding has tripled. The associations that are committed to sustainable agriculture warn us of this phenomenon. If we continue at the current rate with about 43 farms disappearing every week, our agriculture will be dominated by a handful of large industrial companies in just 15 years' time. The political authority must therefore make an urgent effort to preserve our small farms that stand as well as possible. This mobilisation of the political powers must take place, in particular, at the level of subsidies granted to farmers. Too many subsidies end up in the pockets of big landowners or multinationals, while the real farmers are drowning in debt. For example, the subsidies granted by the common agricultural policy often reach small farms to a limited extent. So far, 80% of these subsidies have gone to 20% of agricultural holdings, particularly the large ones. That's not really sustainable. Minister, how do you see the reform of the CAP? What role has Belgium played in the negotiations around this? What will you do as Minister with responsibility for the self-employed, SMEs and agriculture to support small farms and local farmers? What could you do to stop the current trend in land concentrations? What can you do to ensure that European subsidies no longer end up in the accounts of some large industrial companies? The government agreement states that the government will examine the possibility of adopting a law on the protection of farm prices. Can you give us the main line of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u94	Mrs Vindevoghel, I was in Luxembourg last night for the Council's decision on the CAP. It is a very badly prepared answer to your question because it was difficult to go faster. I attach particular importance to the equitable distribution of aid among farmers and, at the Council of European Ministers last night at 4:30 p.m., I called for various measures to support farmers, such as redistributive payment. This aid makes it possible to value high value-added or job-creating production on farms of less than average size. At the European Council, Belgium intervened on this subject and obtained the possibility to apply the maximum number of hectares at the level of members of legal entities and groups of natural persons. So here's the answer to your first question. In answer to your second question, I think it is important that farmers can change their business model to adopt more sustainable forms of agriculture. In Luxembourg, Belgium called for sufficient attention to be paid to young farmers to preserve our agriculture and horticulture in the long term. I also pleaded this night for efficient tools to support companies that want to change or diversify their operations. Recent events related to VOCID have demonstrated the absolute need for the deepening of market support mechanisms. The exceptional voluntary and temporary reductions in production have given a signal to the market and proved their effectiveness. It is therefore essential to extend and update the market support mechanisms. I would also like to remind you that many sectors of our agriculture produce surpluses. My role will be to relaunch several export markets to EU Member States and third countries. As far as your third question is concerned, the redistributive payment already mentioned in answer to your first question seems to me to be an effective tool to combat land concentration. Let me turn to your fourth question. The post-2020 CAP sets out the outline of a comprehensive framework that provides tools for individual Member States to meet the needs of their farmers. It is the strategic plans that will be decisive in the future for the granting of subsidies. In Belgium, their implementation was entrusted to the Walloon and Flemish Regions. I therefore invite you to raise their awareness of the issue of European subsidies. With regard to your fifth question on the Agricultural Price Protection Act contained in the Government Agreement, I can already tell you that this legislation will be a means for the federal government to ensure a fair income for our farmers, based on the Price Observatory. The details of this bill will need to be clarified in the coming weeks. Here are my answers at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-21-55-commissie-ic285x.u95	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I really hope that we will ensure that farmers can continue to do the job they like, especially with the current drought. Sustainability and diversity are very important.
