ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u1	Mr President, I should like to apologize for my delay, which is due to the recent events, including the move. I'm doing my best to do my duty today. Everything happens at the same time, but I'm here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u2	Minister, it is an honour and pleasure to chair the perhaps very last committee meeting with you as Minister here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u3	Mr President, are you French speaking?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u4	I'm French.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u5	Mr President, Didier Reynders taught me that there was a difference between last and last. You said "allerlaatst," that means ultimate. I prefer "last" because I will join you and settle on the same benches of the committee. I'm going back to being a member of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u6	You used to be my corporate law professor, now you're my French professor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u7	Mr Vermeersch is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I am glad that you have come. It is a pleasure to be one of the last questioners to you. I am sure that you will also give a pertinent answer, as you replied to the President and as always. My question already has some old age and concerns the European recovery plan, Next Generation EU, the recovery and resilience plan, which is important for the new federal government, when it takes an oath tomorrow, but also for the Flemish government, in the context of various investments in response to resilience. I just wanted to ask you an informative question. How have you, together with your fellow ministers, prepared to present an action plan to the EU, so that Belgium can quickly obtain funds from this European recovery plan? It is a question of resources which both the Flemish Government, and undoubtedly the Walloon and Brussels governments, and the German-speaking Community government, and the federal government, need in order to implement the investment plans properly. You also know the main pillars that are reflected in all government agreements, especially the last: public investment in climate, energy transition, mobility, sustainable transport, digital networks, research and development. These are potential investment areas, which interest us all, both at federal and Flemish level. So, Minister, it's just an informative question. How have you dealt with the preparation so far, so that we can quickly submit a plan to the European Union, including with regard to the social pillar? We can do that this autumn. We should not wait until spring 2021 to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u9	Mr. Chair, first of all, I would like to point out that Prime Minister Wilmès and Deputy Prime Minister Clarinval have already answered similar questions. I hope they responded in a similar way. The political agreement between European leaders maintains the total volume of EUR 750 billion initially proposed by the Commission. However, the ratio between grants and guarantees on the one hand and loans on the other has been changed under the pressure of net contributors, so that EUR 390 billion is allocated in the form of grants and EUR 360 billion in the form of loans to Member States. This large amount will be taken from the financial markets against the guarantee of the European Union's multiannual budget. Belgium has always supported the principle of a mix of loans and grants. At present, it is important to strike a good balance between responsibility and solidarity. It should also be borne in mind that the funds will only be granted under conditions. The most important thing is that a national recovery plan to be drawn up as part of the European Semester can be negotiated with the European Commission. As far as new own resources are concerned, our country has often stated that we are in favour of them conceptually. For new own resources, we must be able to evaluate every proposal from the European Commission on its own merits. For the common debt, a distinction should be made between the concept of euro or coronabonds and the Next Generation proposal. Eurobonds are about financing purely national debt and policy areas through the Commission. The plan now before us is something else, namely debt-taking under common guarantees, to finance EU policies through the multi-annual budget. Our country supports that approach. As far as regional distribution is concerned, I assume that you mean the Belgian regions. Since Next-Generation funds will be spent through EU multi-annual budget programmes, these funds will be distributed through the applicable parameters for the EU budget, in particular on cohesion policy, research programmes and the second pillar of agricultural policy. On the other hand, the use of European taxation funding for recovery and resilience still needs to be discussed internally in Belgium. Belgian positions are as always coordinated within the DGE, in which the Regions are also at the table. With regard to the return for Belgium, it is not possible today to give you an exact figure since part of the return will be calculated on the basis of the economic data for the year 2021. In addition, the final amount is conditional on the proper implementation of our national recovery plan, the resilience and the proper implementation of the necessary reforms and investments, particularly with regard to the European Semester. With regard to taking Brexit into account, Belgium has achieved – after an intensive awareness-raising effort, together with Ireland – the creation of a €5 billion Brexit adjustment reserve for the Member States and the sectors most affected by the effects of Brexit. A Commission legislative proposal is expected in this regard by November 2020. I also confirm that the Green Pact for Europe remains an essential milestone in the relaunch of the European Union and will be a crucial reference point for the implementation of the programmes covered by Next Generation EU. As with the Multiannual Financial Framework, the Recovery Plan will have to allocate 30% of the funding for measures that help support the green transition and the fight against climate change. Finally, with regard to respect for the rule of law, which is a priority for Belgium, the Council's political agreement states that the programmes covered by the recovery plan will be subject, in the same way as the financial instruments of the multiannual financial framework, to respect for the rule of law. The precise details of the latter's mechanism, however, remain a sensitive point between the Member States and are still the subject of intense negotiations between them. Finally, Mr Bertels, as you rightly point out, our country will have to draw up a recovery plan in order to obtain resources from the Next Generation Agreement. The Commission indicates that Member States will have to do so within the framework of the European Semester. Our country has already organised some DGE coordinations on this European Recovery Fund. The preparation of the national plan will be a task for the new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u10	Mr President, as expected, your answer was entirely in line with what Mrs Wilmès said in the Committee on European Affairs. The government is therefore on the same page in this respect, as expected. As you yourself point out, the Next Generation Agreement is effectively important for the relance policy of the various governments in our country and the different Member States in Europe. There are some good things in this, which you are right to mention, for example the green transition and the digital transition, and the financing through a mix of loans and grants where solidarity can play at European level. I hope that we will take the necessary steps in intra-Belgian to ensure that own resources can be collected from 2021 onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u11	You are also right to point out that it is very important for Flanders that we will probably be able to obtain additional funds from the Brexit Fund. Let us hope that we will soon be able to submit a good recovery plan within the framework of the European Semester. We will all work on this together in Parliament, Minister, together with the forthcoming government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u12	Minister, according to the information available, negotiations with the United Kingdom on the country's future relationship with the European Union would be difficult. I had tabled my question on 29 May, after sending a letter from the United Kingdom to the European Commission on 19 May to inform it of its frustration with reading documents on its approach to the negotiations, on the grounds that European positions were not consistent with those adopted for other treaties with third countries. Since then, a lot of water has sank under the bridges of the Thames. Boris Johnson seems to have forced the negotiators' hand by tabling a bill in the British Parliament concerning the internal market, which contradicts the withdrawal agreement as it was being negotiated with the European Union. Moreover, this has rightly provoked the ire of the Commission and of Mr Barnier, the negotiator for the Union. This position was also shared by our government, in support of the Commission's approach. The aim is not to reserve an exceptional regime in the United Kingdom, but rather to consider it a third State, although it is obviously a major European partner. However, market access must be conditional on compliance with the rules on the free movement of persons. Moreover, this is the case with our partnership with the European Free Trade Association (EFTA). So here we are in the umpteenth round of negotiations on Brexit. The time is beginning to tighten to reach agreement on the modalities of the future relationship. Minister, in this context, I would like to ask you the following questions. Could you briefly provide us with an update on these negotiations? What are the obstacles, given the bill introduced by Boris Johnson, which was third reading in the House of Commons and which should reach the House of Lords? How did the Commission react? What position will Belgium adopt at the European Council tomorrow and Friday? Could you also clarify the areas of vital importance to Belgium in these negotiations? Given that the deadline of 31 December 2020 is fast approaching and in view of the latest British positions, do you think it is necessary to prepare for a no deal? In practical terms, in such a scenario, what risks would Belgium face, given its economic and commercial partnership relations with the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u13	Without transition, I shall pass the floor to Mrs Van Bossuyt, who has tabled three questions on the same subject. In order not to have to give him the floor in a few minutes, I invite him to ask his questions from the outset.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u14	Minister, I have some questions about the Brexit. A first set of questions concerns the measures taken to support our companies and entrepreneurs in the event of a no deal Brexit...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u15	Is there a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u16	We've been cut off, so if you could take your questions back, Mrs. Van Bossuyt, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u17	In that case, Mr President, I refer to the written version of my first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u18	I come to my question about the further evolution in the Brexit negotiations, which unfortunately have now been pushed back to the background by the corona crisis. However, the deadline is approaching. You will see an option to postpone the talks until the end of 2020. Has that option been put on the table yet? As regards the concrete and further agreements on the socio-economic impact of a possible no-deal Brexit, the Globalisation Fund will be deployed. In addition to the Recovery Fund, there is now a Brexit Fund of EUR 5 billion. Is there any additional resources available? What do you think are the main consequences of the Internal Market Bill, as it has now been adopted in the United Kingdom? If this happens, it will undoubtedly have an impact on the peace process in Northern Ireland. Do you think there are any other consequences? My final question concerns the Brexit High Level Group, which was set up by then Minister Kris Peeters. The group is chaired by Buysse. How is the political representation in the High Level Group arranged? On what criteria is it decided which political representatives are at the table? Whose question is this group being convened?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u19	Question No 55007274C by Mr Bayet, absent, was withdrawn and question No 55008591C by Mrs Jadin was transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u20	Mr President, Minister, fellow Commissioners have already outlined the situation: the UK's exit from the European Union without a new EU agreement may be a realistic scenario. It is therefore crucial that Belgium is prepared for that effective exit, with or without agreement. My questions are about that preparation. The European budget provides for a Brexit adjustment reserve of EUR 5 billion, as you yourself have mentioned. The European Commission will propose its distribution in November 2020. It is important that the criteria for distribution are somewhat aligned with the Belgian situation. Minister, what, according to the federal government, should be the criteria for claiming the Brexit adjustment reserve? To what extent has agreement already been reached with the Länder? Has federal diplomacy already consulted with the European Commission on the criteria? How much money could Belgium count on? What will that be spent on? How much financial investment has the federal government itself already made in preparations for the Brexit, for example customs adjustments? In what way has the federal government taken into account a hard Brexit? Should federal legislation be amended and, if so, which one? The Brexit can cause a potential traffic problem in West Flanders, where I live. The British Minister also mentioned possible problems in France, but said that it was France's responsibility to solve these problems. To what extent does the federal government provide additional police support for the local police? Is the federal government prepared to make available the airports of Koksijde and Ursel for the storage of trucks, if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the entry into force of the withdrawal agreement on 31 January 2020 at midnight, eight formal rounds of negotiations have taken place, London has not asked for the transitional period to be extended and, unfortunately, we have to note that little progress has been made on the important issues. Moreover, the UK Internal Market Bill of 9 September also raises serious questions about the UK's commitment to respect the withdrawal agreement. Approaches continue to diverge on fundamental issues, such as maintaining fair future competition with a level playing field, fishing and a dispute resolution mechanism. In this context, the integrity of the governance model and the internal market of the Union should be ensured. At present, three months before the end of the transition period, we still do not know whether we will be able to conclude an agreement with the United Kingdom. The option of a no deal is always on the table. It is therefore necessary for our country to prepare anyway for a relationship which will be a relationship with a third country to the European Union from 1 January 2021. The federal government has been working on this for some time. I give you a few examples. The various Federal Public Services have examined which components of Belgian legislation should be adapted according to the two scenarios. The additional recruitments launched by, among others, the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security, Customs and Police are largely completed and new collaborators and collaborators have been trained. New communication campaigns for businesses are planned. But also the companies haven't been idle since the Brexireferendum. For example, the port of Zeebrugge, which has a strong focus on the United Kingdom, has drawn up, in cooperation with local police and customs, a contingency plan to avoid and deal with any problems with waiting trucks as far as possible. However, it is also important that our small and medium-sized enterprises take the necessary steps not to be surprised at the start of next year by the inevitable administrative and logistical obstacles that the status of a third country in the United Kingdom entails. At European level, the Commission has taken several initiatives such as the publication on 9 July of a communication on administrative measures to be taken. It has also updated, on its website, dozens of thematic fact sheets containing opinions for public authorities and businesses on a wide range of areas in which changes are expected from next year. In addition, two instruments are planned to provide financial assistance to Member States in order to mitigate the negative impact of Brexit. The first of these instruments is the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which supports people who lose their jobs, the second is the €5 billion Brexit Adjustment Reserve, approved at the European Council last July. The criteria for allocating these financial resources will be determined in the coming weeks. It goes without saying that the federal government wishes, in this context, that aid be reserved for the most seriously affected countries, such as Belgium. Finally, I have a word to explain about the Brexit High Level Group. It is called together and chaired by Count Paul Buysse and its meetings are organised by the Minister of Economy. As previously answered to parliamentary questions, representatives from various Belgian sectors are part of this, as are the governor of the National Bank and the CEOs of regional export and investment services. At the recent 16th meeting of the High Level Group on 23 September, I was present as Minister for European Affairs to explain the Belgian position on the Brexit negotiations. Two guest speakers, Didier Seeuws, the Director of the Task Force for the United Kingdom of the Council Secretariat, and Kris Peeters, were invited to present the European Parliament's vision. Michel Barnier was also present several times before. The purpose of these meetings is, on the one hand, to be able to listen to and communicate with industry and, on the other hand, to share and discuss experience on export markets and macroeconomic analyses with industry representatives. The same thing happened on September 23rd. The participants received the most recent Brexit monitoring, a joint analysis by the National Bank, the Federal Planning Bureau and the FPS Economy, which you can consult on the website of the FPS Economy. They discussed, among other things, the developments in the negotiations with the United Kingdom and the preparations of our governments and companies at the end of the transition period. As regards that latter element, several participants confirmed what I mentioned earlier, namely that some SMEs will have to make an additional effort to be ready for the new situation from 1 January 2020. In this context, I would also like to mention that the FPS Economy, in cooperation with the VBO, is organising on 28 October a large webinar for companies which will address several important concrete issues such as logistics, customs, social security and plant health controls. As you can see, on the difficult road to a possible agreement with the United Kingdom, we are still faced with many obstacles. It is therefore crucial that the 27 EU Member States remain united in supporting the Commission's main negotiator, Michel Barnier. I have met Mr Barnier several times over the last few months and I can assure you that the European Union is in the best possible hands with him in the difficult circumstances we face.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u22	Minister, thank you. I think many of us regret what is happening now. Unfortunately, it seems that Britain, in this case the one that is manoeuvring in this country, implements the famous phrase from Winston Churchill to de Gaulle in 1944: "Every time we have to choose between Europe and the great wide, we will always choose the great wide." At the time, the great wide represented the opposition between Roosevelt's strategic vision and that of General de Gaulle. Here it seems that the British Government ignores the fact that the European Union is the most important trading partner. It seems to be turning against them. Unfortunately, this will not be without consequences for the European Union or for our country. I am reassured that you have made every effort to ensure that we are prepared for the worst. Thank you. Minister, I have been a Member of Parliament since March of this year, but I have really met you on the Justice Committee. Thank you for your cooperation with Parliament. I appreciate that very much and wish you the best for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u23	Minister, I am pleased that the additional staff sought for customs and the BFSA, among other things, has been found and that these people have already been involved. If I understand correctly, Kris Peeters was invited as a guest speaker at the latest meeting of the Brexit High Level Group. I would like to make a suggestion to invite Members of Parliament from other parties in the future. You announce a webinar on 28 October, which will be organized by the VBO. This will certainly not be an unnecessary luxury, because many companies still underestimate the impact of a possible no-deal Brexit. All the help they can get to prepare for this is therefore welcome. Finally, you say that you have met Mr Barnier several times. I hope that next time you will wish him a great deal of courage and perseverance in order to avoid landing in a no-deal Brexit, which will certainly not be an easy task. Unfortunately, most of the signals about this are not positive. I also wish you all the best for the future, of course, and wish to thank you in advance for the efforts you yourself have made as a royal contractor to bring about a possible other coalition, but well. We are where we are and we will all move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u24	Even with an agreement, Minister, the waiting times at the border are at risk. The port of Zeebrugge has a contingency plan, but I would like to know if a commitment has already been made to provide local assistance in West Flanders, if the waiting times are up. That's my fourth question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u25	Question No 55007811C by Mr Cogolati is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u26	Minister, I refer to the texts of my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u27	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, the establishment of a conditionality linked to respect for the rule of law in order to access European funds has been a priority for Belgium since the start of negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. In this context, the Commission's initial proposal clearly received our preference and was supported by our country. It provided for the Council of the European Union to obtain the support of a qualified majority of Member States in order to deviate from the Commission's proposal to find a default in the rule of law. It was therefore a reverse qualified majority. However, at the European Council held from 17 to 21 July, the Heads of State and Government decided that, contrary to its original proposal, the Commission now needed the support of a qualified majority of Member States in order to have measures adopted to remedy the default of the rule of law in a Member State. The European Council will also take up this issue in order to ensure political guidance at the highest level. Since then, Belgium has consistently supported the speedy transposition of these conclusions into a regulation which is due to enter into force on 1 January 2021. To this end, the German Presidency has presented a new compromise text in order to obtain a mandate from the Council and to start interinstitutional negotiations with the European Parliament and the Commission. In this context, Belgium will remain vigilant to ensure that the Union's financial interests are effectively protected in the event of widespread infringement of the rule of law in a Member State. With regard specifically to the situation in Poland, and to answer your question, Mr Lacroix, the fight against all forms of discrimination, including discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender characteristics, is a priority of our foreign human rights policy. This position is expressed in concrete actions and in different fora. First, our diplomatic missions participate in campaigns and events to promote the rights of LGBTQI+ people all over the world, including in Warsaw, where the Belgian Embassy is coordinating the activities of countries that share the same spirit this year. Secondly, in international fora, Belgium is active in the Equal Rights Coalition, which brings together more than 40 countries that share the will to fight for LGBTQI+ rights around the world. In addition, at the 44th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, our country co-signed a joint statement on the rights of LGBTQI+ people in the context of the VOCID-19 pandemic. Finally, at European level, the Article 7 procedure was initiated against Poland in December 2017 and since then several hearings have already taken place. A statement of the question was presented at the General Affairs Council on 22 September in which I participated. Belgium has not failed, in the context of a joint intervention by the Benelux, to reiterate its support for the Commission in its role as guardian of the Treaties and guarantor of the fundamental values of the Union. In addition, several infringement proceedings are pending before the Court of Justice in respect of cases relating to the rule of law and fundamental rights in Poland, for which a decision has yet to be delivered by the Court. The situation of press freedom in Hungary is closely monitored by the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Belgian Embassy in Budapest. Our embassy, for example, meets regularly with Hungarian civil society actors and independent media journalists to assess the situation on the ground. The Commission was able to observe the worrying gradual decline in media pluralism in Hungary. At European level, the issue of press freedom in Hungary is closely monitored by the Commission, which monitors the situation, in particular in the context of the Article 7 TEU procedure launched in July 2018. A hearing under this procedure was also dedicated to this issue at the General Affairs Council in December 2019 and a state of affairs at the General Affairs Council on 22 September 2020. In addition, media pluralism in each of the Member States will be the subject of an in-depth analysis by the Commission in its first annual report on the rule of law to be discussed at the General Affairs Council in October 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u28	Minister, thank you for your clarification. Indeed, you recall that these countries, including Poland, are under the procedure of Article 7. You also recall that the Commission and the European bodies have decided, in particular on the basis of the recommendations and action of the Belgian Government as a whole, to regularly examine the rule of law in the Member States of the European Union. Nevertheless, it remains true that despite all this work – which is a consequence – of diplomacy, step by step, Poland and Hungary continue to show disincentive not only to these decisions, but even more disrespect, overtness and arrogance. I would like to point out again the very recent statements made by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on European Commissioner Věra Jourová on Europe. I really urge the Belgian Government to continue its efforts to ensure that Europe ceases to be a large market where bargaining no longer has the name of compromise but has some tolerance for values that are completely contrary to the spirit that has allowed the construction of this European Union. We must therefore be vigilant. I know that in the agreement of the new government, respect for the rule of law with the conditions for European aid is also provided for. I therefore have no doubt that the successor of the Minister, but also those responsible for the future Belgian government, will be keen to defend what is provided for in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u29	Mr Minister, I should, unfortunately, once again like to ask you about the unacceptable non-respect of the fundamental values of the European Union by its Member States. The Romanian Parliament has banned gender studies in schools and universities. According to an amendment to the National Education Act tabled by a theologian and senator from a small centre-right party, the PMP "are prohibited activities propagating the theory or opinions on gender identity according to which gender is a different concept from biological sex and both are not always identical". Several non-governmental organisations and student and student associations, supported by an online petition that collected more than 16,000 signatures in a few hours, urged the President not to endorse this ban that "fails Romania's obligations" with international bodies. This vote takes place after the elected representatives have eliminated a text allowing schools to introduce sex education courses in that Member State, which, it should be recalled, records the highest rate of childbirth of minors, according to a Eurostat report dating back to 2019. Before Romania, neighbouring Hungary, which we have just mentioned, had also banned gender studies in 2018. Mr Minister, could you please tell me whether, at European level, you have put this debate on the agenda in the Council. Bilaterally, in cooperation with your colleague in charge of foreign affairs, have you discussed this issue with the Romanian authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u30	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, the developments in Romania you are talking about are indeed a source of questions and are closely followed by our diplomatic post in Bucharest and our administration in Brussels. Regular contacts also take place with Romanian civil society. However, I would like to point out that the legislative process is, for the time being, still under way. This law has not yet been promulgated by the President. Women's rights, gender equality and non-discrimination are priorities of Belgium's foreign policy. In the current context, where we are witnessing an international setback against women's rights and gender equality, Belgium regularly addresses these issues at both the multilateral, European and bilateral levels. In doing so, our country defends the use of the concept of gender, which indeed covers a broader reality than biological sex by referring to the construction of social relations between the sexes. Gender studies, as well as a broader integration of gender and gender stereotypes into education and the media, are of great importance in the fight against discrimination and in the realization of women's rights. The European Commission, in particular through the European Agency for Fundamental Rights, closely monitors the situation in the Member States, including Romania. The Council regularly discusses the question of respect for fundamental rights within it. In particular, this will be discussed at the Justice and Home Affairs Council in the coming months. It will also be part of the rule of law dialogue in this autumn's General Affairs Council. Belgium continues to support the Commission in its role as guardian of the European Treaties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u31	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which is in line with your answer to my questions on Hungary and Poland. Generally speaking, you remain consistent in the defence of human rights. You recalled the correct definition of gender as accepted in a democratic State governed by the rule of law and respectful of the diversity of others. If Romania has not yet taken the step, the legislative process has not been completed since this law has not yet been promulgated, Europe must remain attentive to all these slippages that follow each other and which, obviously, are the result of a reflection that transcends ideological currents. Indeed, Poland and Hungary are states where the current is rather conservative. In principle, in Romania, a majority of political thinking does not come under this trend. As a democrat and a man of progress, independent of ideological divisions and parties, I am concerned that in Europe there has been an upsurge in a form of significant rampant extremism that is very dangerous for the rule of law and, in particular, for minorities, and in this case for a majority of women.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u32	Questions Nos 55007689C and 5509059C by Mr Cogolati as well as questions Nos 55008415C and 55008416C by Ms Jadin are transformed into written questions. This is the end of this meeting. Mr Minister, on behalf of this committee, allow me to pay tribute to your remarkable work. We have not often had the opportunity to discuss this committee with you as the minister responsible for European affairs because of your busy agenda and because this competence has been assigned to you at a particular time in the Belgian Government's timetable. But when that was the case, the answers you provided were accurate, built and intelligent. Although we have not always agreed, under the outgoing government and under other governments, on a personal basis, I would like to salute your personality, your ability to overcome divisions, your field of reflection and the human person behind the minister. It will therefore be a pleasure for us to have the opportunity, since this is not your final sitting, to work together on matters essential for the future of our citizens, of our Europe and of the world. Thank you officially and personally!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u33	Mr President, if I may, as other Members have also thanked me, I would like to say that it is a pleasure to exercise this competence. I've been very keen to exercise that authority, as have those of finance. I remember your presence in my Finance Committee at the time, like the Justice Committee. I also remember the meetings in connection with the Directorate of Buildings, on which I will now answer questions in the other committee. It is with great pleasure that I will join you in the committee in setting up ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic273x.u34	I thus close this committee meeting and thank the colleagues who took part in it.
