ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen – or rather, gentlemen, since there are no ladies among the parliamentarians present – can we decencyly deliberate? You are present as experts, but no lady among the parliamentarians. First observation. I was asked by the chairman of the committee to provide the service during this summer period. (In my opinion, he saw my slogan "Flahaut dispo"!) Some members requested that this Defence Committee be convened, together with an exchange of views with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, on the decision of the President of the United States to redeploy US troops to European territory and the role of Belgium as host country. A full report and summary record of the meeting will be prepared, which will exempt us from appointing a rapporteur. I therefore propose that you immediately give the floor to the minister, who will set the context for this decision or the announcement of this decision. I shall then pass the floor to each other, according to the established rules and the importance of political groups or families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u2	Mr. President, I thought your slogan was "Allo Flahaut". I think he's changed to "Flahaut dispo".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u3	Both are valid. They're connected. They've been sticking me to my skin for decades! And it always works and everywhere!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the US Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper, announced on 29 July 2020 the redeployment of some 11,900 military personnel from Germany to the United States and other European countries, including Belgium. At the prelable, Mr. Esper had made contact with each ally. In my case, this interview in the normal consultation process between Allies had taken place on Friday, 24 July. What can be said about this announcement and the possible impact for Belgium? It concerns the so-called concept of US Command Force Posture Review in Europe. 11,900 soldiers are taken from Germany. Part of them, about 6,000, returns to the United States. Some 5,000 would be redistributed to other European countries, including Belgium. This concept is consistent with the American National Defense Strategy, the NATO Military Strategy and the concept for Deterrence and Defense of the Euro-Atlantic area. Mark Esper emphasises five objectives: to strengthen overall deterrence and defense posture vis-à-vis Russia, to strengthen NATO, to reassure certain Allies, to increase US strategic flexibility and operational flexibility of US forces in Europe, EUCOM, and to better take care of US military and their families. The United States therefore continues to commit itself to NATO and the security of Europe. The EUCOM plan currently provides for the repositioning of 5,600 troops in other NATO countries, notably in Belgium and Italy, where several headquarters could be co-located with a NATO headquarters. Without going into the details at the level of NATO countries that could host these relocations from US ground and air headquarters, the aim is to align NATO and EUCOM capabilities, to better distribute forces in Europe and to increase their rotation. It is therefore a concept. Nothing is definitively established but Belgium could be concerned in the following way. EUCOM headquarters, currently based in Stuttgart, could be co-located with SHAPE NATO headquarters in Mons. In line with the relocation of EUCOM headquarters, Special Command Europe headquarters could also be moved to Mons. Other smaller headquarters as well as an anti-aircraft battalion and a engineering battalion could move to the Chaèvres airfield near Mons. The possible impact for Belgium can be estimated at about 2,000 soldiers, mainly at the base of Chièvres but also at SHAPE in Mons. For the time being, therefore, this is still a concept that needs to be further worked out in detail, in close consultation with the Allies and their partners. Mark Esper stresses that the proposed plan is not yet final and is likely to evolve. He also mentioned that some shifts could continue in the short term and that large relocations require several years of planning and implementation. So the timing isn't certain. Moreover, the costs for this Posture Review will be enormous, not only in Europe, but also in the United States. The concrete implementation will therefore also depend on the financial approval of the US Congress. In a word, in general, this is a concept that can evolve and it would be wrong to think that this is a case that would be settled. For Belgium in particular, it is simply a matter of keeping an eye on the possible implications for American settlements in the national territory. At the Belgian level, what is the reading of this announcement? Why is there a possible transfer of 2,000 US military personnel to Belgium, as Mark Esper has indicated and as I have just commented on it? First and foremost, it is a rationalisation. General Tod Wolters is both SACEUR and head of the U.S. Armed Forces in Europe. He's at SHAPE in Mons. It seems logical that EUCOM headquarters should also move to Mons. The plan concept is therefore independent of the level of our defence efforts and aims above all at maximum efficiency, coherence and unity of command. We can assume that the plan would look completely different if SHAPE were not located in Belgium. I come to the third part of my presentation, in terms of the House Nation Support aspect and the aspect of the status of the American military in Belgium. At the request of SHAPE and in the name of all nations, the Belgian Defence is currently working on the project for the new headquarters of SHAPE. Any move from US headquarters EUCOM and Special Operation will certainly require infrastructure work. It concerns two different issues: SHAPE (NATO) versus EUCOM and Special Operation (United States). The financing of the repositioning of the U.S. forces towards Belgium is not borne by the Allies but by the United States itself. At the moment, we are not aware of any expectation of co-financing infrastructure. Is there room for any new arrivals to Mons and Chièvres? That is also a question to be asked. The operation that should be preferred is that of an American headquarters next to SHAPE headquarters. As a second priority and for the remaining staff as well as a possible additional school, the Chièvres site is an alternative. The United States is likely to turn to Belgium for an expanded Host Nation Support. In terms of principles, this is a project led by the American side, but the location and status of the forces must be the subject of prior agreement. Like what was done during the construction of the new American school, the construction of the EUCOM building could be entrusted to the U.S. EUCOM Corps of Engineers. For information, I would like to inform you that the current seat policy for SHAPE is about EUR 12 million on an annual basis. This amount includes the following aspects: betting for a doctor and dentist, expenditure on surveillance services on the site of SHAPE, commands Force Protection, access control SHAPE and fighting cost of the orders of the relief zone, HeliCentre for the benefit of SHAPE, Belgian participation in the operating costs of the international school of SHAPE. Finally, I come to the legal status of the American military in Belgium. If the concept was developed and a move was to take place, a specific bilateral treaty between the United States and Belgium would have to be concluded to cover the status of American units. In fact, in the absence of a bilateral treaty between the two countries, the US military would be under the status of the 1951 NATO SOFA generic treaty, thus under a status less favourable than that of the US military assigned to SHAPE headquarters, which are under the application of a convention signed between Belgium and SHAPE in 1967. In the past, the United States has established such a specific bilateral treaty with Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. If you are looking for a rapporteur, I will be a candidate if necessary. I don't know if anyone's volunteered yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u6	Mr Franken, at the beginning of the committee, before you join us, I said that there would be a full report and a summary record, which exempts us from having to appoint a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u7	Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your release. I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for observing the honours during the parliamentary recess. I thought it was necessary to bring our committee together, because it is a heavy decision that has an impact on our country. It is important in these bizarre times that Parliament can meet quickly and work efficiently. After all, there are a lot of people who have other concerns about employment than ours, for example. That is why it is good that politics shows that we are always ready. Either way, this is an important decision by the American President. I remember a number of things, Minister. There's a lot of probation in it. You say the decision is not final yet. Congress has yet to give its victory. Then there are also the American presidential elections, which can throw soot in the food. I assume that, if Joe Biden is elected, the democrats can have a different view of it and build another relationship with Germany. However, I noticed during the campaign four years ago that both Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump made the same statement about a higher contribution from the European Member States and their partners to NATO. Barack Obama was also particularly strict on the European partners, because they did not contribute much to NATO. President Trump has pushed things further. The question now is whether the democrats have changed their minds and whether they are going for a softer approach. Do they have a different opinion on the contribution of Germany and Belgium among others? It hasn't been said yet that the decision will be reduced if Joe Biden becomes the new president. The withdrawal of a number of troops from Europe may also be supported by the democrats because they also believe that the European partners should contribute more to NATO's budget and NATO's military operations. So the issue is still in the air at the moment. There's no certainty yet. So we have to be careful. I am, of course, satisfied with that decision. I find it remarkable that SHAPE is chosen in Casteau and Chièvres. That doesn't make any sense. After all, it's about an artillery battalion. In Brasschaat there is also an artillery battalion. Then why choose Chièvres? Is there a reason for that? Or maybe I misunderstood? Have you received any explanation from the Ministry of Defence as to why Belgium is being elected, Minister? I hear all kinds of things, it would be because we have chosen the F-35 or because our recently adopted resolution on Operation Inherent Resolve, which has brought us back to Syria with F-16 capacity, has been very positive. Are those elements? On the other hand, Belgium is a very poor student in terms of NATO contribution. The US punishes Germany because it does too little and repositions to Belgium, which does even less. That's kind of weird, of course. Has the American defence staff or the political world in Washington explained this to you yet? That's not entirely clear to me. Of course, the N-VA and our group have always supported the purchase of the F-35 and of course also Operation Inherent Resolve. We are satisfied that additional military capacity would be created on Belgian territory. That would confirm the band and the important role of Brussels, but also of Belgium, as one of the pillars of NATO, with SHAPE in Casteau and the headquarters in Evere. We would like to see our international role as a diplomatic capital, as an important core area and founding father of the European Union and NATO reaffirmed. That's very positive. We can only be satisfied that resettlement is taking place in Belgium, but I am less enthusiastic that fewer troops will be stationed in Europe. It is also not so interesting that Germany should be the victim of this. It is interesting, however, that if that decision is taken, then Belgium will be chosen. Of course, it makes me happy and proud that our country is being chosen for the repositioning of the troops. What stage is the decision at? When would Congress decide on this? Do you have a visual on that? When will the bilateral negotiations start on the special status and infrastructure? There would be insufficient room, even in the military quarter in Casteau. Does the decision interfere with the plans for a new SHAPE of 140 million euros? The call for tenders is ongoing. Does it have to be extended? Or is the new SHAPE still standing and is it a separate assignment? Colleagues, I think it is very good that we show that we are a loyal partner in NATO. My motion for a resolution on NATO was voted down by the PS, by Ecolo and, of course, by the PTB, but the latter prefer us to be allies in the Warsaw Pact. I'm sorry about that. The purchase of the F-35s is highly controversial. For the Operation Inherent Resolve there were votes against. Now 2,000 soldiers will be stationed in Wallonia, with many hundreds of new jobs. I can see the irony of that. The parties in Wallonia are against everything NATO does. They're voting against Operation Inherent Resolve. They're voting against the NATO resolution. They're voting against the F-35 purchases. But the decision will be accompanied by new jobs and more prestige. I call on my colleagues from the various parties, especially the Walloon colleagues, to be more realistic, because what NATO is doing is not all of the devil. It will once again create a lot of jobs for many hundreds of people in Wallonia and Hainaut, where jobs are still very welcome. We'll see how things go on. I would like to thank you very much. I hope that contacts with the Americans will remain very good. I trust you and your staff, Minister. You're a big diplomat, so you'll be fine. Let us hope that we will soon have more concrete news and that the negotiations on this agreement and the infrastructure will be positive. I think we can do our part, because it is an important and important step in the development of American troops on European territory. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about this. I don't think it can be a signal that we have our business on dry land. I think we should be careful. Many people think that 2% is too much money for the Defense Department, that it is unrealistic to achieve such a standard, that there are other priorities such as health care in corona times and social spending and that we should leave Defence behind. Some might argue that even with our investment of 1%, we still opt for Belgium and that we really do not need to make any more efforts. I think that is a totally wrong conclusion given what is happening in the world and in NATO. The decision must not just be the signal that we have our sheep on dry land and that we are in good shape. Belgium performs well with Operation Inherent Resolve and also with the purchase of the F-35s. We continue to be prepared to do our work in terms of operations and interoperability, and we are also diplomatically strong. However, in terms of spending on defence, we absolutely need to do more, we need to step up our efforts, otherwise we too will be in the eyes of the United States and other partners. Defence is like insurance, if one does not pay the premium and then a fire arises, then one really has trouble. I cannot stress that enough, but I certainly do not think I need to convince you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u8	Minister, first of all thank you for this presentation. We understand that the event of the move is still conditional. This is announced but no date has been set and no budget has been set. Has a working group been established to assess defence implications? I have two questions about the possible contacts you might have had with the US authorities but also with the German authorities. This is indeed a move of about 2,000 soldiers to Belgium. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u9	Mr. Chairman, I'll surprise you, but you're suis quand meme une lady. That will correct your first words this morning, and I will not blame you. Mr Minister, you have already explained the matter in detail. So I can be brief. Of course, we have a number of questions with regard to the announcements that have been made. You also confirm that we are talking about announcements: it is a concept that can be reviewed. It is said that this depends on the increase in the contribution of the German government to NATO. The latter is then immediately indicated as the main reason to motivate the American announcements. Allow me to at least find strange that that reason is mainly cited. Belgium is now being suggested as one of the possible alternative locations, while it is kicking in an open door to say that our country is not immediately a model in terms of its contributions to NATO. The United States has not spared its criticism of this in recent years. However, you are talking in an opinion document about a'sign of trust' in the Belgian NATO role. Can you explain that? In spite of Belgium's lack of investment in NATO, can you still describe it as a sign of confidence in our role as a NATO Member State? I also have a number of questions about the consultations that have taken place. Has there been bilateral consultations between the US and Belgium at the moment? And above all: did the same thing happen between Germany and Belgium? After all, we are both involved in the decision that could fall. How is the decision to choose Belgium in the circumstances justified? I'm very curious about the motivation of the United States. A number of colleagues have already mentioned this: it seems to me that this might send a bad signal to those countries which are now being considered as alternatives. Apparently, additional investments in Defense aren't really necessary. That could mean that the message from the Defence Department to ask for budget increases to achieve the NATO target is undermined by this decision or by giving this signal. It is very strange that this signal should be sent to a country such as Belgium, but also to a number of other countries that are mentioned in order not to regard NATO's efforts as a priority and to achieve the necessary efforts or impact in their own country. The decision proposed would have a major economic impact on Germany. How do you currently estimate the economic, financial, but also the logistical impact for Belgium? Logistics, as you have said, will also have to make some adjustments. How do you estimate the impact for Belgium at the moment? To what extent is Defence or Belgium already preparing for the possible scenario that will be implemented? At the moment, how much do you estimate the possibility of revising the proposed scenario, taking into account the presidential elections and the adjustments to budgetary efforts in Germany, among others?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u10	It is true that there is a lady in the assembly but she is not physically present in this room. That is what I have seen, but I am not unaware, Mrs Ponthier, that you are a lady and a committee chair. I think I have re-established the truth, so that it is not held against me. It is now the turn of the MR group, but there is no request for intervention. Excuse me, it seems that Mr Bombled has asked for the floor. I'll give it to him immediately. This kind of meeting is not easy to manage!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u11	Mr. Chairman, be assured, you manage the meeting very well. Minister, I hear the arguments that you have put forward. You're actually relaying the arguments of Mark Esper, the head of the Pentagon. These are arguments for rationalisation. Since it is the same American general who commands both EUCOM and SHAPE, this would prevent him from travelling between Stuttgart, the current headquarters of EUCOM, and Casteau, where SHAPE is already present. I also hear arguments that the aim of this realignment is to strengthen NATO, reassure the Allies, improve the operational flexibility of the United States and raise the level of deterrence of the United States and NATO against Russia. But the point is that just after that announcement, there were the other arguments, those of the President of the United States, which are based solely on the fact that Germany is not giving enough money to NATO. In other words, this means that Germany does not pay its bills and that, if it paid more, this repatriation decision would ultimately be considered null and void. President Trump would open the door to a possibility of staying in Germany if Germany were to put its hands on the portfolio. From an economic point of view, it would obviously be a good thing if there were units of command and American soldiers in the territory of Casteau. The whole region of Montoise would benefit economically. However, Mr Minister, will this move and transfer of US soldiers to other European countries, including Belgium, not undermine the confidence of Germany, which loses military personnel on its territory, with other European NATO countries, including Belgium, which has nothing to do with it and would inherit the additional presence of US military personnel? Is this possible lack of confidence between the Member States not likely to weaken NATO in the short term? Moreover, in November 2020 the US presidential elections are held. Soon, a vote by Congress will take place to discuss the financing of this transfer of military personnel with the possible construction of additional infrastructure. But if a new president is elected, this redeployment plan announced by the head of the Pentagon may not be implemented. Thank you in advance for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u12	Minister, thank you for your digital presence in our exchange of views, because we cannot take the decision lightly. 2,000 American soldiers will move from Stuttgart to our country and the American headquarters of the European armed forces will also be housed in Belgium. That's a decision with a big impact. It bothers me a little that we are discussing a fact, at least if it depends on the Belgian Government, which does not really have democratic support for it. The decision is, of course, conditional and still depends on the US Congress. Some domestic political factors will determine whether or not that plan will become a reality, not least in the forthcoming American elections. We are pretending that it is good news that the American forces are being transferred to our country, as if we should be happy about that. In recent years, however, the population has been very critical of the United States' foreign policy and the aggressive rhetoric of the President. Every time he opens his mouth, he makes the world a little more dangerous and unstable. So we must not beat on our chests and cheer, because Belgium is becoming an important and strategic military hub. When we talk about democratic acceptance, opinion polls teach us that two thirds of the population actually want our country to sign the treaty that regulates the prohibition of nuclear weapons. That ban was signed by 122 countries in 2017, but our country missed the agreement with history. We want to get rid of nuclear weapons, but American security policy and, among other things, NATO are bound to do so. They are seen as an integral part of security policy, while making the world more unsafe. The figures show that 49% of citizens are opposed to the continued presence of American nuclear weapons in Kleine Brogel and that two thirds are in favour of the signing of that nuclear weapons treaty. There was already a great deal of resistance to the purchase of the F-35, because one has to explain what that actually has to do with defence. After all, they bought 35 nuclear-capacity killing machines that can be used for attack missions. What else does that have to do with DOD? Now we would also house the troops here. At least we're not going on the good news show. Rather, we think it is a dangerous evolution, because our country continues to subscribe to the aggressive policy of the US, which is currently rearranging its troops, also with a view to increasing tensions with Russia. The troops that are withdrawn will probably also be deployed more on the Asian stage by the US. It is also a strategic change of the Pentagon to make more work of an encircling policy vis-à-vis China. Operation Defender with NATO last year was the largest military operation at the EU's external borders with large-scale military exercises. With this we have ended up in action and reaction, the self-fulfilling prophecy and the Thomastheorema in connection with the Cold War:if they define situations as real, they are real in their consequences. If NATO continues to expand, if we analyse the rhetoric of Trump and see what is happening at the external borders, then there are, of course, constant provocations. These provocations can also lead to reactions. That's how we're in a dangerous spiral. Think also of Trump's rhetoric on nuclear weapons. We are moving towards a military doctrine in which nuclear weapons are no longer regarded as a deterrent, but as an instrument. One can and will use nuclear weapons, if necessary. We are not convinced that this is good news for our country. In this way we are also a target and we are in sight, because the Americans have a strong foot on the ground here. If we do not hesitate to use military weapons, we can of course also become targets. It is said that the presence of the U.S. military force guarantees our security. I would rather say the opposite. The way in which NATO and the US are acting now and how they are acting on the world stage is more a part of the problem than part of the solution. We also see President Trump raging a lot of aggression on the world stage. I do not think it is a healthy evolution for us to just hang our cars on them, suffer the situation patiently and simply cling to the fate of the United States. That is why I would have liked to ask a number of questions, some of which have already been addressed in the speeches made by the previous speakers. Are you not concerned that Belgium could become a potential military and even nuclear target if American troops are now housed here in addition to the European headquarters, SHAPE? What will that cost to the Belgian government? Will there be co-financing? You have already answered that, but I would like some clarification, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u13	First of all, I would like to thank the members of the N-VA for bringing this committee together. It is a good thing to keep doing what we are supposed to do in these times. If there is political topicality, we cannot wait until the summer break is over. I would also like to thank the Minister, who is not only always present at these times, but also very comprehensively answers all the questions and has already provided a comprehensive introduction. Also in his cabinet, the employees will occasionally long for rest, but it is nice to see that they continue to work hard. I was surprised when I met the rhetoric from the United States in the newspapers. Much more than a rationalization of the forces was about a lack of investment because of Germany. If it is said that the US is currently looking at how to spread and rationalise the American military on European territory as effectively as possible, it is not entirely in line with the American government's communication. To what extent is this really about rationalisation? Or is it really about not much more than what we seem to be able to tell from the American President's communication? There seems to be a link with the lack of investment by a number of European states, including Germany. I was wondering if there were any actual conversations with the United States. If so, is it talking about the possibility of additional Belgian investments in defence? A number of colleagues wonder why Belgium is circulating as an alternative location. I can answer that question. The choice has nothing to do with our investments or the lack of them: they are indeed laughably low. That's the way it works in Belgium. The fact that NATO headquarters are located in Belgium is also largely unrelated to what Belgium may have ever invested in defence. Unfortunately, these investments have never been spectacular. The choice for Belgium, on the other hand, has everything to do with the asset that Belgium is. It seems to me appropriate to emphasise that once again. A number of colleagues rightly think that extra investment in defence is necessary. They seem to be losing sight of the advantages that we, as a small country, have. The Minister also talked about a number of short-term investments or a number of short-term shifts and a number in the long-term. Some shifts could be made in the short term. I am therefore very curious to see what shifts can be made in the very short term and what impact they would have on our small country. In addition, there would be no negative financial impact. The Americans would bear the full cost. Is there also a calculation of the positive financial impact of the move to Belgium, economically for Belgium? It's interesting to map that too. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for convening this meeting. It is important that politics sends a strong signal and makes it clear that there is a need for hard work. We are in very difficult times and in these times I would like to ask all colleagues not to talk to Platitudes about other colleagues, parties or sub-regions of this country. It is not nice to talk about the Fleming, it is not nice to talk about the Walloon parties or the French-speaking parties. There's no point. I notice in this committee that there are a lot of people present with different political colors, who have different mother tongues, who may all have a different way, but all have a heart for Defence. It is a pity that the signal that we want to send out to the people, in times when we are looking for a federal government that should be there as soon as possible, is strewn with that kind of bickering that is being pushed forward to the committee. The main purpose of the committee is to consider the extent to which we can pursue the best possible policy here in the area of defence. That must not be the same type of policy for everyone, some even speak of NATO as part of the problem. This is a denial of history and a denial of the period of peace we have known in Europe over the past few decades. Let that be the debate we are having today, and not childish riots or games that actually yield very little.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for making time for this not so insignificant dossier for our country. The question is how far it will turn out that we have not been sitting here today for nothing. You yourself say that there is no concept or timing or agreement. There's no certainty in that respect. So we cannot talk about a final decision. It is true, however, that the Americans are quite concrete in this dossier. They're talking about three brigade headquarters, an air defense artillery battalion, a genius battalion. So the plans seem to be very concrete. The big question is, of course, to what extent this decision is based on a strategy. There has already been reference to Mr Trump's statement to consider when the invoices are paid. Minister, Germany has called for discussions on this transfer within NATO. Do you think that these talks will take place and when? How do you see that? I'm just gonna come back to the thought I just made. Mr Francken says that we should not think that we already have our sheep on dry land. I don't think anyone here is saying that. If we want to punish Germany in any way, it is strange that our country should be elected. Other colleagues have already mentioned that Belgium is not among the best students in the class either. I have a feeling that we in the United States are not really awake from our resolutions on NATO. I keep thinking it's a weird decision. I also looked at the press moment, where NATO's American military say there are organisational reasons. They do admit that President Trump's plans fit in there, but it has nothing to do with that. I hope that we will not turn out to be part of a major strategic game. As a Limburger I also had to think about the plans of a large Limburg music festival Pukkelpop. They wanted to move location once, too. They later had problems with the landowner. Two months later, all the problems were solved. They never moved. The future will have to explain it in this regard. Minister, I have a number of specific questions. I don't know where Chièvres is. How are we supposed to assess that? Will investment be needed there? Are there possibilities for enlargement? The United States is also talking about a co-location with SHAPE. What's that supposed to mean? Do you have a visual on that? Does this mean that they want to settle on the same site or in the neighborhood? Are there any locations available? You also indicated that a new agreement will be reached. Today there is a bilateral agreement. I suspect you mean the Status of Force Agreement. Why do we need a new agreement? Could you give us a more detailed explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u15	Mr President, I thank the Minister for coming to us in committee to explain this matter of moving the American forces based in Europe. Mr.Minister, you have explained the American arguments, but you have not communicated to us your feelings about these arguments. In any case, these are not the ones put forward by the American President himself, Mr Trump, who seems to be mainly in conflict with Angela Merkel. I therefore wonder whether we should rush into a strategy that is visibly a strategy of revenge, tension, of settling accounts vis-à-vis a European country, a friend, central in Europe, a neighbour and vis-à-vis a great European leader who, indeed, can from time to time, show that Europe is not simply part of a strategy to follow up on American decisions. Therefore, I would have liked to know how you felt about these American arguments. Has European coordination been set up for this move. Is there a European analysis in this area? It could be said that this is essentially an American case. In fact, among the arguments put forward by the Americans is the fact that this would strengthen NATO. What is your analysis of this argument? Then, what are the deadlines? This is only a concept today, but do you have a timeline? Do we know when the U.S. Congress will make its budgetary decision? Have there been any conditionalities in this move, particularly in terms of Belgian Defence expenditure? It is known that Belgium spends little and should probably spend more. Is that part of the deal with the United States? Is it Belgium that made this offer in the United States or is it the Americans that made a request? How did things happen in practice? If this is certainly an interesting operation at the economic level, is it the same with the strategic plan for Europeans and for transatlantic security? Has your department conducted an analysis of the link that there can be – what the Americans claim – with the quality of NATO's security? Finally, if this move takes place, there will be related investments in infrastructure or schools. Is US funding planned or will costs be borne by Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to the holding of this meeting, I think it is important to be able to convene a committee outside the session at any time, with the agreement of the minister concerned and in accordance with the Commissioners' requests. The regulations allow this. In my view, it is important to show public opinion that we are continuing our work during this holiday period. In fact, it is extremely difficult for parliamentarians, ministers and employees to plan holidays in the current health situation, given the total uncertainty about the conditions under which we can move.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u17	With regard to the issue before us today, it is difficult to understand the decision-making mechanism of the President of the United States and whether the decisions he takes will continue. Indeed, it took only a few hours to see differences between the President, the Secretary of State for Defence and military officials. As Mr Dallemagne has just said, we are currently working on the basis of assumptions. The question now is whether this decision will really be implemented. We are just a few weeks away (just under 100 days) from the U.S. election, and our first concern must be the attitude of Congress. Will this Congress, in its current configuration, confirm or reverse the President's decision? Similarly, is it a decision of pragmatism and economy? Maybe. Is this a logical decision to reorganize the troops? Maybe, too. Or is this a position for the redeployment of troops to other parts of the European continent or to other regions (such as the Caucasus)? In any event, this decision is part of an American strategy, not a NATO strategy. Indeed, consultation with the Allies is necessary and, in this case, there is the impression that the decisions – whether they are aimed at penalising Germany or at favouring the other Allies – have not been agreed at NATO level. The question is therefore when an open discussion will take place between political representatives at NATO level, in order to see to what extent the Allies are affected by this kind of decision. I do not think there is any connection with the F-35; we are not Turkey. Moreover, the discussion on our contribution to NATO is to be linked to the solidarity Belgium has always shown. In all NATO operations, we have always been the first to participate and the last to leave. We've never been caught in default. We are asked for our expertise and the reliability of our commitments. So it seems to me that the 2% percentage is a figure that we will not be able to reach, as the Americans in particular know. I would like to add that if a resolution was rejected, it was because it was somewhat unbalanced despite all the amendments that had been introduced and that would have led to a wider consensus. This has nothing to do with Wallonia, companies, etc. It is simply a search for efficiency between a defence policy strategy at European level and a defence policy at NATO level. Both are not opposed, but complementary. They allow better use of means or less use of means with much more efficiency. That said, it will take time for this decision to be implemented. It's not tomorrow that the installation will take place. In addition, the question arises as to whether there is sufficient room in Chièvres. The least that can be done is to listen to local authorities who are generally more favourable to welcoming US military personnel than others. But this is another debate. Then he has the question of the costs, which are enormous. In fact, account must be taken not only of the costs of building construction, but also of the peripheral costs of mobility and safety. All of this needs to be integrated. I mean, there's the fallout. Of course, we can expect certain repercussions for our headquarters policy, whether at the level of the European Union, NATO or other international institutions. But the balance must be struck between positive spillovers and burdens; it is enough to ask the mayor of Brussels and the Brussels Region how much Europe's security presence requires investment, particularly at the police level. It is too early to know whether this will have any impact on Belgians, what sectors will be involved and whether or not companies will be involved. True to their tradition, Americans could bring with them their companies to carry out security work in the interests of discretion and not to arouse the attention of other nations. Moreover, the question of the status of all this international staff who must be subject to the same legislation as Belgians must be raised. I will not recall the painful debate and the threats we have been subjected to by President Bush's team regarding the movement of US military and diplomats on our territory, when we passed the law of universal jurisdiction. This is another debate than the possible redeployment of the United States, but it is also one of our concerns in this Defence Committee. Minister, thank you for your presence and for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u18	Mr President, there were several questions. Mr Francken, Mrs Ponthier, General Wolters is either SACEUR or head of the US armed forces in Europe. He's in Bergen at SHAPE. It therefore seems logical that EUCOM headquarters should also move to Bergen. The plan is therefore independent of the level of our defence efforts and aims above all at maximum efficiency and coherence. We can assume that the plan would look completely different if SHAPE were not located in Bergen. You also asked me why Chièvres was chosen. They chose this location because there are already US soldiers in Chièvres. The location is interesting, because there are two installations available, an airport and a barracks. Mr Vicar, you asked me what information channels were mine. As I indicated, I was in telephone contact with the United States on 24 July and took note of the information they provided to me. I was told that the official announcement would follow in the next few days, which was the case five days later. Some Members spoke of a concept. Indeed, it is an announcement of a concept and it can be revised. You also asked me why Belgium was chosen in the light of our contribution to the NATO budget. I would like to point out that we are present in several countries outside Europe, for example in Afghanistan for NATO, in Mali for the EUTM operation. We are also part of the anti-Daesh coalition with four F16 aircraft from October 2020. It is because of this element that our defence, with its own means, can, whenever it is called upon, demonstrate its effectiveness, availability and credibility. Indeed, you are very, very many to say – and I thank you for that – we have a quality defence. And the people who work in defence can attest to it every day. Our know-how is internationally recognized. If you allow me to do a little parenthesis with my foreign affairs skills, I often say that Belgium's foreign affairs weight is inversely proportional to the size of our country, because we have quality people – we don't say enough. In our country, we sometimes tend to be in sinistrose and in the negative approach, this is not my approach. In fact, this credibility is the result of a long work and this quality is demonstrated on a daily basis. Mrs Ponthier, Mr Dallemagne and Mr Flahaut, you asked a question about the financing of the repositioning of the American armed forces to Belgium. The costs of repositioning are not borne by the Allies, but by the United States itself. At the moment, we do not know whether the US expects to co-finance the infrastructure. Mr Bombled, as far as our attitude towards Germany is concerned, we must be clear. We have not had a proactive approach to the United States to any influence on this matter. We have taken note of this plan and the associated statements. A statement had also been made recently. Some of you mentioned that. It is indeed quite special to note that Mr Esper had just announced the plan last week, which President Trump said he was ready to return to the plan if Germany increased its financial contribution to NATO. You will understand that, in this context, the reaction that is mine is a matter of extreme caution – you have also expressed it – and it is above all a restraint. Clearly, there was no approach of any kind taken by Belgium in the preparation of this plan. Mr Mahdi, you asked for assessments of the positive impact. So far no evaluation has been made of a positive impact on the Belgian economy or on Belgium in general. Mr Dallemagne, you asked me about my feeling about this announcement. I will first express prudence and restraint. I do not want to be hasty because I know the steps that remain to be taken on the United States side. I believe, however, that it is important to say to our Allies and to public opinion that there has been no proactive approach on our part, that it is only an act and that there are still steps to be taken. Mr President, you have indicated that there is a lot of conditionality in this plan. I recalled the President's rather changing statements and the fact that a democratic deadline is waiting for the Americans in the coming weeks, with Joe Biden's announcements about this plan. I therefore think that it is too early to go beyond considerations. It was good that the committee could meet to exchange information because the information was important. Even if we are only at the stage of taking action of a possible process, we will have been quite cautious in our respective expressions. I remain available to answer the questions and provide the necessary clarifications. This is a concept, Belgium has taken note of it, there are still many steps. The reasons for this are based on the existing operational situation. This is an American approach with US funding and collateral effects have not been evaluated. I have no doubt that this will be the subject of fruitful discussions in this committee, but also in international bodies. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u19	Minister, thank you. In your answer, we discover the facets of your dual function, both Defence and International Relations, with all the diplomacy required. As agreed, I propose to those who have spoken to respond, if they so wish, to the minister's comments, the last word of course belonging to Parliament. I'm looking at Mr. Franken. I see he's gone. Mr Vicar does not wish to intervene and, personally, I think I have spoken sufficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u20	I am still here, Mr President, but I have no questions. The answers were clear and clear. Good luck and hopefully see you soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u21	Are you speaking to the chairman of the commission or to the minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u22	To both of you, my favorite French speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u23	I would like to thank the Minister for explaining the conditionality of this decision, the so-called draft phase. He has made that very clear. Minister, you say that the Belgian authorities have not acted proactively, nor have they made an official commitment. We'll follow up on the situation further. For the record, I don't think anyone in this committee is questioning the quality and expertise of our defense. I want to make that clear. The view you have expressed in your opinion document has been further explained to you, for which I am grateful. However, it seems very important to me that the agreements reached in future consultations with all the partners involved at NATO level and at bilateral level should be clearly reflected. It is also important that the economic, financial and logistical impact is clearly communicated and discussed in the interests of Defence in this country. We'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u24	I would like to thank the Minister for his answer. He has shown that he is working on diplomatic international relations that are also important in addition to Defense. That is why I would also like to stress that we must be careful not to welcome President Trump's chess game, because one move now suits us well. Above all, we must ensure that we can maintain the strong relations we have with all our other European allies. I hope that the talks with the Americans will be well conducted in the event of rationalisation. In addition, we must ensure that we are not played out among European states. We must invest much more in defence, but we must also remain each other's allies. After all, it would be a wrong signal if relations were to cloud because of that. I am confident that the Minister will do the right thing in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u25	Thank you for your answers, Minister, but unfortunately I have not received an answer to some of my questions. An exchange of views is being held today, but it is a failure agreement. In fact, they had already decided and even welcomed the decision. The American troops are housed here. This is democracy by date. Parliament was not involved. We are invited to take note of it. Minister, if the conditionality is no longer there, after the American elections, and the concept becomes realistic, will there be an exchange of views before the decision is taken? It is important to consult the public on this, because there is a gap between public acceptance and the decisions you think you should take. Unfortunately, Mr Francken has already left the arena. He stated that we would still be in the Warsaw Pact, but I must disappoint him; the Warsaw Pact was disintegrated in 1991, when the Soviet Union broke up, which ultimately explains why NATO no longer has any reason to exist. It is a pity that we are constantly stuck within the framework of NATO and the United States' security policy, because we have an international body, the highest body that decides on war and peace and respects the principle of collective security, namely the United Nations. We need to invest in that. Belgium must use its role in promoting an active peace policy, demilitarisation and the dismantling of the nuclear arsenal. We are constantly talking about military expenditure which should be raised to 2%, because we must be a good student. $1,000 billion is spent annually on modernising and renewing nuclear weapons. Imagine that these resources would be used to eliminate the causes of many conflicts, rather than always fighting and militarising them. So, Minister, try to make good use of the role that we have in the Security Council, to pursue an independent peace policy and, in particular, to find the way for the political compromise, rather than always linking our car to the United States. Mr Mahdi, I hear you say that NATO has ensured peace and security. I would therefore like to remind you of the latest NATO intervention in Libya. What's Libya like now? There is slavery again. The central authority is completely gone. The country is completely destabilised. It has also caused an incredible flow of refugees. With this example, I would like to strengthen my reasoning. NATO is not really part of the solution but part of the problem in that area, if we continue to cling to the aggressive intervention policy of the United States. It is therefore hypocritical and contradictory as the same parties that embrace it are critical of migratory waves. Just that destabilization of the Middle East by the United States has triggered these flows of refugees. So that is super hypocritical and very contradictory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u26	Mr De Vuyst, this is the demonstration that in politics everything is in everything and vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u27	I would like to thank the Minister for his answer. He has put it a little more diplomatically, but I do hear a lot of doubt about what will happen in the coming months. It is good that it is followed up properly, but there is no point in putting a great deal of energy into evaluations and so on until we know which way this is going international.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. You are right to be cautious, but I do not think we should be passive in the face of this concept or this proposal for a decision – if I can call it that – by the Americans. Mr Minister, I would have liked you to be able, in the coming weeks, to present to Parliament the information we lack today. What would be the economic impact – both positive and negative – on Belgium of such a transfer? I would also like to see the establishment of a European concertation in this respect, so that the voice of Europe can speak against the American voice. Europe must indeed be able to say what it thinks of this move in relation to its security and the Atlantic Alliance, since this is, once again, one of the arguments put forward by President Trump. Finally, it seems clear to me that NATO must also speak on this issue. We have heard the Secretary-General, also very cautious, take note of the American decision, but I would like us to go beyond taking action. We can't dance like the American president whistles! It is important that Europeans and Belgians can have an reasoned and documented opinion on such a transfer and on the desirability of such a transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we have fulfilled our contract for this day, and I have no doubt that we will have other opportunities to meet again in committees by the end of the holidays. I thank the Minister for his availability and the services of the House that have dealt with the technical management and the usual accompaniment of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your time in this presentation. I see that Mrs Christine De Backer is with you as committee secretary and, for having already worked with her in the Committee on Justice, I would like to make it clear that she is an exceptional collaborator for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u31	Luckily it's not a proposal!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-04-55-commissie-ic249x.u32	No, Mr. President!
