ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u1	Colleagues, we are going to work as we have done before. The Minister will answer your questions about the coronavirus crisis. You will be able to refer to the text of your questions in order to save some time for the reply. If you immediately announce that you will opt for this option, I will then give you more time to reply. I would remind you that you have two minutes to ask a question and three minutes if you ask more than one question. Secondly, Mrs Muylle will answer all the questions. A PowerPoint is ready for this. First of all, I would point out a very small change, since the debate will open with an inquiry, since it must be dealt with separately. Then we'll chain on the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u2	Madam President, I would like to return to the work of the committee for today. It is a pity that we suddenly receive an agenda change two hours before the committee, in particular that there is an actua debate. That can and can be accepted if I know it the day before or on Friday. The agenda was already quite extensive in any case. I had seven questions on the agenda, but the reply time is very minimal. I also had a question pending, which unfortunately was not moved to the plenary and in which I had included a number of additional questions. I am certainly prepared to turn most of my questions into written questions. However, I hope that I will have one more minute to explain one question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u3	We will, of course, be flexible in replying, so that parliamentary work can proceed in an optimal manner. On the question of the debate, I can hear you well. It is true that it is not always easy for services to keep pace. Indeed, a lot of questions have been added over the past few days. That is why their arrangement changes from hour to hour. In short, if you have to ask several questions and instead of five minutes of reply, you use six or even seven, that seems possible. I'll just be watching the timing, because the minister will have to leave us around 5:00 p.m. for other obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u4	Minister, my inquiry is on a subject that we have already discussed here on several occasions. These are the free dismissals that we believe this government has made possible in the midst of the crisis of VOCID-19. In fact, the House took this problem into its own hands last week, a little too late, it seems. We're wondering. How is it possible that people were sent home by their company in the midst of the crisis of the VOCID-19, through temporary unemployment, to receive two or three days later their notification of dismissal by mail? It seemed to us that the objective of the temporary unemployment option was precisely to avoid redundancies. You said that yourself in your press release of 20 March. However, in some cases, this has allowed some employers to dismiss not only staff more easily, but also at a lower cost. I assume that a government should be able to consider the effects of such a measure. You know how the right of dismissal works in normal times. But I have the impression that you and some members of this government took this case a little lightly. In Belgium, the Law on Dismissals provides for a period of notice and corresponding compensation for notice. These two elements are an integral part of the working and concerted conditions that have been the result of struggles and discussions in our country. Any person who enters into an indeterminate employment contract knows that it is in this way that his or her contract may eventually be terminated. There is only one exception to this rule: the temporary unemployment scheme due to a case of force majeure. As you said in committee on May 15, this situation normally occurs only in exceptional circumstances, such as in the event of a fire or a storm. When you introduced the possibility of temporary unemployment due to the VOCID-19, you made this exception the rule. On May 15, you suggested that the government had not considered this possibility. On this issue of the exception that has become the rule - in our view, by this negligence - the government has in fact changed the right of dismissal in our country by introducing a choice that goes directly against the spirit of this existing right of dismissal. No one in your cabinet or government, apparently, would have noticed. We ask ourselves: how is this possible? In any case, for us it is a mistake that we propose to you to take care of and also to repair. Then, how was it that it took so long to correct this mistake? We can go back to a discussion here in Parliament about the need to retroactively suspend the notice period. Every day that the processing of this case has accelerated - or slowed down - has had political and social consequences. As a result of this slowdown, additional people were laid off. However, because of the consequences of this crisis of the VOCID-19, the long series of social and economic difficulties was already very visible. You left the initiative in Parliament, did you tell us on 15 May, and that is why you did not intervene. We have some doubts. Was it really a concern for democracy for Parliament or was it negligent, knowing that you could have done this task yourself much faster by means of a royal decree? You have received the special powers precisely in order to be able to deal quickly with urgent problems. The Law of Special Powers also allows intervention at the level of retroactivity until 1 March included. This is provided for in section 2 of this Act. Parliament could not do that, but you did. You yourself introduced temporary unemployment with retroactive effect on 30 March by a royal decree. Why then did you choose not to do anything? Can you explain how this was possible? Finally, I would like to talk to you about the many victims of this situation and the consequences of your non-decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u5	Mrs Moscufo, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u6	I'll try to make it short, Madam President. For the persons concerned, they must live on 70 per cent of their wages, whereas they should have had 100 per cent of their wages paid by their employer. There is protection here to make employers pay for the choice they make. So our questions are: Why did you delay so long in correcting this mistake? Do you have any idea how many people would be affected, how many companies would be affected? Do you intend to ask your services to assess the extent of this problem quickly? Will you quickly compensate these 100% workers, as they should have been? Are you considering granting an unemployment benefit to all those who, as a result of this dismissal, have not been able to obtain the number of working days needed to obtain their rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u7	Madam Minister, I would like to refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u8	Mrs Moscufo, would you like to ask your questions or, like Mrs Vanrobaeys, postpone this time for your replies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u9	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u10	Mr. From Vuyst being absent, his questions are irrelevant. Mr Bihet referred to the written text of his questions as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u11	Madam Minister, we are moving towards a return of all the workers to their company, the economic engine of Belgium is leaving. It seems to me essential to recall here that this engine drives our society and remains at the heart of our social system. Liberals are used to repeating this, we do not build a social paradise on an economic desert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u12	There are a lot of commissions at the same time, it's obviously very complicated. Mrs Fonck, do you also refer to the written text of your questions? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u13	Madam Minister, I know you are attentive to the situation of artists, which is particularly complicated at the moment, following the crisis of Covid 19. You announced in early May the extension of temporary unemployment to the arts and events sector for the period from 1 May to 31 August 2020, for contracts scheduled since before 15 April 2020. This is an important and necessary step.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u14	Madam Minister, you answered a number of questions in plenary last week about the impact of the measures on temporary unemployment in corona time on the calculation of the holiday allowance and the end of the year premium. What's the status? Has the matter been discussed again in the Cabinet over the last few days? If so, what was the result? For the rest, I refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u15	Since Mr Patrick Prévot was absent, his questions had lapsed. Since Mr. Friart was also absent, his questions were not relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u16	Madam Minister, you have announced in the press your intention to allow an extension of temporary unemployment until September 1, 2020. Was there an agreement within the government and when will the royal decree be available? Will this concern the whole of the sectors? Will the current relaxed conditions for access to special temporary unemployment covid-19 be maintained? It is authorised for temporary unemployed persons and for selfemployed persons benefiting from the bridge right to take up seasonal employment without income ceiling until 30 June 2020. Minister Ducrame announced that he would also like to allow it for scholarship students and RIS recipients. Why not allow it for the conventional unemployed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u17	Madam President, I would also like to refer to my written question. 60 questions have been put. It wouldn't be good if we all had to say it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u18	I haven't heard from Mr. Vanden Burre yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u19	Can you explain what modalities/conditions are attached to this and indicate to what extent they differ from the modalities/conditions that apply until the end of June 2020? Are there any sectors excluded from this extension? If so, which sectors are these and what is the reason for exclusion? If not, what is the reason why all sectors are treated in the same way? However, it now appears that the rapid introduction and low threshold, the measure of temporary unemployment corona is also much more prone to fraud than the normal system of temporary unemployment. The number of on-the-spot checks remains below 461, the number of on-the-spot checks opened is just over 1,692. That, while 1.26 million workers in 140,000 different workers have already taken advantage of this form of temporary unemployment. On the basis of which indicators will an investigation be initiated? In how many cases was an investigation initiated in respect of: A complaint? On the basis of which indicators will be used to carry out an on-the-spot check? How is it that only 461 checks have been carried out on the ground so far? What kind of research has been carried out in the fight against and detection of abuse of temporary unemployment corona? What are the first conclusions that can be drawn from the first research actions that have now been made? How do the modalities and conditions attached to temporary unemployment influence corona, the control of abuse? On 15 May, you answered a question that I asked here that at that time at least 2,485 temporary unemployment benefits were paid in duplicate to Corona, as a result of multiple applications from different payout institutions at the same time. In your reply, you indicated that some of these double requests were 'internal' and that there are therefore some instances of bad faith. How many temporary unemployment Corona benefits were paid twice today? How many double payouts have been recovered? What amount are we talking about here? How does the recovery of double payouts go? Who is responsible for the recovery and how is it determined? In how many cases was an address given by the applicant abroad? In how many cases is there bad faith and therefore abuse? How do you want to adjust the modalities of the payout so that double payouts are no longer possible? In addition to your announcement to extend temporary unemployment corona until the end of August, you also announced that you would like to extend temporary unemployment corona for certain sectors until the end of 2020. For which sectors do you want to implement this extension until the end of 2020? On what criteria were these sectors selected? How many employees are eligible for this extension? What modalities/conditions are linked to temporary unemployment corona during the period 1 September 2020 - 31 December 2020? 5. What budgetary impact do you expect from this extension? The super core would have agreed on the transition from temporary unemployment corona to the normal system of temporary unemployment for economic reasons. For this, a corona unemployment would be created. This is the transition from temporary unemployment by corona-force......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... to classical economic unemployment. This transitional arrangement is possible if the company shows a 10 percent decrease in turnover. Can you explain in detail the conditions and modalities of this transitional system? How long will this transitional system be able to be used? What period will this transitional system be able to be used? Which employers will be able to use this system? What is the expected budgetary impact of this measure? Degressivity of unemployment benefits was frozen for three months from 1 April to 30 June. This means that the various reductions in unemployment benefits are suspended by three months. Will the suspension of degressivity be extended after 30 June? If so, how long will it be extended for and on what indicators was it decided on?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u20	Mr Bertels is not present. Question No 55007109C is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u21	Madam President, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that it was asked that Mr. De Vuyst are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u22	Madam, this is not possible because it is part of a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u23	Madam Minister, I refer to my written questions, but I would like to point out that some of the questions that were still on the agenda this morning seem to have disappeared from the recast. In particular, I have three questions on other subjects. They may have been answered in writing, but at least they were still on the agenda this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u24	Mrs Willaert, the questions to which you refer are also not included in the 20 questions scheduled after the topical and urgent debate on the agenda? We'll check it out. Don't you have the numbers of the missing questions? That would be great.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u25	Madam President, I sent them to you by WhatsApp, with the titles. I don't think I have to repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u26	I'll take a look. We'll make a comparison.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u27	Madam President, I have just contacted Mr Friart, who is in committee at the same time. I will try to bring him in so that he will officially refer to the text of his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u28	Can we consider that those who are blocked do not necessarily have to find an ingenious system to be able to connect, and that if they come back at the time of the reply, the questions will be considered? If they reply, we will consider that the questions have been asked. If they don't come back, we'll consider them moot. Is this suitable for everyone? Minister, is that okay with you, too? I see everyone's agreement. That will be the case. Question No 55007072C by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, like last time, prepared a PowerPoint presentation to answer all the questions concerning the measures and the figures. Then there will be a number of questions separate from COOVID-19, which I will answer separately. The slides Nos. 1 to 5 deal with five topics: temporary unemployment, other measures on unemployment, temporary unemployment 2.0, seeking work during the corona crisis and expenditure on temporary unemployment. Slide No. 1 deals with temporary unemployment in the sectors most affected by COOVID-19. So on slide 1 you will see the most affected sectors for which the extended possibilities of temporary unemployment due to force majeure by the coronavirus will continue to apply until 31 December 2020. The sectors that will be able to make use of them will be evaluated next month. One of the criteria will be the number of workers in the sector who are still temporarily unemployed at that time. It is important that, in the context of economic revival, we can continue to grant aid to sectors which are extremely difficult, such as the catering industry or the event and travel sector. I cannot yet answer the question as to whether specific sectors such as textiles, textiles or motor vehicles will be covered. However, I recognise that these sectors are currently very badly affected. Moreover, for the car sector, I must refer to the regions for any sectoral aid measures. After all, it is not a federal matter. About the checks you will see a table with a number of figures. These relate to the number of files submitted so far for temporary unemployed and employers. The payout institutions are still subject to declarations for the last few months. You can see the figures for March, April and May. The number of employees goes from 1.032.000 in March to 1.230.000 in April and 973.000 in May. In March the average was 7.8 days, in April at 14 days and in May at 9.8 days. The number of employers involved goes from 130,000 in March to 139 000 in April and 119,000 in May. The table also shows the amounts paid out by the various payment boxes for the month of March. This amounts to EUR 418 million, paid for the month of March between 1 April and 10 June. Soon I will again show by figures that we also received the first applications from employers for the month of March at the beginning of June. The table shows the number of persons paid and the net amount for the month of March. That amount's barely fluctuating. The RVA checks each of these dossiers as closely as possible to the extent possible abuses of measures relating to temporary unemployment by corona. I keep repeating it: for each of the more than 1.3 million different files of temporary unemployed and 139 000 files of employers, the data mining cell of the RVA is intersecting data in order to achieve targeted selections of potential fraud files. These cross-breeds are carried out with both internal and external databases and are made up of different types of fraud risks. Some examples of cross-compliance are: applying for retroactive temporary unemployment; companies already receiving a PV around Dimona; temporary unemployment of workers in key sectors; applications for only one day; temporary unemployment due to corona for the employee during the full period of temporary unemployment; recruitment during periods of temporary unemployment, or continuing activities during temporary unemployment. In the meantime, these selections have led to more than 3,000 files opening investigations into fraud involving corona benefits. The RVA starts each time from an extensive administrative investigation, with additional different databases being searched and contacted by email, telephone or letter with the employer and/or the social insurance provider. The aim is to identify possible abuses and make a decision in the file. This may lead to an area survey, but this is not always necessary. In many cases, the administrative investigation is sufficient to establish the infringement. Given the difficult socio-economic situation of enterprises, informing and supporting them as much as possible has been a priority since the beginning of the pandemic, as well as paying workers entering the temporary unemployment system as soon as possible. There was a need for social inspectors to help answer telephone and written questions about temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus crisis and for them to be temporarily deployed within the organization to assist in other tasks. Since mid-April, auditors have resumed field audits. The figure of 461 site surveys was a state of affairs during the last week of May. In the meantime, 808 inspections have already been carried out on the ground. In the coming weeks, the RVA will continue to focus on ex post controls which will examine as many companies and temporary unemployed as possible. In addition to the data cross-checks, the RVA also starts investigations on complaints. All complaints coming in will be handled and investigated administratively. If the preliminary investigation shows signs of abuse and it appears necessary, a site investigation will be carried out. What about checking for double payments? A correct and complete overview of the number of double payments will be available at the RVA only after verification of the payments of the payout institutions has been made. In principle, the possibility of double payments for the months of March and April should be taken into account. The verification of payments up to the month of April should be completed by 30 September 2020 in accordance with the statutory deadline. On the basis of a preliminary analysis, the RVA assumes that a double payment may have been made for 0.3 % to 0.4 % of the total number of employees concerned. This occurs with each of the four payout settings. They are themselves responsible for recovering amounts unduly paid from the persons concerned. The payment bodies have informed the workers that the allowances unduly paid will be deducted from future payments and returned to the non-competent payment body which has paid twice. These deductions have already been made since the April 2020 payments. Payments made by the non-competent payment body will not be accepted by the ONEM when the expenditure is verified. Payment agencies are responsible for the mutual settlement of recoveries. A posteriori, the inspection accounts of the RVA will check this financial settlement in the accounts of the payout institutions. No data are available on the number of applicants giving up an address abroad. Double payments are usually uncommon. I dare say that double payments are now due to the flexible measures we have provided for, so that the temporary unemployed will receive his benefit in good time. Now I come to the second slide. This slide contains other measures in the context of temporary unemployment. I should like to say a few words about this. 6558 by Mrs Leroy, in order to allow the total unemployed to work as seasonal workers under the same conditions as the temporary unemployed, state that the measures taken by the government were intended solely to respond to the sudden increase in temporary unemployment. Adjustments or reforms to the full unemployment system relating to seasonal work were not included. In the super core, there is an agreement to extend from 30 June to 31 August 2020 all measures taken in the context of the corona crisis in the field of unemployment and temporary unemployment by corona-force for all sectors. This applies both to access to the system and to the percentage of 70% for benefits and to the additional EUR 5.63 per day in case of temporary unemployment due to force majeure. This Royal Decree also extends the possibility of overlapping with pension and secondary activity until 31 August. Reference and benefit periods which have been neutralized or extended until 30 June shall also be extended by this decision. For the most affected sectors, a number of specific measures are being extended until 31 December, as I indicated at the beginning. These include the adjusted eligibility conditions, the simplified application for the temporary unemployment scheme by force majeure corona, the 70% benefit and the EUR 5.63 per day, the provision of the springboard to self-employed persons and also the cumulation of pensions and secondary activity with temporary unemployment benefits. The suspension of degressivity will run until 31 August 2020. The Royal Decree shall also be submitted to the Council of State after agreement of the Budget. Other measures shall be extended by proxy decision until 31 August 2020. It concerns the possibility to temporarily resume work with 75% of benefits for persons in career breaks, time credits, on thematic leave or SWT until 31 August 2020, as well as corona parental leave until 30 September 2020. I'll be right back on that last opportunity. The measures extended by the Government until 31 August 2020 ensure that redundancies can be avoided. Another royal decree whose principles were approved in Kern+9 on Friday, June 12, is currently in the hands of the Minister of Budget. It regulates the period from 1 September to 31 December 2020 and sets the amount of temporary unemployment benefits at 70%. The EUR 5.63 is no longer the responsibility of the ONEM but of the employer. This royal decree must be considered in conjunction with the decree of special powers which regulates the transition from the exceptional situation of temporary unemployment due to force majeure to the ordinary system of temporary unemployment for economic reasons. I'll come back later. No measures are currently being taken with regard to unemployment for the period after 31 December 2020. In addition to the extension of the existing measures, additional measures are foreseen to avoid redundancies. Provision is made for a reduction in working time, either by collective reduction of working time or by means of time credits or by means of time credits, end-of-life or runways for which access will be reduced by a payment of 57 years to 55 years. The measures of collective reduction of working time, time credit and runways under corona may be applied to undertakings recognised as undertakings in restructuring or in difficulty before 1 January 2021. They can be applied for the duration of the recognition. The recognition referred to here as an undertaking in restructuring refers to and is carried out in the same way as recognition under the unemployment scheme with a single payment. In general, the measures are very similar to those taken in the Brexit framework. This required ministerial recognition and social consultation. If I am in favour of this being approved here in committee as part of the Brexit measures. Slide 3 is about temporary unemployment 2.0, so the transition period. In order not to break the transition between the exceptional situation of force majeure due to the crisis of the coronavirus and the ordinary regime of temporary unemployment for economic reasons, an intermediate phase has been introduced. This allows us to take into account the specific situation in which the employer no longer fulfils the conditions of force majeure. Access to the ordinary system of economic unemployment will be temporarily relaxed for these employers until 31 December 2020. For the workers it will be possible to suspend fully the performance of the contract of employment for up to eight weeks instead of four. A partial suspension may take up to 18 weeks instead of three months. The other rules of economic unemployment remain unchanged. For servants, employers will not have to meet the preliminary conditions. However, the employer must demonstrate that there is a substantial decrease of at least 10% in turnover or production compared to the same quarter in 2019. The maximum number of weeks of economic unemployment is increased by eight weeks, with both full and partial suspension. The employer will have to offer his employee two training days per month in temporary unemployment. This can be about all possible formations, both internally and externally. Slide 4, look for work during corona. I am aware of the fact that it is very difficult for the unemployed to find a job during this period, hence the changes in the unemployment regulations that have been confirmed in the supercore each time. For example, the degressivity of unemployment benefits has been temporarily frozen, the reference periods for artists and the periods for springboard and reception benefits have been extended. It seems that in our country temporary unemployment has still played its part and has taken the immediate blow for workers to a large extent. Major impacts on the balance between private sector entry and exit, as shown by the RZV figures, remain so far. The difference between entry and exit into the labour market remained positive up to and including the week from 19 to 25 March. In the week from 26 March to 1 April, 7,184 jobs were lost in the private sector compared to the previous week, mainly under the influence of the end of the month in this week, in which temporary contracts expired and were extended or not. Also in the next five weeks, roughly the month of April, a slightly negative balance was recorded and 4,194 jobs lost. For the month of May, the balance is still positive. In three weeks, employment increased by 11,832 jobs. An HR company has calculated that the introduction of temporary unemployment caused a decrease in contract termination. In March, there were 12.5 % fewer terminations of contracts than 12 months before. In April there were 15.6 % less than in April 2019. The European Commission estimates a relatively limited increase in the Belgian unemployment rate in its latest forecasts, from 5.4 % in 2019 to 6.5 % in 2021. Of course, we will have to be very vigilant about the expected job losses in the coming weeks. So far, we have not seen significant waves of redundancies, with the exception of those announced at Brussels Airlines and Swissport. Over the past five years, almost all labour market indicators in our country have seen positive developments. Youth unemployment is no exception. The unemployment rate for the 15-24 year-olds decreased each year between 2015 and 2019, from 22.1% in 2015 to 14.2% in 2019. The decline was even more pronounced among women than among men. As far as working time is concerned, we do not yet have figures by age class, but Statbel of the FPS Economy already has data on the total number of workers in March. As expected, the working time decreased from the start of the corona crisis. In March 2020, workers performed an average of 32.8 hours in a full-time job and 19.4 hours in a part-time job, which they regard as their main job. This average is lower than in February, when on average 37.3 hours were worked in a full-time job and 21.6 hours in a part-time job. For young people working in precarious statutes, we must ensure that they can move on to a better job. Young people who lose their jobs must be escorted to work as soon as possible. However, it is the regions, and not the federal government, that are responsible for employment. As regards expenditure on temporary unemployment, on 16 June 2020, declarations for temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus were submitted in May 2020 for 973,102 persons. The average duration of temporary unemployment for those persons in May was 9.8 days. Expenditure on temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus amounted to 579 million for March and 1.000.071 000 euros for April. Fast readers may have noticed a deviation with the figures from the beginning of my exhibition. Those figures were until June 10th, these figures until June 16th. This is also about net figures and not about gross figures, as in the beginning, when I talked about 418 million. The additional costs resulting from the extension for the sectors most affected until the end of this year of the measures relating to the 70% and the charge of the premium of EUR 5.63 million have been estimated at 45.2 million. Mrs Samyn and Mr Bihet had a question about corona parents' leave, which we decided on, and that amounts to an additional balance of parental leave for May and June for parents and foster parents with at least one child under 12 years of age or a child with disabilities of any age, in the admission arrangements half or one fifth and with an increased benefit of 25%. It is too early to give definitive recording figures, as the application period at the RVA is two months. For the previous period, until 14 June 2020, 57.575 applications were submitted to the RVA. For the period from 1 May to 30 June, a budget of EUR 48.5 million has been estimated for expenditure on parental leave for coronavirus. The difference in benefits between the private and public sectors for workers living alone with their dependent child is derived from the scales already applicable to regular parental leave. In concrete terms, the increase in allowances for private sector workers is the result of an interprofessional agreement reached within the National Labour Council. This agreement is not applicable to the public sector. In the event of an interruption of one fifth in the public sector, single workers with dependent children may also benefit from an increase in the benefit. A draft special power decision now also provides for an extension of the measure for all until 30 September. In addition, from 1 July to 30 September, parents of children with disabilities and single parents will be given even more favourable treatment. For them, the benefit will be increased by 50% instead of 25%. Provision is made for those two groups to take full-time corona parents' leave. However, the draft decision contains a provision that gross income when taking coronaparent leave can never exceed the gross income that the person concerned enjoyed when he or she was at work, in other words for taking coronaparent leave. The definition of disability was aligned with the current definition of time credit, parental leave and adoption leave as adapted on the basis of advice 2072 of the National Labour Council, with the difference that we have also here provided a possibility for parents of children with disabilities over 21 years of age. On slide no. You will find explanations on the crisis measures in response to the questions put by Mrs Vindevoghel, Mrs Thémont, Mr Prévot, Mr Friart and Mrs Vanrobaeys. In particular, with regard to our national airport, we can report that negotiations are still ongoing on a form of state aid to the sector, in particular to Brussels Airlines. The federal government's objectives are both profitable operating flights and maximum employment anchored in Zaventem. Meanwhile, Brussels Airlines has announced a major restructuring and the bankruptcy of Swissport. In the first case, the information and consultation procedure was launched, in accordance with the rules of the Renault Act. The ongoing social dialogue at company level deserves every opportunity until further notice. From my administration, the chairman of the Joint Committee, who is also a social mediator for the company, closely follows the business. We also had talks from the government with the trade unions and the management. Moreover, some of the questions on the file relate to the powers of colleagues De Croo and Bellot. In the case of temporary unemployment due to force majeure, the social partners and the joint committee, sub-committee 315/02 of the airlines, also concluded an additional collective agreement providing for and specific arrangements for an additional wage supplement to be borne by the employer. The bankruptcy of Swissport Belgium and Swissport Belgium Cleaning came unexpectedly for everyone, also for the trade unions. The company referred to the global collapse of the market as a result of the coronapandemic, which finally crossed through the implementation of the recovery measures that were developed before the crisis. The liquidators immediately discontinued all the activities of the two undertakings concerned. There is no immediate view of a buyer and there are insufficient resources to ensure continuity. For answers to questions on this subject, I would point out that the competence for groundhandling at Zaventem airport lies with Minister Bellot. There was also a question about possible restructuring in the travel sector, in particular of TUI, where 8,000 jobs are threatened in international context. In any case, my administration has not received any announcement or notification for the Belgian branch, although it is true that the travel sector and all related companies are suffering from the corona crisis. Within the scope of my competence as Minister of Economy, I have taken measures based on the liquidity of the affected travel companies, including through the travel cheque. Measures such as the flexible system of temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure must give the sector - as well as others - a means of redress before making the dismissal. This regime results in a drastic temporary reduction in staff costs and limits the loss of purchasing power for the workers concerned. Finally, on the questions relating to Ryanair, we can inform you of the following. In the past, my predecessor has made it clear to Ryanair on several occasions and unequivocally that the company must respect a level playing field between aviation competitors, including the Belgian rules on labour law. Both direct démarches by the Minister of Work and the mediation and control of my administration have achieved results: respect for the right to strike, the installation of a Belgian trade union delegation for workers operating on Belgian territory and an effective transition to Belgian applicable labour law through effectively closed corporate caos to Belgian law on 15 November 2018. If it appears that the rules and procedures applicable in Belgium – such as those relating to the compulsory procedure for information and consultation in the event of collective redundancies – or the sectoral collective agreements made compulsory have not been complied with, my labour inspectorate will continue to take the necessary steps. In the meantime, workers' representatives are free to request a conciliation procedure through a representative workers' organisation within the competent joint committee, i.e. the guild, as they have done in the past, but not yet for this corona-Ryanair conflict. The measures on flexibility of work and the extension of night work and overtime proposed by Voka aimed at increasing the flexibility of work were not agreed within the government as part of the corporate support measures taken by the corona crisis. However, companies can make use of the possibilities offered by current legislation. There are also the necessary derogations in the field of night work, subject to social consultation. In the field of overtime, in addition to the temporary increase in critical sectors, companies can still use the existing quota of 120 voluntary overtime as well as other existing derogations. There was also a question about the remuneration of teleworkers. The decision of the super core last Friday to be able to easily reimburse the costs of up to EUR 127 per month concerns, in the first instance, elements that belong to the powers of Mr De Croo and Mrs De Block. The question of a revision of collective agreement 85 on teleworking was not on the agenda of the National Labour Council for the time being. This week, together with the social partners, the recent decision of the super-core will be discussed further and it will therefore be examined whether a possible adjustment of collective agreement 85 is necessary. Slide 8 is about the artists. I have consulted a great deal with the artists and events sector to develop measures for this particular target group that has also been hard hit by corona. The government has decided on various measures for the unemployed with the artist's status. The first measure decided by the Government is the extension of the 18-month reference period from 1 April to 31 August to obtain the continuation of the compensation by 60% from the 13th month. For persons whose 60 per cent benefit was due by April 1, this benefit was extended until August 31, 2020. The second measure is the extension of the 12-month period, from April 1 to the end of August, to prove the three artistic benefits in order to obtain an extension of the 60% retention of the compensation. For artists and all other workers in the event sector, it was decided to freeze the degressivity from 1 April to the end of August and to extend the 36-month credit for insertion allowances by five months. The employed artist is entitled to temporary unemployment in cases of force majeure if he signed a contract of employment before 13 March which could not take effect because of the decisions of the National Security Council. For the events cancelled from March 14 to the end of August, the artist is entitled to temporary unemployment for cases of force majeure for the formal and nominative promises of the employment contract that can be proved in a writing prior to the event and on April 15. On 13 May, the National Employment Office (ONEM) issued directives to its local bodies on the implementation of decisions on the opening of temporary unemployment to workers affected by the cancellation of events following the decisions of the National Security Council. The worker must apply for temporary unemployment on form C3.2 "Worker-Corona-events" and attach proof of the promise of the employment contract. A request for temporary unemployment shall also include a statement from the employer. All elements of the application shall be reviewed by the relevant NSO officers. In the event of a refusal by the ONEM, the unemployed person has the opportunity to ask the director of the unemployment office to obtain a review of the decision on the basis of a new fact. As regards temporary unemployment for workers affected by the cancellation of cultural and other events, the restrictions I expressed at the Social Affairs Committee on 8 May with regard to intermediate workers, who are exclusively occupied under daily contracts which would not have been signed before 13 March, are not applicable to them. In the event of a refusal by the RVA, the unemployed person may request a review of the decision from the director of the unemployment office on the basis of a new fact. The percentage of artists applying for temporary unemployment due to coronavirus is 6.7% in March and 7.3% in April, compared to the total number of artists reporting artistic activity and receiving an allowance in January and/or February 2020. Of these, 2.9 per cent in March and 5.2 per cent in April of all artists did not receive a temporary unemployment payment; 2.8 per cent in March and 5.4 per cent in April did not receive full unemployment benefits. Finally, 0.5 per cent in March and 3.6 per cent in April received neither temporary nor full unemployment. The percentage of people applying for temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus crisis was 8.8% in March and 9.3% in April compared to the total number of non-artists in January and February 2020. Among them, 6.3% in March in 7.7% in April of the total non-artists in January and February did not receive the payment of temporary unemployment. Similarly, 3.7% of these persons in March and 6.6% in April did not receive full unemployment benefit. Finally, 2% of non-artists in March and 5.1% in April did not receive temporary unemployment or full unemployment. I have transmitted to the chairman and the secretary of the committee a table showing the figures per month, with a view to its publication on the extranet. These are the figures for the reference months, the last month of introduction available being April. These different percentages show that the proportion of artists who did not receive an allowance for the months of March and April is lower than that of non-artists who did not receive an allowance. Artists have the opportunity to apply for full and/or temporary unemployment for the months of March and April, depending on their specific eligibility situation. Some artists have therefore applied for full unemployment and have received a payment in this context. Unemployment benefits are not paid automatically: full unemployed persons must apply each month to receive unemployment benefits. These requests are made by the introduction, at the end of each month, of a control card with their payment agency, in accordance with Articles 71 and 160 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment. On the basis of the information given on the above-mentioned control card, the payment body shall calculate and pay the allowances for the previous month. In the absence of a control card (e.g. when it is intended to apply for temporary unemployment for the month in question), full unemployment benefits are not paid. The unemployed person has three years to introduce his control cards. I suspect that in the case of evaluation, there is a real chance that the artistic sector and the event sector will be recognised as heavily affected sectors. The measures already planned will therefore apply to them. Within the super-core, it has also been agreed that the government will not take any additional measures. If necessary, and it has already been done, the initiatives in this area will also be left to Parliament. I will also examine, together with the competent administrations, whether the flexible interpretation of temporary unemployment gives rise to a right to annual leave. Mrs Chanson, with regard to your question about artists' pensions, I would like to refer to the relevant ministers, in accordance with the artist's statute during his or her career. Slide number 9. As regards the effects of annual leave on employment, Belgian legislation on annual leave is based on a European directive which provides that every worker must be entitled to a paid holiday of at least four weeks per year. The directive does not allow these days to be transferred to another year. This would also affect the rights of workers if they were limited in their right to holiday before this summer, even more so now that we have been on holiday for a few weeks. On 5 June 2020, the Royal Decree was published in the Belgian Official Journal that the days of temporary unemployment due to force majeure caused by the coronavirus, for workers who have received recognition of temporary unemployment due to force majeure, were treated as effective working days for the calculation of the duration of the holiday and the amount of the holiday allowance in 2021. Temporary unemployment due to force majeure is in principle not taken into account for the equivalence of annual leave. Without these exceptional measures, the holiday allowance of 2021 for the employees concerned would be significantly negatively affected. The current equivalence shall apply for the period from 1 February to 30 June 2020. The draft Royal Decree extending the equivalence until 31 August is currently before the National Labour Council for urgent advice. As far as end-of-year and other annual premiums are concerned, they are not regulated by law, but are usually awarded by a collective agreement at sector level. Any changes to the implementing rules can thus also be determined at sectoral level. There is no provision for legislation to deal with this at intersectoral level. A number of sectors already provided for the equivalence of periods of temporary unemployment before corona for the payment of the end-of-year premium. In addition, there are currently four joint committees which have concluded a specific collective agreement following corona and which equate periods of temporary unemployment resulting from the coronavirus with periods worked. Since 2016, the industry has been granting this annual premium in CP 200 through an autonomously negotiated collective agreement. This year, the indexed premium is €265.12 for a full-time employee. The amount shall be calculated taking into account actual and similar days during the reference period. This period runs from 1 June 2019 until 31 May 2020. The bonus is paid with the June salary. Days of temporary unemployment are not treated as days actually worked. This amount can also be converted into an equivalent benefit within the company. Since the last round of negotiations, it can also be used for possible sectoral harmonisation of the supplementary pension. The social partners have recently discussed the impact of the coronavirus pandemic in the Joint Committee. However, these discussions have not led to the result of equivalences in the calculation of the premium mentioned. Of course, agreements on this can always be concluded at company level. Finally, on the basis of the figures provided by the social secretariats, we can point out that in the last week of May less than 5% of the possible working days in this sector were converted into temporary unemployment. In the last week of March, the figure was 20%. Article 39 of the Labour Act of 16 March 1971 provides that, when the worker has continued to work for the six weeks preceding the birth or eight weeks in the case of multiple births, she may, after the ninth week of compulsory rest, extend her maternity leave by five weeks or seven weeks in the case of multiple births. These five or seven weeks are optional and can be chosen by the worker, either before birth or after compulsory postnatal rest. Only those periods during which the worker has actually worked during the period in question, six or eight weeks respectively, may be carried over. However, it is possible to assimilate certain periods to these periods of work by royal decree. The Royal Decree of 11 October 1991 lists, in a limited way, these periods. The Act amending periods during prenatal rest and which may be taken into account for the extension of postnatal rest which was passed in Parliament on 4 June 2020, supplements this list of the Royal Decree of 11 October 1991 with periods of temporary unemployment for force majeure, economic unemployment of employees, incapacity for work and complete separation from work. This law will be published tomorrow, June 18, 2020, at the Moniteur belge. This Act is retroactive to March 1, 2020. There are no transitional provisions, which means that these amendments apply not only to future maternity leave but also to current maternity leave. The absence of a transitional provision also means that the date of 1 March 2020 must simply be used as the pivotal date for periods of absence which can now be treated as work. Very concretely, only absences from this date of 1 March 2020 can be counted for the extension of postnatal rest. Even a worker whose maternity leave has already begun may, therefore, appeal to the new equivalent periods to extend her current maternity leave if she so wishes. To do so, she will have to make her employer aware of her intentions as soon as possible. At the same time, she will also have to inform her mutuals directly in order to obtain maternity benefits. On the other hand, it is important to note that maternity leave should in principle be taken with one holding. This means that if, in the meantime, the worker has already resumed work, she will no longer be able to extend her maternity leave at a later date, unless, however, she is in a position to convert part of her current maternity leave into postnatal leave. As soon as the law was passed, my administration used the means of communication at its disposal to inform workers and their employers as much as possible about their rights and obligations. Various channels such as social networks and the Employment FPS contact centre have been used to avoid confusion and to inform women workers in the best possible way. My administration has already published a message on its website last week, clarifying some of the labour law impacts of these regulatory changes on current maternity leave. On the other hand, the way in which mutuals prepare for this retroactive effect is not a matter for me, but for my colleague De Block. I come to the suspension of the notice period. Mrs Moscufo, I can inform you that, subject to compliance with the relevant rules, both the worker and the employer may terminate the employment contract during the suspension of the performance of work on the grounds of temporary force majeure. However, there was no legal provision for the suspension of the notice period in the event of termination by the employer of the employment contract of a worker whose performance was suspended on that ground, which was very exceptional in the past. However, the emergence of the coronavirus crisis and the measures taken by the government to limit the spread of VOCID-19 have led to a massive use of suspension due to temporary force majeure. In view of the negative consequences this could have for the worker, I therefore instructed my administration in April to prepare a measure providing that in the event of notice given by the employer before or during the suspension on the grounds of temporary force majeure, the notice period would cease to run during the suspension, as it does in the case of suspension for lack of work for economic reasons. This measure was included in a draft Special Authority Order at the end of April. We found, however, that Parliament had taken the initiative to address this issue in a bill that then resumed this measure. That is, of course, Parliament's right. As a result, we removed this measure from our proposed special powers order and left it to Parliament for consideration. As you know, this bill was discussed in this committee on 5 May at first reading and 13 May at second reading. The proposal was amended, inter alia, to give it retroactive effect. An opinion of the Council of State was then requested in plenary meeting on 28 May. Following receipt of this opinion, the bill was further amended and approved in plenary on 11 June. Therefore, if the adoption of this measure has been delayed, it is difficult for you to assign me responsibility as a minister. In fact, this morning I received confirmation that publication in the Belgian Monitor is scheduled for Monday, 22 June. Slide 10 is about "safe at work." Questions were raised by Mr Bihet and Mrs Schlitz. Article 2.26 of the Codex on well-being at work provides that an employee must not be affected by the fact that, in the event of an inescapable, serious and imminent danger, he has left his employment post or dangerous zone. It must be a serious and immediate danger which cannot be avoided. This means that the health or safety of the worker is almost certainly at risk if he remains at his workplace and that he can only get to safety by leaving the workplace immediately. A classic example is a threatening explosion. In this case, the employee must also inform his supervisor and prevention adviser as soon as possible. The right to leave the workplace may be considered in the context of the corona crisis in exceptional situations where the employee is at a workplace with increased exposure to the coronavirus, for example in a hospital or laboratory where corona tests are being examined. Moreover, it only applies if, contrary to the rules, the employer has not taken any or insufficient preventive measures. While there is a risk for all other workers to be exposed to the virus at work, the risk of infection is limited if the employer, in consultation with his employees, has taken the necessary preventive measures to prevent the spread of the virus. To help the employer, the Generic Guide was made available on the website of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation in order to combat the spread of COVID-19 on the workplace. However, if the employee does not feel safe and considers that his employer has not taken sufficient measures to prevent the spread, it is appropriate that he contacts his supervisor, his employer and his prevention advisor and then complains to the Department of Welfare Monitoring at Work (TWW). Mouth masks can be an important complement to the other prevention measures defined in the Generic Guide. This also applies to the fabrics mouth masks that are handmade by volunteers throughout the country. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank those volunteers once again for all their work. This has not only enabled many people to work in safe conditions, but also to shop safely and use public transport. There were questions about the inspections from Mrs Moscufo and Mrs Vanrobaeys. First of all, I would like to correct your assertion that the sanctions that the labour welfare inspection service could impose have been removed. The intervention of this inspection service has always been based on the competences assigned to it by the Social Penal Code, such as warnings with possible imposition of a time limit, the order of measures which may involve the cessation of activities in the event of imminent danger, the writing of minutes to the attention of the labour auditor who can then initiate proceedings before the correctional court, propose the termination of the public action or hand over the file to the administrative fines service of the Employment, Labour and Social Concertation SPF. The TWW Inspection uses the same proactive approach as the monitoring of the basic regulation, which is based on prevention, for example through a sectoral approach. This approach is useful during the current crisis, as demonstrated by the sectoral guides developed by the Joint Committees in the context of business re-launching. In its inspections, the Inspectorate also looks at a number of points concerning prevention against the spread of corona. If it finds serious shortcomings, it shall inform the colleagues of the Inspection TWW. The controls have been stepped up since 4 May 2020 with the re-launch of many companies. From 4 to 29 May 2020 1,514 companies were controlled. Of the number of checks by sector, size and province, I can provide you with a table. It is difficult to provide such information in an answer to an oral question. I understand, however, that the table has also been delivered to the secretariat. Specifically in the case of household help, employed by service cheque firms, the Work Inspectorate received a total of 16 complaints since the start of the lockdown. All complaints were investigated. Five complaints were found to be well founded; seven were found to be partially well founded and four unfounded. For a number of files, the investigation is still ongoing. In three cases, corrective advice was provided on the basis of a checklist. A written warning was also given in three cases. In one case, coercive measures had to be imposed in accordance with the provisions of the Social Code. Slide 11 is about the payoff greenhouses. Slide 11 deals with questions from Ms.Dedonder and Ms.Leroy about the payment agencies on which I have already given some figures. I would like to point out that a minimum number of elements are required before a payment agency can proceed with the payment of an allowance. There must be a legal basis or at least a directive from the competent minister. This is especially important now in view of the new consecutive regulations. The temporary unemployed person must himself have applied with his personal data (national number, account number). The employer must indicate each month how many of its different workers were actually unemployed. It is true that initially there was a delay in the payments of temporary unemployment benefits. In many cases, they were employers and workers who, faced for the first time with the phenomenon of temporary unemployment, did not yet know very well how to proceed. Today there are still temporary unemployment returns which have been delayed for more than one month at the payout institution. On 5 June, the auxiliary cash received 690 employer returns for the month of April and on the same day, 1,330 temporary unemployed applied for the month of March, which is two months later. Normally, the emergency cash covers 5,000 cases of temporary unemployment per month, but now the number is about sixty times higher. In order to capture this, two tracks were followed. First, invest in automation. Thanks to automation, about 80% of files can now be paid automatically, which represents a 25-day gain per man. 95% of properly encoded files online were paid within three days. The files properly submitted on paper were paid within five days. Second, invest in staff. The own collaborators were mobilized and often worked 7 days a week. Through the Special Federal Forces, CAPAC received support from approximately 150 administrative staff. Since they are not experts, they can only take on basic tasks. Currently, 40 contract employees, under the first job agreement, are being recruited in order to anticipate the employees' vacation period. CAPAC examines what services job students may be deployed to, for example, file scanning. In addition, SELOR is conducting a recruitment selection for CAPAC. My cabinet monitors the completion of the files every week. If there is still a delay at the moment, it is often because there is an individual problem or because it is not complete, as explained in detail at the committee meeting on 15 May. The law allowing the accumulation of benefits between temporary unemployment and pension for over 65 people was published in the Belgian Official Journal on Friday 12 June. The payout institutions will, of course, also apply the law. Then I get to slide no. 12. I have brought together all the different measures in a time-bound overview since the beginning of the crisis, both general measures and sectoral measures, as well as those extended until the end of August, and the transitional measures after August. The white block, at the top of the table, is about royal decree No. 14 with measures on student labour, short contracts, the employment of asylum seekers, the posting and overtime to be paid. The Royal Decree will not be renewed; it will end on 30 June, as requested in the super-core and in the COOVID Committee here in Parliament. Then I get to slide no. 13, which provides answers to the questions put by Mrs Willaert and Mr Bertels on persons with disabilities. The beneficiaries of a benefit were severely affected by measures taken in connection with the COOVID-19 crisis. A large number of beneficiaries could no longer go to support services, such as social restaurants, social grocery stores or social services. Families with dependent children had to cope with additional costs related to home education or problems due to the closure of school refters. There were also additional costs for people with disabilities, for example through closed reception initiatives and more difficult transport options. Individuals were temporarily faced with additional costs, for example due to the unavailability of white products and the need to purchase mouth masks and other medical equipment. Finally, losses in income, employment or self-employment have also put other persons in a precarious situation. In order to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis on families in difficulty, we grant a premium to persons who receive an income replacement benefit or integration allowance, to wage-earners and to beneficiaries of the income guarantee for the elderly. An additional payment of EUR 50 will therefore be granted to those who receive an income replacement benefit or integration allowance. This will be done for a period of six months from July 2020. The additional benefit will be granted to the people receiving their benefit during the current month and will be paid as much as possible at the same time as the benefit. It is important to note that it will be a separate payment and not an increase in the benefit itself. It is a temporary measure that runs until the end of this year. The proposal approved by the comprehensive core last Friday, was converted into a legislative text by the three Cabinets responsible for pensions, persons with disabilities and living wages, which is currently on the Council of Ministers on Wednesday 17 June 2020. The KB will then also follow the normal legislative path. I have, of course, also taken note of the opinion of 27 May of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities and, as with any advice, I have ensured that the expressed concerns are followed. The opinion notes, inter alia, that the measures taken by the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities to adapt its services during the lockdown period have remained unchanged since 30 April. These measures were updated on 8 June. The update relates in particular to the resumption of physical agreements with medical evaluators. Except for those evaluators and the social seating days, the Executive Board remained fully operational during the lockdown period. From the beginning of the period up to 7 June 76,384 decisions were taken, new applications and revisions were made at the request of persons with disabilities. During the same period, many fewer other applications were submitted, i.e. 48,586. For this reason, the volume of current applications decreased by 35% during this period. With the gradual lifting of restrictions for health reasons, the arrangements for assessing disability were gradually resumed from this month onwards. Despite the adjustments made, a number of applications for benefits have been blocked during the evaluation phase, because their examination requires a physical examination by a doctor. The resumption of physical agreements must make it possible to meet this need, but there must also be a balance between this need and the protection of the health of users and employees. The plan for the resumption of consultations takes account of these two concerns and of a foreseeable increase in requests in the coming months, following the gradual return of activities of front-line actors and services such as treating physicians and social services of municipalities, CPAS and mutualities. The use of teleconsultation as an additional means of consultation is also provided for social services, as long as they take place in the premises made available by the municipalities. Contacts shall be made with each administration concerned in order to be able to determine on a case-by-case basis their resumption. As regards compliance with the time-limits that applicants have to comply with, all these procedures have been adapted since the beginning of the crisis so as not to penalise applicants. These measures will continue to apply. The Directorate-General's services have improved considerably over the past two years. The promises made in this connection were also met. The lockdown period had no negative effect on this. Then I come to slide 14 on poverty reduction, on which questions were raised by Mr De Vuyst, Mrs Samyn, Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Leroy and Mrs Moscufo. Within the Vulnerable Groups Task Force, several proposals are being examined to support the most vulnerable groups in our society that are economically and socially affected by this health crisis. In this crisis, therefore, we must take measures to prevent poverty from rising all at once. Hence the wide safety net that we have put up with temporary unemployment and the right to bridge the gap for the self-employed. The work of the Task Force is still under way. The evaluation of the working method was included as an item on the agenda of the next meeting. The various organizations represented in the consultation group have introduced numerous fact sheets, many of which have already received a response, while others still require further consideration. In order to maintain the confidentiality of the discussions, we chose not to make the fact sheets public for the time being. Organizations are of course free to share their proposals with those who wish to do so. As far as the results of the work are concerned, the task force has, in the first instance, focused on the most pressing problems. The homeless shelter and the additional funds for the food banks were extended. In addition, €15 million has been released to provide social assistance to CPAS. This amount was further increased by 100 million last weekend. The most striking measure is the granting of a monthly premium of EUR 50 for a period of six months to all those who benefit from integration income, an income allowance, an integration allowance or an income guarantee for the elderly (GRAPA). Additional measures have also been taken for persons with disabilities, such as the equalisation of the temporary unemployment benefit with work income for the award of IT or a more flexible system for accessing paid employment. In order to cope with the additional workload resulting from the new measures and the need to assist more people, the OMCWs will receive an additional EUR 10 million operating resources. I would like to point out that specific questions concerning the functioning and financing of the OMCWs are a matter for Mr Ducarme. Children in families in poverty can all the more be affected by the health crisis. Lower income for these vulnerable families is often affected by higher costs in terms of energy, health and food consumption. In order to cope with the loss of income of these families, in early May a fund of EUR 15 million was set aside for the OCMWs to support them in paying rent, energy bills, school bills, studies, etc. There is also the EUR 100 million I have just mentioned. This amount will be used by the OMCWs to support those vulnerable groups with, for example, energy poverty. The social consequences of COOVID-19 will indeed be felt in the longer term. It is precisely for that reason that we use vulnerable groups within the task force in ways to cope with social consequences. This crisis of temporary isolation undoubtedly leaves its mark on children in poverty, on emotional and social development. Within the Task Force, we will continue to focus, together with the federated entities, on possible support measures for this vulnerable group, including in the longer term. The next Federal Plan to combat poverty is in full development, with priority being given to combating child poverty and responding to the impact of this crisis on children in poverty. Together with experts and civil society organisations, we are looking for ways to deal with this in a sustainable and efficient way. However, we prefer that the plan be finalized by the next government, as its conduct within a government is a crucial success factor. From the start of the lockdown, homeless people form a vulnerable group with particular attention. That is why I decided to approve the extension of winter care in Brussels and to finance homeless care with psychological, medical and social support in Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and Liège. In line with the evolution of COOVID-19, it was also decided to extend the operation of the above provisions for the first time until 31 May and a second time until 31 July. These measures show that the government is committed to the most vulnerable. They have been made possible mainly by the continuous deployment of associations active in the field and by the OMCWs of the cities concerned. I would like to thank them sincerely for this. All homeless facilities took note of Sciensano's recommendations. It is recommended that residents and staff of residential collections meeting the definition of a possible COVID case are tested by a GP. From two cases in the same institution, regional health authorities will decide on the most appropriate further testing strategy adapted to local conditions. In the context of reimbursement of non-insurance medical assistance, the tests carried out by the approved laboratories may be reimbursed in accordance with the law of 2 April 1965. There is no brake charge for this test, the whole amount is refundable. After all, the laboratory should not charge any supplements. Tests carried out on homeless persons belonging to a sickness fund are directly covered by that sickness fund. Colleagues, I have come to the end of this. There is still a question that is not included in the overview about the compensatory measures for those who have remained in operation during the corona period. Much has already been said about this, but I would like to add two more elements. I have explained the corona-parental leave and such things. This is very specific about the premium. You know that the super core has decided that the consumer cheque can also be given by employers up to a maximum amount of EUR 300. The cheque is outside the wage standard and must be included in a collective agreement or in an individual agreement for companies in which there is no syndicated delegation. The cheque can be used both in the catering, culture and sports sector. For the federal care premium, the government has decided to work in two areas. In addition, Parliament has taken a first important step within the framework of the Health Care Staff Fund with this amount of EUR 400 million. Since it is important to find structural solutions for the care staff, further consultations with the representatives of Mrs de Block and Mr Clarinval with the social partners have been launched. That negotiating body, in which my cabinet and I also lead the negotiations, has already met three times. The aim is to reach agreement on improved wage and working conditions for all hospital and home nursing staff. It seems to me that structural measures are more appropriate here than a premium. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u30	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. I give the floor to Mrs Moscufo for her inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. [[To be brief and concise, I have heard that you are not taking this responsibility for yourself or your government.]] You will have understood that we have another opinion on the matter. We believe that the government has sided with the employers in this matter, instead of taking sides with the people who have lost their jobs. For us, there has been a great weakness with regard to respect for the social rights that exist in our country. It is clear that you are not prepared to compensate workers who have lost their jobs and have lost their income. You are also not prepared to give access to unemployment to those people who have not been entitled to it because of the situation. We will table a motion for recommendation that we will introduce with the services. We're doing it to try to convince you again. We hope that other colleagues will support us in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u32	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Nadia Moscufo and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Nadia Moscufo and the response of the Minister for Employment, the Economy and Consumers, responsible for the fight against poverty, equal opportunities and persons with disabilities, Whereas the problem of dismissal of workers in temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure, whose notice period was not suspended during the Corona crisis, has in practice amended the Belgian law on dismissals; asks the government - provide for an additional allowance for employees who have been dismissed and whose notice period coincided in whole or in part with a "temporary VOCID-19 unemployment" due to force majeure, up to the net wage to which the employee would normally have been entitled; - to make undertakings which have abused the scheme invoking their liquidity problems liable for the financing of this supplement; - to ensure that every worker who has been dismissed in this way, but who does not have the right to unemployment benefits, has access to this right." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Nadia Moscufo and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Nadia Moscufo and the reply of the Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumers in charge of Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities and Persons with Disabilities, having regard to the problem of redundant workers in temporary unemployment for reasons of force majeure, whose period of notice was not suspended during this corona crisis, which in practice changed the Belgian law on dismissal, asks the government - workers made redundant, whose period of notice was partly or completely linked to a "temporary unemployment COVID-19" for reasons of force majeure, to supplement their benefits, up to the net wage to which the worker would normally have been entitled; - to make the financing of this supplement more responsive to those companies which have made excessive use of this scheme in relation to their liquidity problems; - anyone who has been dismissed in this way, but is not entitled to unemployment benefits, still has access to this right." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Ms. Nawal Farih. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mrs Nawal Farih. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u33	Mrs. Moscufo, what should I be convinced of? The committee made the decision. She wanted to go further. There was an opinion of the Council of State following which the text was amended and then adopted. I have introduced a solution into a royal decree of special powers, but Parliament has been faster than I am. I let him work and that's the result.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u34	As a minister, you had the power to make this royal decree, but you chose to leave room for democratic debate in Parliament. There has indeed been a debate, which has not solved all the problems faced by these workers. We do not want to question the usefulness of having debated in Parliament, but, in our view, you could have solved problems for some workers, the most vulnerable, who are outside the scope of application. We were not all in agreement in this debate, we were as far away as possible despite differences of opinion as to how to charge employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u35	Mrs Moscufo, if there is no majority in Parliament, there is no majority in the government either. I also need a majority to make decisions, either for a Royal Order of Special Powers or for a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u36	I believe that the incident is closed, given the particular governmental and parliamentary situation, with even less majority in a government than in a Parliament. This is a particularly unusual situation, as we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u37	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you once again for the comprehensive explanation, which not only provides an overview of the measures already taken, but also clarifies some of the questions that I had in relation to the forthcoming relaunch measures taken last Friday. The figures show that by relaxing temporary unemployment and taking care of people through this system, the worst suffering can be overcome and lay off as much as possible, just as it has done in the past. I hope that this will also be possible to say about the other measures you propose, such as collective reduction of working hours and the transitional system of economic unemployment. Figures are, of course, always relative. If one is involved in such a thing, it is much more difficult than a figure can ever express. We will certainly cooperate in this respect. I have a few more questions. Have the sectors seriously affected, where temporary unemployment due to force majeure would be extended by Corona, been established until the end of December? I went to another committee for a moment to ask a question and perhaps I missed that part of your answer. I also had a question about the car sector. I think it is related to the tourism sector. Is that still to be documented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u38	Madam Secretary, I had another question about the artistic sector. A lot of relaxations were decided with the best of intentions. In practice, not all of these have flowed smoothly. There are still problems, for example for people who are paid with a job wage or for people who are denied the Dimona declaration on a day-to-day basis. It's about rewards based on benefits, not basic income. I am considering an initiative for a possible benefit based on past performance. A basic income is by no means my intention, which may be easier to demonstrate than cancelled future events. In any case, I look forward to your further consultation with the administration for the annual holiday, as the annual holiday for that group also appears to be a very important stumbling block. In any case, this element should be taken into account in the global debate on the status of artists. Now we see that artists often work while they receive unemployment benefits. Employers often receive very little remuneration for their assignments. I believe that the work of artists should also be viewed in a different way. With regard to the telework premium, I will certainly put a question to Minister De Croo. From the press releases I thought I understood that the premium could be granted by the employer, up to a maximum of 127 euros. Since it now appears that I have to put my question to Minister De Croo, that premium may be granted by the government. In that case, I am also looking forward to the negotiations in the National Labour Council. So far, according to the collective agreement, only expenses, internet connections and material could be reimbursed, but no heating costs, for example. By generalising telework, people will feel that for other things, especially in winter, their costs should be compensated. I also got a specific question about employees from a company with a company restaurant. Normally they can eat cheaper in the company restaurant. Now they're being put on a massive telework mission. In the future, they may experience this even more. They wonder how this social benefit can be compensated, especially for the COOVID period, and whether it will be part of new social dialogue in the future. For the conversion of prenatal leave in the event of temporary unemployment, sickness or removal from work to post-natal leave, I am of course particularly pleased that the law will be published tomorrow. I have received a lot of questions from women who are in this situation and whose maternity leave ends in this period after 19 weeks. Many have contacted their employer. It is true that there is a single period of employment law, but I fear that it will unfortunately still leave women, even though the law had been passed, which will fall through the loopholes of the network. Some women did say they'd take a vacation. This way they can arrange it with the employer and it can be corrected afterwards, but after an annual holiday one goes back to work. Despite the very good solution we have achieved in Parliament, a number of women will still fall between the loopholes of the network. They had read in the paper that the law had been passed. It is not about many people, but about women who are just in that situation and who are unlucky to fall between the vote in Parliament and the publication in the Belgian Official Journal. Can a solution be found for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u39	Madam President, I will make choices not to be too long. Madam Minister, first of all with regard to the situation at Brussels Airlines, I thank you for the answers you gave us. You referred us, among other things, to the Committee on Mobility for certain aspects. In this sense, it demonstrates the importance of having a joint commission. That is what we have been asking for for for a long time. I hear that in terms of mobility, there is an agreement to be able to organise hearings quickly. I wait until the end of the session to see what the Chair is going to tell us about this. But in any case, we would like to agree with that. On the issue of inspections, you have also given the number of companies that have been checked. It was important for us to have this information. Thank you. We would also like to know how many companies have been sanctioned. I feel like it wasn't in the presentation, but it could have escaped me. With regard to the bill that we voted for postnatal leave, I agree with the arguments that my colleague from Sp.a has just made. We were all very happy to be able to vote on this law a few weeks ago - I don't remember, time passes so fast. It is true that many women are in a situation where either they are not very familiar with the steps they have to take, or, as my colleague has said, they are in a situation where they have to return to work. We have the rather positive experience of a lady who was able to arrange with her employer not to resume until the law was published. But from my partial view of the world of work, I have the impression that few women will be able to make this arrangement with their employer. We can only regret the lack of speed with the publication of the law. I think there is still an effort to be made in the area of communication, even though you have highlighted the various things you have done. (...) I know, Madam Minister. But we have had several calls that many women's associations do not know very well what advice they should give. I am not questioning what you have already put in place, but we are starting from the reality of the ground. It's not a personal attack. On the issue of premiums, thank you for your clarification. You know that, as a party, we are obviously defending everything that is social consultation and various labour agreements at sectoral level; but we are saying that we are here in a rather special situation and we are really wondering if you should not raise the tone a little bit. Indeed, we are not in a normal situation. Giving a signal from above to say that there must also be in all assimilation sectors if premiums are not to be planed, is really very important. This puts "a little butter in the spinach" for the wages of the workers they will lose when they have nothing to do with it. I have heard your answers about the cultural sector, but there, the debate is continuing to try to move forward structurally for the workers in the sector and to see how we can give aid to all those who pass through the meshes of the net.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u40	Madam President, at one point, I lost the translation. So I didn't understand everything. With regard to the possible overlap between traditional parental leave and Corona parental leave, there are in my commune agents who were on regular parental leave and who asked to go on Corona parental leave. I had asked the minister about the potential impacts in terms of extending traditional parental leave. I would also like to thank the Minister for the very many figures she has given us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u41	Thank you, minister, for your different answers. I arrived a little late, but I followed on from the committee where I was. I hope I've heard everything. With regard to my questions concerning the air sector, and in particular the case of TUI, I regret that I did not obtain more information. As I understand it, you have replied that, so far, you have not witnessed significant waves of layoffs in the sector, except at Swissport and Brussels Airlines. The case of TUI is not that of a bankruptcy as at Swissport. The announcement of a restructuring plan does not bode well for workers. These same workers deserve more consideration. This requires, in particular, a clear and accurate search and communication of information. I understand the concern that is present today at TUI. Again last Monday, the group's management spoke of a restructuring in France. The question of the situation of TUI in Belgium can legitimately be asked. Belgian workers are left uncertain. In the case of Ryanair, I am reassured to hear you say that you are being questioned by the company's lack of respect for the rules of labour law. The airline's wanderings are not lacking: miscalculation of wages, forget about supplements, problems with days off and I pass it. Ryanair was already not respecting the rights of its employees before the crisis, and it's not going to fix anything, I think. We must try to prevent, in general, companies able to recover after the crisis from taking advantage of the current situation to dismiss their employees and re-engage them a few weeks later, with degrading or different working conditions. As far as the annual premium CP 200 is concerned, if I understand correctly, the days of temporary unemployment are not treated as days actually worked, which disappoints me. Indeed, the workers are not responsible for the crisis, but they will be very affected by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u42	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u43	That's not what you said. They are therefore assimilated. That's perfect! I'm reassured. I started my sentence with "if I understood correctly" because I arrived when you were answering. With regard to job search during and after the crisis, as you pointed out, the unemployment rate among young people falls every year. I would still like to remind you that we are living in a particular climate. And the National Bank has announced an additional 186,000 unemployed by the end of the year, which I can only worry about. Moreover, according to Acerta's annual barometer published at the end of April, 18% of workers are afraid of losing their jobs as a result of the crisis and its economic consequences. I therefore think that this is not over and that there will be a post-COVID crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u44	Madam President, Minister, exceptional times call for exceptional measures, especially in view of the fact that it will not be easy to find a job in the current circumstances. One of the recent decisions of the nuclear cabinet is therefore the extension of the freeze on the degressivity of unemployment benefits. That is a good thing, which will provide a little more financial breathing space for the affected. As far as holidays are concerned, we must not forget that for many workers in temporary unemployment the times are financially difficult. It is good to know that for everyone in temporary unemployment, holidays will be treated as working days, so that next year no holidays for workers will be lost. On the other hand, we must not forget the employers, who, in these difficult circumstances, must also survive. It therefore seems fair to me to support the demands of entrepreneurs. At the same time, there will certainly need to be a preventive approach to activation and guidance in the search for work, so that the redundant workers can get back to work quickly. As you pointed out in your explanatory statement, we must also invest in training for specific sectors where the need is greatest. Families in vulnerable groups didn't have it easy for COVID-19. Especially children in financially vulnerable situations suffer extra from the corona crisis. Already one in ten children is growing up in poverty, and the fear is that the corona crisis will drive many thousands of other families towards poverty. It is good to hear that additional measures will be taken for this vulnerable group. It is a sad fact, but unfortunately this vulnerability also poses a health risk. As you said yourself: poor often makes sick and often makes poor. Everyone agrees that the healthcare sector has made and continues to make enormous efforts during this corona crisis. After this crisis, there must indeed be a review of the profession and health structures. In addition to workers in the healthcare sector, hundreds of thousands of workers remained at work during the crisis, not always in the most ideal conditions. In the meantime, several family-friendly measures have already been taken for certain categories of workers, such as coronacare leave. I hope that the government will also consider the slope of granting additional leave, which my question was also about. Maybe it's an option to consider extra leave. This question of additional leave for those who continued to work appears to be considerable. We must not forget the concern of the weak in our society. In this committee, the pressure on home-working parents with children was repeatedly raised. We all know that finding the balance between work and family is not easy. Many of us cannot even imagine what that must be like for parents of a child with disabilities, who need extra attention and care. From your answer, I understand that the conditions were looked at as with time credits, but for parents who just dropped out of the boat because, for example, their child received 6 or 8 points, this is a bitter pill to swallow. They can't just take their kid to a summer camp. I received a distressing e-mail from a lady with a 14-year-old son, to whom six points were awarded. For the summer months, she has nowhere to go for her son's care. She has to vouch for care and guidance herself and therefore works half-time during the summer holiday. This also leads to a price tag. I know that this is a Flemish competence, or rather of the Communities, but I would like to make a few comments. The family also has to pay hundreds of euros extra for psychological assistance, for example, without any kind of reimbursement, despite the fact that, according to the Youth Welfare Agency, it would be entitled to compensation. Unfortunately, there is no budget. I therefore hope that the Corona leave will be granted to parents with children with disabilities without an age limit, without taking into account a number of points. It is precisely the parents who fall out of the boat that need this and have at least the same right to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u45	I will focus on two elements, Madam Minister. First of all, postnatal leave. I think there are two difficulties. I fully acknowledge that the work has been undertaken in a context of crisis and urgency, of a minority government, etc. I understand how the implementation of a law passed by parliamentarians is complicated when it arrives in a cabinet of ministers. I understand that. Nevertheless, I would have preferred that the work of anticipation be better with respect to retroactivity. I mean, the law was passed at second reading on 26 May. We already had an idea of what was coming. The law was passed in plenary on 4 June and will pass to the Monitor on 18 June. As early as April, the SPOC was asked the first question, asking what would happen to women in periods not recognized as equivalent, since they were unemployed because of force majeure. Initially, this measure transposed into a bill was urgently needed to ensure that, as of 1 March, these elements were taken into account. We are now on 17 June in the face of a law passed, the application of which begins on 1 March. This retroactivity is probably neither applied nor applicable because there is no transitional measure. It's very complicated. There is no transitional measure on the issue of retroactivity. What is the consequence of this situation? Women have necessarily had no recourse since they were told around May 26 that there may be postnatal leave. Although they go to their employers or mutuals, they tell them that they still don't know anything. And when they want to make arrangements, such as a regular parental leave or a time loan, it interrupts the postnatal leave and they can no longer benefit from this retroactivity. The whole problem is there. The principle of retroactivity was not anticipated. Whether or not the principle of retroactivity is supported in a law, it has been debated in Parliament. This principle is not easy to implement, I fully acknowledge it. The configuration today is such that mothers who should be able to benefit from this postnatal leave do not benefit from it. I think there is a real problem of illegality or discrimination in the non-application of this retroactivity. On the issue of information, the work was done as we could. We've been informed as much as we can. Nevertheless, some mothers came back saying that their mutual or employer was not aware of anything. It's a problem. This is to be noted because it is a non-compliance with an enforced law. In the short time I have left, I would also like to talk about the task force on vulnerable audiences. I am very happy to hear you say that there will be an evaluation in the near future. I assume that a written document can be read carefully by the committee's colleagues, to find out how you worked, what fact sheets were taken into account, what solutions were proposed, etc. All this so that we can do a longer-term, more structural job. I thank you very much for the time you have devoted to this task force on vulnerable audiences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u46	Madam Minister, we have received a very detailed reply from you which shows that both you and your colleagues in the government have taken this crisis to heart. Many measures have been taken in various areas. I am thinking of measures to combat poverty, unemployment benefits, suspensions. We have also asked questions to supplement the maternity rest bill. Many of those questions were answered, including mine. You reassured me when you said that you are already preparing a federal plan to combat poverty. In these difficult times, too, you have begun to do so. That's good. I understand that you want this to be completed by the next government, but we need to prepare this now. If it's too long, I'd still like to urge you to continue. If necessary, you will come to Parliament with this. so that we can go on with this and people do not fall victim to politics or political parties. We don't care about that. They don't care about that. I therefore ask you to proceed with this. The task force has done important work. They've made up a bunch of chips. I would like an overview or an evaluation of the measures that have already been implemented and those that have not yet been implemented. Some measures cannot be taken in the short term because they fit into a larger set of structural measures or need to be included in a poverty plan. Maybe Parliament can do something too. We can discuss this together with the relevant ministers and possibly invite some people from the task force to a debate, but then we need a basic document. I know that a great deal has already happened and that not everything can be implemented from the more than 100 measures proposed. Finally, I would also like to ask that the work of the people of civil society in the task force be consolidated somehow. I know that there are other channels and means in contact with civil society to carry out the policy work, but I think that civil society has done a very good job. It is worth considering whether the current structures of consultation are sufficient and whether they could not be supplemented by people from the task force. Maybe we can organise the meeting differently in the future. I'd like to give you this as a recommendation. I don't have any further questions for the rest right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you for this specific presentation, particularly with regard to the situation of artists. I was able to obtain clarification on my various questions. You reminded us of the various measures taken in this context, which I support. However, I will have to ask the competent minister about the issue of artist-specific pensions, which I will certainly do. The situation in the cultural, artistic and event sector remains difficult despite all these measures. I wonder whether, in view of the prolongation of the crisis, we should not think together about adapting those measures so that we can help this sector, which is most affected. Despite all the things that have been put in place, there is still a series of workers in this sector who do not fit into the boxes that the system imposes. It is our duty to reflect on how to improve their condition. At present, some have not yet been able to benefit from the aid provided for or from the relaxation of certain rules. I know you're paying attention to this particular sector and you said you wanted to take stock in July. I hope that the cultural, artistic and event sector will have all your attention so as not to leave some workers on the roadside. Minister, your presentations are always accurate and detailed and it is nice to be able to work under these conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u48	Madam Minister, the topical and urgent debate has gone a long way. Many themes had to be addressed, which naturally has the disadvantage of not being able to answer all of them in the same depth and there is a risk that not all questions will be answered. That is a bit the case for my questions. I have asked questions on four different issues, and I will, chronologically, in accordance with your answer, make a number of comments and ask questions. As regards controls on temporary unemployment, you have given a very detailed answer to the fact that there are targeted checks by the RVA, mainly and starting with an administrative inquiry which inter alia involves cross-checking a lot of data and monitoring a number of parameters. We have already had an exchange of views on this. I have already set the example of companies that can easily recruit and at the same time make use of temporary unemployment. I understand from your answer that this is one of the flashing lights on the basis of which the RVA is investigating and that is, of course, very good. Good control is also important to ensure that most of the employees and employers who play the game fairly do not fall victim to a minority who thinks it is necessary to cheat. One of the specific questions I asked was the limited number of field checks. According to the last figure we know, there were 461 field controls. I can imagine that a number of ground checks have now been added. I asked you why, but you didn't answer, unless I missed it, for which I apologize. I think the answer is that, of course, this is also difficult to control. You mentioned the example yourself: on 5 June there are 1,500 workers who have applied for March, but it is difficult to check after that application on 5 June whether, for example, there was black work during that period in March. That is, of course, difficult and difficult, which is why I suggested earlier that, if temporary unemployment were to be extended, a distinction should be made between real force majeure companies which are not allowed to start after 1 July and mainly economic reasons. One of the things that should be made much easier to check certain things on time is the following: if temporary unemployment is used as from 1 July because of corona, employers should be asked, who are able to estimate fairly well how many workers they can and cannot employ, to pass on the planning of the temporary unemployed in advance. For example, the RVA can start checking at the moment itself. This is not an excessive burden on employers, because they should do so in normal times when it comes to temporary unemployment for economic reasons. That would make it possible to control a number of things which cannot be controlled today. In the context of temporary unemployment, I asked what the modalities are for an extension until the end of August. If I have understood correctly, the current arrangements will continue to apply. However, an extension until the end of 2020 for certain sectors would no longer cover the same modalities. The distinction is that the 5,63 euro would then be borne by the employer and no longer borne by the RVA. Are there any other modalities that will change from 1 September? I asked another question to which I did not receive a clear answer. As from 1 September, you will consider this extension as announced in the beautiful scheme on slide 12 and you have mentioned a number of sectors that are eligible for it, the so-called severely affected sectors. You also said that you would not take a decision on this at the moment and that you wanted to wait and see what the months of July and August will bring. That is, of course, a somewhat double message. Mr Vanrobaeys has already said in a different context that what is said here is not without obligation because people accept it for truth. If you say that you have not yet taken a decision, but at the same time you mention a number of sectors, this can, of course, create confusion. I have also asked on the basis of which criteria these sectors are selected, but that has not become clear to me. However, this is important in order to be able to check afterwards whether the announced policy has been effectively implemented. We can then immediately see if we think it is a good idea. I would therefore be very grateful if you could clarify on the basis of which specific indicators and criteria these sectors are selected. I also had questions about the degressivity. I can see from your schedule that the degressivity will be stopped at least until the end of August, but no longer for the time being. In corona times, with a lockdown in which almost all economic sectors were banned from continuing their activities, it was of course almost impossible to find a new job. I therefore think it is logical that the degressivity was stopped. In the meantime, however, we are in a situation in which our economy and its actors are still particularly vulnerable, but economic activity is beginning to get back on track. What reasoning is behind the decision to halt degressivity until the end of August? After all, today's situation has already changed considerably compared to 1 April. As far as double payouts are concerned, I understand that you have not yet been able to determine the numbers and the total size. I understand. I only regret that these double payouts were possible at all. I insist that it should be perfectly possible, on the basis of the national number, to link up the data of the various payout institutions, so that double payouts are now a thing of the past. The question of whether there should be one or more payout institutions in the future is something I should like to leave aside for the time being. On an earlier occasion, I asked you, and I repeated this today, who is to be recovered. It is still not clear to me who is to be recovered in the case of multiple payout institutions and how that is to be determined. You also said that in a number of cases the wrongly paid benefits will be deducted from future payments. In this connection, I have the impression that there may not be any future payments at all. You yourself indicated that there are about a hundred addresses involved abroad. In that case, recovery does not seem to me to be easy at all. Finally, I would like to double-check whether I have understood correctly that the payout institutions themselves must be responsible for the recovery and that if they fail to do so, they will pay for the overpaid benefits themselves. You're nodding, that's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u49	We have received a lot of information and, as Mr Chanson said, that is a pleasant work. With regard to the problem which now arises for a small group in relation to maternity rest, which Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mrs Leroy have clearly described, it does not really matter whether the measure was implemented by parliamentary means or through the government. Indeed, the retroactivity until 1 March 2020 was always the intention, as I understood from the preparatory work you had already done on this issue. We would therefore have always been faced with the problem. It has nothing to do with the fact that there is a period between the adoption at the plenary session and the appearance in the Belgian Official Journal tomorrow, which is of course very nice. It also has to do with retroactivity in itself. It does not matter whether the problem is with Parliament or with the government. We are in any case asking for the heads to be put together and to see if there is anything we can do on this matter. I do not see it right away and understand that labour law must be for one period. But perhaps something is still possible for that small group of mommies who are now very disappointed. We may all get such messages. Finally, on the fight against poverty, we are very pleased with the EUR 300 premium. But, of course, this premium is still inadequate, because the income of those concerned is well below the poverty line, even with six times EUR 50 over the next six months. I just want to say that it must remain an exercise for everyone to do better in this area. For more than a decade, including successive government agreements, it has been stated that the increase in benefits should be made at least to the poverty line. You yourself pointed to the higher costs, especially for families with children, who, for example, had to buy extra school supplies. With that six times 50 euros, they really don't get very far. We also welcome the additional support of EUR 15 million and EUR 100 million; we were also asking for it in the supercore. It is important for us that the additional aid should be for the benefit of those with the highest needs. We must now move from a stage in which we have helped everyone, which was incredibly important, to a stage in which we are taking more targeted measures to help the people most in need. That is what we are making a priority of over the next few months. We need to keep a very close eye on where the greatest needs lie.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u50	I got a fairly short answer to my question about the study on free work, carried out by seamstresses during the crisis. In a spirit of generosity and solidarity, the seamstresses pacified the absence of masks at the beginning of the crisis, as the nursing staff did not have the masks needed to protect themselves. Gradually, these seamstresses were caught in a gear, where they were asked to sew masks, sometimes for many hours, on behalf of institutions, municipalities, schools or large companies such as Colruyt. This experience left them with a bitter taste and the impression that they had been exploited, in the sense that they were the only ones who were not paid in a production chain that it was. Today, a study was carried out in France in order to evaluate the free work done by seamstresses and, consequently, the overall economic loss, since these women worked for nothing. I asked you, therefore, whether it was possible to carry out a similar study in Belgium. Given the mobilization we have witnessed and the authorities' shortcomings in this regard, the least we can do would be to objectify this work and assess it to its full value.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u51	Minister, do you have any comments to make? Unless another group that was not included in the debate wishes to take the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u52	I would like to go back to one element of one of my answers, because I think I've expressed myself badly. I have, in fact, referred to CP 200 (Joint Committee) and to temporary unemployment because of force majeure, which, in my view, is not considered to be days actually worked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u54	Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, you're actually pissing me off when it comes to motherhood. Some don't quite know what it takes to get a law passed and into the Belgian Official Journal. You think that one document goes to the minister who signs it and that it will be in the Belgian Official Journal the next day. You passed that law on Thursday, June 4th. I myself received Parliament's law on a parchment, as it should be, on 8 June. I immediately signed the document and sent it to Mrs De Block's cabinet on the same day. Mrs. De Block signed it and then it goes to the King. The King signed the document on June 12th. Then it'll have to come on the land's seal. Mr Geens must therefore stick a seal and sign it again. That happened on 14 June. It then goes to the Belgian Official Journal, where it was published on 18 June. If a law is passed in Parliament and it is already in the Belgian Official Journal ten days later, this could almost not happen sooner, unless the few days it remained in the Palace. To say that it has taken too long and that a method has to be found to make it go faster is all right. I understand you're angry. There is a group of people who have resumed work as part of the retroactivity and if not eligible for that additional period. That will always happen, even if that period is only three or five days. My administration proactively warned before the law was passed that she was coming and that the work should not be resumed. The FOD WASO has communicated this. We passed this on. The mutualities do not fall within my jurisdiction, but I will not hide behind them. We said very quickly that this information should be available there. I'm also getting emails and questions about that, just like you. However, Parliament was the legislator in this area. You could have included in your law a solution for that transitional period by working with retroactive effect. You didn't do that. I have no problem with the search for a solution to this problem. I'm also open to a solution. It is not my intention to exclude people from a system when they have an agreement. You are now angry at me because it took 10 days for the law to appear in the Belgian Official Journal. We did what we had to do. I am prepared to consider a solution, but you cannot ask me to approve a solution today and tell people who have resumed their performance to stay home and record the rest. It is not so obvious from a labour law point of view to do so. I understand that there is a problem and I am open to any creative, legally correct solution, and I want to participate in it. Please let us look at this in a positive way. With regard to teleworking and the EUR 127, I also await further texts. These are texts that were put forward during the super-core by non-government parties. We are now fully considering the way in which this needs to be clarified. The colleagues De Block and De Croo also look at this. Mrs Vanrobaeys, I understand that this is a matter of cost to the employer. One is going to get costs for PC and internet, but also heating costs and such get refunded from the employer. And that employer can then deduct those costs tax. That's what I understand. However, I am not aware of the detailed arrangements for their implementation, as there are no concrete texts on this matter. Mrs Moscufo, in connection with the end-of-year grant, this is typically part of a sectoral agreement at the enterprise level. Conventions are being concluded on this subject. The legislator does not intervene. This is different from the holiday allowance because there is no intervention in respect of end-of-year premiums. Nothing stands in the way of social dialogue today to conclude an intersectoral agreement on this issue. You can ask the Minister to resolve this legislation, but I do not intend to do so. I leave it to the social partners to play their part in this. Mr Bihet, you had a question about parental leave. It is perfectly possible to switch from one system to another. There's a suspension of the other system. If you have parental leave, this will be suspended. It's all about corona-parental leave. This period is not added up. Once this period has been completed, for example by the end of September 2020, we can start again from 1 October 2020 where we left off in the previous system. One can also go back to a tenth parental leave. One can go back to other systems. There is a suspension of the previous system. Mrs Thémont, a distinction must be made between Brussels Airlines and Swissport in relation to the travel sector. Swissport is a company that announced bankruptcy. That's a totally different arrangement. The law Renault doesn't play here. This means that curators will take over and see if continuity can be guaranteed. But there must also be income to keep people working. They say this is not the case here. That means that two things will happen. People get their wages that haven't been paid yet. For Swissport I understand that wages have been paid until the end of May, which I think is not insignificant. If there are other premiums, such as holiday or year-end premiums, this is paid by the Close-up Fund. There is a ceiling of 25,000 euros. I understand from the trade unions that a lot of people will fall within this amount, so that most of them will also receive their compensation for what they are still entitled to. This will be reimbursed by the fund. There is also employment with the employment cells. Work cells must be activated, but this depends on the Regions, VDAB, Actiris and Forem. Brussels Airlines is in full restructuring. A collective resignation has been announced and a social plan is coming. From our administration and cabinet, we do everything in our power to provide technical support and solutions. The pilots' dossier is also being negotiated in a positive way and we hope that there will be a good social plan for the pilots too, which will avoid as much naked layoffs as possible. There have also been problems with Ryanair during the corona period, which remains. We've fought it a lot. I think you are referring with your question to the file that has recently emerged. These are people who are partly in temporary unemployment for the hours they perform, but they do not receive compensation for the hours they wait. Together with ONEM, we are looking for solutions for those people. Our inspection services remain strongly focused on Ryanair. Mrs Samyn, you are asking how the measure of equalization of leave is working for employers. It is an invoice of 580 million euros. The issue lies ahead of the government. Several Members of this House have already spoken about this last week, but I do not hear the enthusiasm to do so. So we have to see what's going to happen in the next few weeks. If the government takes over these costs, then it is 380 million euros for workers and 200 million euros for servants, so there are serious amounts against it. With regard to persons and children with disabilities, we follow the systems that require nine points to be achieved over the three existing categories. Those who fail to achieve that number of points are not eligible. These are categories for which everything applies, including any approved benefit. It would be a precedent if we were to depart from it now. However, in the COVID-19 committee last week, I listened very carefully to the Members of Parliament. Three things emerged: it must be a right that does not allow it to be introduced in the short term, it must be full-time and the premium must be raised. Single parents and people with disabilities were defined as very vulnerable. Well, last Friday, on a proposal from the supercore, we offered some solutions to your concerns by making the 150 % and making it full-time. Mrs Leroy expressed an important concern about maternity leave. I answered that question. Mrs. Lanjri is no longer here. The Task Force will continue to exist in the context of poverty. It is not a problem to publish information sheets and work on them when the reports are available. Transparency can only bring us further. Madame Chanson, Mrs Vanrobaeys, we have sought many solutions in Parliament. However, there are a number of people in the sector who fall outside. I've heard an initiative from a colleague. I'm always willing to think about things that are applicable and workable. In the long run, it must all be workable for the services. Madame Schlitz, I have answered in the general question, but it is not possible to study the services. It's volunteer work. That study about the hours would perhaps serve to give a compensation after that. I have a lot of appreciation for it, but volunteering is voluntary work. We need to fully support it. I don't immediately intend to study it to see how many hours they work. Mr Anseeeuw had also asked a number of questions. There are 808 RVA inspectors on site, no more 461. I have also made it very clear in my reply that we are working with databases, data mining, data cross-section and databases. So much can be detected. Warnings are therefore given. Action is being taken on the basis of telephone data. It is also possible to establish infringements in this way. When, on the basis of complaints and after a telephone survey, it is found that something is really wrong, one will go on the spot. You say it concerns 1.3 million people and 130,000 companies, of which only 400 would be controlled. I hope I have convinced you with my answer that this is not the case at all. As regards temporary unemployment in the current circumstances, your party was also present two weeks ago and agreed to the general extension until 31 August, under the same terms and conditions. We're going to a transition system that was approved last Friday. This system states that there must be additional conditions. There must be training and there must be a 10% turnover reduction. We will no longer take over the EUR 5.63. The 70% continues, but the 5.63 euros do not. It is borne by the employer. There is one exception: the sectors that have been severely affected. For them, the government will charge the 5.63 euros and the additional conditions, a 10% reduction in turnover and additional training, will not count. I am shocked by your question, in the sense that last week in the super-core with all the parties, when we discussed the extension for the sectors, there was a very clear demand for it. It's obvious. I insist that these sectors will be included: the catering industry, the travel sector and the event sector. In fact, it is not that simple for the event sector. These people are employed in at least four or five joint committees. We said at the time that we would not knock. It has also been on the table of the Sherpas in the discussion we had with your party on this, Mr Anseuw. If we do that now, we fear that we will act too soon, and in July and August we may not be able to include certain sectors which are going to be very difficult at the time in that exercise. That is why we have been asked to wait to include sectors outside the three sectors mentioned. The parameter that we will be using, and which we still have to refine in our ministerial decision, will be the number of people still in temporary unemployment in that sector at that time. We have to stop the degressivity. It makes sense for us. It is often forgotten that on 1 June there are still 1 million people in temporary unemployment, even if the number of days is reduced. That's a good thing. It points to flexible use. We will still have 100 000 employers on 1 July who still wish to use temporary unemployment. If we decide to extend temporary unemployment and the right to bridge until the end of August, if we decide to extend all the measures, we feel it is only natural that we should stop the degressivity and extend the benefits until the end of August. We also think it's normal for us to do that for the artists. Then it will end at the end of August, and then we will stop the labour market as a result of the degressivity on 1 September (...) [[Minister doesn't finish]] You also know, Mr Anseuw, that there is much more to work than staying in unemployment. We are in favour of people who can have a job taking that job as well. But in the summer months it will not be so obvious. If we are to extend the other measures for everyone, I believe that we must also be consistent and extend them. I find it very strange that you should return to the double refunds. As far as double payments are concerned, I recall very well that I said at the last committee meeting that those who pay out depend on where they are. That payout cash will pay. You even asked, Mr Anseeeuw, what would happen if you were a member of two greenhouses. It's possible. I replied to you that the cashier in which the first application was submitted will pay out. That's what I said last time. That's where I'm pretty sure. If one member has applied for two payouts, for example at the Auxiliairekas and at a trade union, the cashier where one is a member will pay out. If someone is a member of two trade unions, they will pay where they first applied. That's how the payouts go. Mrs Willaert, we also have maternity leave. As far as poverty is concerned, with EUR six times 50, I know your fundamental remarks. We have done exercises in the context of the poverty line and have looked at who is most vulnerable. The most vulnerable are people with disabilities and today also people with a living wage. Some of them include those with the lowest unemployment benefit and those with the lowest pensions which are still a long way from the poverty line. Solving this structuralally is something for another government. Here we wanted to do something with the 300 euros for those who were worst affected. In addition, we give the OMCWs an additional EUR 100 million to do something more for the unemployed, pensioners, self-employed people with very low pensions or those facing energy poverty. The EUR 300 measure costs us EUR 120 million, with the EUR 100 million extra being EUR 220 million which we can now use structurally for those six months, for everyone who is struggling. OMCWs seem best placed to know the most vulnerable within their community and to respond to their problems in a very targeted way. So far, the answers to the questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u56	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Minister, thank you. I ask the members of the commission to be very brief in their replies because the minister must leave us very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u57	The number of 808 had escaped me. I have also apologized in advance in my first reply, so you do not have to respond so much. At 1.2 million employees, 808 is not that many. My question remains as to how one can check two months after the date on which someone has been working illegally for two months. That was easy to solve. We have indeed agreed to the extension of temporary unemployment. I have always said in committee that we support this. However, at least one modality would be adapted, especially in advance asking for planning from 1 July for all economic reasons, which would make it possible to check. That could be an argument, right? The catering, travel and events sector can in any case claim the extension after 1 September. As far as I'm concerned, that's all good. I have asked about the criteria on which the sectors are selected and you are responding with the number of temporary unemployed in a particular sector. You also said that the criterion still needs to be refined. Those first three sectors are therefore a preliminaries, regardless of the criterion that is not yet well-tuned. I would like to know whether the number is the absolute number of temporary unemployed or whether it is a certain ratio to a particular reference point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u58	That's the ministerial decision I have yet to make, and I'll take it when I have to take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u59	It is therefore not yet clear which criteria will be used, but there is already a reduction in three sectors. I am curious on the basis of which criteria these sectors have been selected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u60	There too, there will be criteria to see who is eligible and who is not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u61	We have now selected three sectors which are difficult, with which I agree, and afterwards we will define the criteria. Finally, you were angry with a number of colleagues. I also have the impression that you're angry with the king. I don't know if you've already expressed that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u62	I don't think you've ever seen me angry before, Mr. Anseuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u63	Then I praise myself, and so does the king.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u64	Madam President, Minister, I speak on my own behalf, but I fully understand it. I think you're right. It takes an average of two weeks for a legislative text voted on in the Belgian Official Journal to appear. I don't blame you for that. If that's how it happened, I certainly didn't mean to. You did what you could and had to do. You did that very quickly. I remember, in particular, that is the most important thing that you too have the will to find a solution, even though we know it will not be easy. We need to see if we can fix this, but we can't let the fine work we've done for all the mommies in the future be overshadowed. That's still the most important thing. Let's see what we can do. You've done what you had to do. Nice work has been done. I should like to conclude with that positive note.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u65	Of course. We started by saying that deadlines were deadlines. It was about the anticipation of retroactivity, but we know it's not always simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic215x.u66	I thank the minister and the colleagues.
