ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u2	First of all, I would like to inform the Chamber that we discussed the state of play regarding the corona crisis in the Conference of Presidents. The Conference considers that the work of the Chamber should continue, taking into account, of course, the directives issued by the government, which we follow from hour to hour. As far as the staff of the Chamber are concerned, we are in agreement with what is applicable to all members of the public office. I mean that, for example, working at home and following committee meetings via the livestream are allowed. One is not obliged to be physically present. There are sufficient possibilities to respect caution. We will cancel all visits from Monday. There are a lot of associations and schools visiting the Chamber and I think that this entails unnecessary risks. The monitoring of our work in the gallery is also suspended, except, of course, for the members of the press and the officials. It is important that I inform you of this, because the core task of the Chamber is, of course, parliamentary control of the government, and I believe that it should be safeguarded at all costs. Finally, I would like to point out that international contacts, such as foreign missions, have in principle all been cancelled, except where certain priorities apply. With regard to next week's work, only the meetings of the priority committees will take place. Maybe we'll see about that on Monday. This means that at the moment the meetings of the Committee on Finance and the Budget are certainly being maintained, and I am looking at the Minister for the Budget. The Court will have to give its opinion on the provisional appropriations in the next few days. Together with the Conference of Presidents, we are following the issue further. Should the government take additional measures, it goes without saying that we will comply with these measures. So much for my announcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u3	We shall now begin Question Time. Nor can it be other than that a lot of questions about the coronavirus act. On this point, the Conference of Presidents has agreed that all the groups that have tabled questions will, of course, be dealt with. I would also suggest that there should be some flexibility to allow questions to be dealt with not for two minutes but for three minutes. There is only one questioner, which combines the various aspects, such as health and economic impact, into one question. The government, which is well represented here with the Prime Minister and all the competent government members, will then respond. As regards the replies, it was agreed that it was not necessarily the questioner responsible for the reply. Someone else may therefore be referred to for the reply, which may not be one minute but one and a half minutes. There are a number of other questions, but only three of them do not relate to the corona crisis. They will be discussed afterwards. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u4	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I want to take advantage of this question to address my emotional thoughts to the first victims of coronavirus in our country, as well as to their loved ones. Secondly, I would like to thank you for the constructive work you have done in consultation with the federated entities as well as with the specialists, especially the virologists. In addition, I want to thank you for the common sense instructions that were issued to the population, which were essential. You understood that, despite the institutional complexity that you highlighted at the previous plenary session, it was nevertheless the federal responsibility to take action in the event of a pandemic. You also understand that we urgently need to slow down the spread of this virus in our country to avoid overloading our hospitals and, ultimately, ensure proper care for our patients. I must, however, regret a number of things in relation to the measures you have taken, but above all in relation to their follow-up. First, on Tuesday, you recommended prohibition measures since municipalities, provinces and regions remain competent to cancel certain events. However, some have taken the opportunity not to follow these recommendations, which has deliberately put our people at risk in order to politicize this crisis. I find this totally unacceptable. Secondly, according to figures from the World Health Organization (WHO), Belgium is now the first European country in terms of the speed of spread of the virus, with a rate that exceeds the 20 confirmed cases per million inhabitants. Thirdly, we still lack reagents. It's always coming to us from the ground. It shows that some hospitals get the results directly, while others have to wait several days, days that are crucial to the health crisis we are facing. Fourth, general practitioners and nurses still lack masks and detection equipment. Finally, doctors deplore that suspicious cases could not be dealt with simply because their last contact with a risk area was 14 days old, while the incubation period for some could be longer, up to 27 days. There's still a nuance between the two. As a result, the Prime Minister – I would point out that my questions were initially addressed to the Minister of Health – why did Belgium, as soon as the pandemic in China was announced, not acquire a strategic stock of masks? When will we have sufficient reagents? In the meantime, should we not isolate any symptomatic patient? With respect to incubation time, is it necessarily fourteen days or may it be longer? If so, will the patient have to wait for a decision from the doctor to terminate his confinement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u5	I would like to make it clear that the government is represented by all ministers who have some competence in this area. They're gonna split the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone that Belgium, and not only Belgium, is facing a huge challenge. That huge challenge creates uncertainty and fear. In these times of uncertainty and fear, there is also a point of light, namely the solidarity and resilience of our fellow countrymen. We have seen this before in the attacks in Brussels, and we are seeing this today. There is an incredible sense of responsibility for nursing and caring staff, for the local authorities. Cultural institutions decide to ban events in financially very difficult times themselves. Companies take measures themselves and place the health of their employees above profit. This solidarity and resilience is embedded in Belgian society and is unique to Belgium. The political world must embrace them more and support them better. That requires leadership. For the Ecolo Green Group, leadership does not begin to fantasize here in the gallery about what action should be taken now. I won't. I think we should leave this to experts. When experts ask to ban events, we forbid events. If experts ask us to close schools, we close schools. If experts ask for medical supplies, we do. Madam Prime Minister, I would ask you to follow these opinions and take these measures without delay, even if they are sometimes difficult measures. Exceptional circumstances require exceptional measures. Exceptional circumstances also require clarity. Unity of message, not a whole series of press conferences, not even a whole series of answers in Parliament today, but one message and one spokesperson. Unity of measures, everywhere the same measures in Belgium Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. The corona virus knows no language. The virus can affect seniors in Arlen, but also in Ostend. I want to make it very clear that you, Madam Prime Minister, are in charge of us. You're the boss for us. You will have that confidence from the Ecolo Green Group. You will have that confidence from the Belgian ministers. You will have that confidence from the Belgian mayors. Even though some find it difficult, the motto for the coming days and weeks is "L'union failure la force - Converging makes power." Madam Prime Minister, we'll give you a chance. Show leadership. Get some clarity. Only together can we cope with this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u7	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the coronavirus is expanding further. Since yesterday, we can officially talk about a pandemic. In the meantime, more than 300 people have already been infected in our country. Every day there is growing concern but also uncertainty. Firstly, I would like to express my respect for all the care personnel who, in these very difficult circumstances, ensure that the epidemic does not have any further spread. Madam Prime Minister, people are worried and have a lot of questions. It has already been said that clear guidelines and clear communication are needed at such a time. There must be a unit of command. This is certainly not the time for political games. Madam Prime Minister, that clarity is unfortunately not given today. People don't understand that one school closes and the other stays open. People don't understand that one retirement home closes faster than the other. However, the experts are very clear. The corona virus is here and will not disappear. All we can do is slow down the epidemic. We must therefore avoid a rapid peak and our hospitals facing a great many victims. That is why uniform and clear measures are needed. What instructions have been given to the hospitals at the moment? Why hasn't the federal contingency plan been announced? That creates the advantage of unity of command. If people can work at home today and have to work at home, why is this directive not clearly stated?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u8	Mr President, first of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my sincere condolences to the families and relatives of the first victims of the coronavirus. Prime Minister, my question will be divided into two parts. First of all, I will remind you that fear and panic are often very bad counselors. I have been repeating this since the beginning of this health crisis. Thus, since the appearance of the latter, we see a series of behaviors, which are neither ethical nor rational: purchases of panic, storage of products, speculation, etc. These behaviours include, in particular, products necessary to stop the spread of the disease. Hydro-alcoholic gels have seen their sales grow by more than 1,800 per cent in one month. Their price rose by more than 700% over the same period. The protective masks have also experienced this inflation. A trader recently explained in the press that he had dried up the European market to create a shortage of protective masks. The price of these masks has increased tenfold since the beginning of the crisis, while our general practitioners, our front-line agents, home nurses, the paramedical sector and the hospital sector are in dire need of them. Madam Prime Minister, it is unacceptable for speculation to occur in the context of a health crisis, such as that of VOCID-19. On this basis, the French President has recently taken measures: he has limited the 100 ml of hydro-alcoholic gel to 3 euros and has requisitioned the protective masks to reserve them to the healthcare staff. My questions are as follows. Are such leads under consideration? Are you going to use legal means? I am thinking in particular of books V and XVIII of the Code of Economic Law, the law of 22 January 1945 on economic regulation to stop these market failures. What is your response to today's speculation about the Coronavirus epidemic? Finally, I would like to announce that the PS Group will table a proposal for a law to address these issues, to combat speculation and to correct certain market failures in the event of a health crisis. Finally, Madam Minister, it was reported this morning that five million masks were coming to Belgium this Friday. I assume and hope that this arrival will enable us to properly equip our general practitioners, our nurses at home, the people who work in the paramedical sector, who are sorely lacking. I met them again this week. They're shouting an alarm, Madam Minister of Health. I hope they will be heard and equipped. In conclusion, I have just received a call for follow-up to a meeting with the governor of the province of Hainaut and all the mayors. The mayors are behind you, Madam Minister. What they are waiting for are clear measures for the country as a whole to stem the coronavirus epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u9	Madam Secretary, ever since the Corona virus hits our country, I keep hearing you say again and again that we should not worry and that it is just a flu. But the reality is different: corona is deadlier, more contagious and a completely different type of virus than the common flu virus. So yes, Madam Secretary, our people are worried, and rightly so. We too are concerned. We are concerned because the information we receive from you is very unclear. There's hardly any information coming and when she gets there, she's chaotic and incomplete. We are concerned because the signals we get from the healthcare sector are anything but reassuring: lack of masks and protective material, insufficient and incomplete information, insufficient testing material, insufficient breathing equipment. Not enough of everything! We are on our way to Italian conditions, where the hospitals cannot cope with the influx. The images from those hospitals are shocking and reminiscent of war zones. Madam Secretary, you're going to have 15 million dollars at your disposal to fight the corona virus and implement your plan. I have only one clear question and I hope that I will get a clear answer. Mrs. De Block, you say to the people, "Stay in your barn." It is time for you to finally get out of your barn: show us your plan! Madam Prime Minister, you like to turn it into an urban or municipal authority: the mayors should draw their plan. Maybe I should ask this question to my mayor and the city council, but when will you accept your responsibility? The Prime Minister also specifically asked you to start the federal phase. Where is your action plan to deal with this crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, we face a huge challenge. In Italy we see a taste of what it means when the corona virus really breaks out in a country. People have to stay inside, there are many deaths and the whole economy is also falling silent. Actually, the country's being shut down. As a political class, we face this challenge, but we must also be honest. Over the past year, we have seen a far from beautiful picture of politics. Politics has not succeeded in making a federal government in the Rue de la Loi for over a year, to create consensus on important measures for our society. The fact that we face challenges today is an opportunity for us as politicians to work together to find solutions in the uncertainty that people face. The worst thing we can do now is try to push the blackbird through, because that will really not get us there. Citizens expect from us clear and also united answers, the same communication across policy levels. The aid workers must now embark on a very difficult journey. If we follow very closely and implement the prevention measures of the government, we can avoid it getting as bad as in other countries. This means, however, that we must jointly defend these preventive measures. We simply need to keep a close eye on what is being said, without creating any more unnecessary unrest in our country. Economically, of course, this also has a lot of consequences. For example, for an independent entrepreneur who sees his order cancelled because of the still life, it is not evident. Fortunately, last week, the outgoing federal government submitted a number of measures that can really help. If things get farther out of hand, it will, of course, get worse and we will have to see what else we can do. Madam Prime Minister, first of all, I have questions about public health. A number of preventive measures have been communicated which have also been reviewed with the governors and mayors. Can we expect further measures today? Secondly, many commuters are also worried. We expect people to go to work and many workers use public transport. Measures are appropriate. What measures are being taken with regard to transport companies? Thirdly, what additional compensatory measures can be taken if the corona virus actually breaks out, as is the case in Italy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u11	Mr President, first of all, I would like to encourage all doctors and nurses, and all those working in the healthcare sector, who are in the front line in the fight against the coronavirus. I'd like to thank them for their commitment. Madam Minister, you have held dozens of meetings with the other ministers to see how we should combat the coronavirus. And what's the result? That people don't really understand anymore. At federal level, certain things are recommended, in certain regions they are prohibited, and in other regions they are restricted. What a lack of clarity, Madam Secretary! My first question is quite clear: when will you take clear and uniform measures in this corona crisis? My second question is, of course, about resources. It is clear that we will need more resources to fight this virus. Yesterday, the PVDA proposed an action plan based on the WHO guidelines, which provides resources for both prevention and hospital capacity. But what have we seen? Yesterday the vote on that budget was postponed, as if there were no urgency. I now address Minister De Block. As a general practitioner, I can tell you that the situation on the ground is very serious. It is very important to be able to test people who may have coronavirus to know if they are infected and to be able to take appropriate action. Two days ago, we were told that we were not able to carry out the tests because there was a shortage of raw materials and that, therefore, they were only reserved for priority cases. However, I received an offer from a laboratory to test a person who is not on the list of priority patients. The test is carried out at his expense and costs 45 euros. This means that there is a shortage of raw materials unless money can be put on the table. Some, who are thirsty for profit, are now using the anxiety of people associated with coronavirus. This is also the case in Flanders. There I have colleagues who get the proposal from labs to pay up to EUR 130 if they want to know the test result quickly. Minister, I know you're going to receive a lot of questions today. Mine is very clear: what are you going to do concretely to requisition the equipment to ensure that patients who need the coronavirus test can receive it, free of charge?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u12	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the coronavirus is in all the discussions, both in everyday life and in the press at the moment. Coronavirus is indeed a public health concern. In this regard, it is important that you regularly take stock of the situation, as you have already done. Minister Clarinval said that €15 million has already been released for the purchase of masks. The latter would be in the process of being transported. It is also legitimate to ask questions about the economic slowdown that will unfortunately result. Sectors are particularly affected, such as the travel sector, but this is not the only one. President Trump has just increased this issue further through his decisions. Colleagues, let us recall that action has been announced, as Minister Muylle and Minister Ducrame have taken various initiatives in this direction. Madam Prime Minister, unfortunately we have experienced the first deaths of people who have contracted coronavirus in our country. Our thoughts naturally and sincerely go to the families concerned. In this context, I was able to read that the precautions for the use of funeral staff are different and visibly stricter in France than in Belgium. Madam Prime Minister, can you give us assurances that exceptional budgetary measures will be taken in this context? What about the financial support Europe has announced? Have you consulted with the economic sectors concerned? Do you have any additional precautions regarding the care of funeral staff? Finally, we would like, because it is also important, to highlight the status of cross-border workers. It is also appropriate not to forget them in the current context. They are numerous in Belgium. Have you been able to talk to neighbouring countries to relax the limits of telework, which is currently limited to a maximum of 24 days? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we have been able to speak effectively of a coronapandemic, a global crisis. Where we initially thought that the measures taken by Italy were rather draconian, Trump also followed this morning with his ban on Europeans entering America. Denmark follows, Austria is following, the Netherlands follows, so it must not be so unhelpful. We are actually talking about three phases. Phase 1 is the preparation phase. That's the stage without corona patients that unfortunately is way behind us. We are now in phase 2, actually a reinforced phase 2, in which we are trying to avoid damage. My personal feeling is that we are unfortunately on the eve of phase 3, in which we will accept the virus and try to dive further damage. What happened the last two days? I'm speaking as mayor now. There are many colleagues of mine in the plenum. The day before yesterday, the mayors read in the newspapers that they now need to address the problem at local level. We are certainly prepared to do so if concrete measures are also provided for. A day later, a day after the announcement in the newspapers, we are invited to our governor's office. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior, De Crem, who has urged the governors to do so. We notice that there is a lot of uncertainty today: a dinner party in municipality A can still take place perfectly, while neighboring municipality B would cancel it. There's a new KB on emergency planning. That is an excellent procedure for a multidisciplinary approach. I have no question of the government, but an extremely urgent appeal today: activate your own KB emergency planning. Your own Risk Management Group supports it, too. He formally confirmed that to me. We need federal coordination today. This fits perfectly within our vision of the federal model. We also need unity of communication. After all, it's a bit of a shame to see this morning, which is the only negative thing I want to say today that our Minister for Security and Home Affairs is sending out a tweet that he's setting up a conference call with his own CD&V mayors. I wasn't comfortable with that as N-VA mayor. If this government decides to temporarily postpone all avoidable events, you will find an ally in all local governments. All the mayors will support that, but today our health system is in danger of being broken, resulting in the breakdown of care personnel. We are not going to tackle a global crisis locally. A virus does not stop at the border of Aalter or Saint Genesius-Red or Edegem. In the province of Antwerp, the unisono sounds on behalf of all the mayors: we want that federal phase. If that doesn't happen today, our governor, who performs her task perfectly, is willing to scale up to a provincial phase. Finally, we wish all policy makers, all patients, all caregivers and everyone facing this virus a great deal of courage, great success and strength in the coming very difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u14	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our duty and our job today is to do everything possible to avoid leading to the gravissim situation in Italy, where the health system is completely saturated and no longer allows for the proper treatment of patients suffering from coronavirus as well as all others. Indeed, let us recall, other diseases are not suspended during this pandemic. Italian doctors have to choose between 40-year-old and 60-year-old patients, whom they will have to put on artificial respirators due to lack of equipment. For weeks, I have urged your Minister of Health to act and not minimize the situation. The number of infected people you announce every day is obviously only – and unfortunately – the tip of the iceberg. This shows us how much we must and can act forcefully. Many people were not tested either because they were not symptomatic, because they did not have many symptoms, or simply because they did not get the test. Of course, hygiene measures must continue to be strongly recalled. Prime Minister, decisions were made this Tuesday after various consultation meetings. It is a pity that you have sent the hot potato back to the communes, who make decisions with variable geometry. The Regions also reported different measures. It is not in this way that we will achieve maximum efficiency. Our duty is to prevent this virus in an optimal manner. To do this, we need a unique pilotage. It is you, Madam Prime Minister, who must assume this responsibility. In this case, the sixth state reform is very clear: the federal government is competent to take all emergency measures when an acute pandemic spreads. That is now the case. Are the current provisions sufficient? The population has legitimate concerns and many questions. For example, is it necessary to control the main dispersal reservoir of schools, universities and crèches in order to curb the spread of the virus? The question is now very acute. Finally, I would like to remind you how much you must stand at the caretakers' bedside today. I have asked you and the Minister of Health enough about this. We're announcing ten million masks for tomorrow. Is that correct? We are promised EUR 15 million to deal with the crisis. At the same time, this afternoon was to be decided on an additional savings of EUR 48 million imposed on hospitals. This text is finally postponed. I hope that together, intelligently, we will find a solution. Let's remember: all these caregivers are on fire, showing unparalleled dedication. Together we will manage to control this pandemic!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, our group also wishes to express its condolences to the families of the first victims. I am not going to talk about the public health aspects, as our colleagues have already mentioned them in detail. Madam Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to express my respect for the clear way in which the coronavirus has been communicated and acted in the past. However, in recent days there has been no clarity as to the organisation of events, with or without more than a thousand attendees. The federal government decided to advise governors and mayors not to allow events in closed spaces with more than a thousand attendees. The whole sector of cultural and sporting events, as well as all our citizens, is entitled to a clear position from the government, just as many virologists seem to be allowed to put it on the screen and in the newspapers on a daily basis. In the meantime, may we think of moving insight? Today the Klara Festival will not start. Hundreds of artists, Bozar, the Kaaitheater, Flagey, De Singel in Antwerp, the Concertgebouw in Bruges, all were ready to welcome thousands of music lovers to a top event. However, they all want to take on their responsibilities and therefore close the doors. Over the next few days and weeks, we have hundreds of concerts, theatre plays, dance productions and dinner parties of voluntary organizations, all of which the organizers want to cancel everything to protect their audience and their artists. However, the federal government must provide certainty with binding measures. The organizers and artists as well as hundreds of small volunteer associations with, for example, planned dinner parties, barbecues, bike rides and walks risk bankruptcy today. After all, they can only invoke force majeure if you and the mayors stop giving permission. Do you want to avoid the end of dozens of organizers, orchestras, sports clubs, artists and voluntary organizations? Of course. They, the public and the artists, sponsors, organizers and volunteers, will all show respect for a clear position, namely the obligation to cancel all events and festivals. If necessary, you'll have to call in the federal contingency plan, say an ex-Governor. Can we assume that the government recognises that all decisions taken in times of pandemic are considered force majeure? What specific initiatives have you already taken and will you take with the government in the next few hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u16	I would remind you that the government will divide up the tasks. I give the floor to the Prime Minister. I also take into account the fact that Mrs De Block has to go to a European conference call at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u17	Mr President, allow me first of all to look at the families of the first Belgian victims of the coronavirus whose death was announced on Wednesday. On behalf of the Belgian Government, I offer our deepest sympathy. My thoughts also go out to the sick and their neighbors. Let me first of all have a thought for the families of the first Belgian victims of the coronavirus, whose death was announced this Wednesday. On behalf of the Belgian Government, I extend my deepest condolences to them. I would also like to have a thought for the sick and their loved ones. Colleagues, the authorities and medical staff are working hard to control the spread of the virus. As indicated earlier, the evolution of the situation is followed by our various services day after day and hour after hour, to ensure that the right decisions can be made as soon as necessary. Thus, we know that the situation is changing rapidly. The health situation a few days ago is not that of today, nor that of tomorrow. That is why a Risk Assessment Group was convened in the early afternoon. It will be followed by a Risk Management Group. As a reminder, these groups are formed and led by high-level experts in this field. I have taken the decision to convene the National Security Council at the end of the day to jointly analyse the recommendations and conclusions of these various bodies. I stress the word "together" because you know that the National Security Council is extended to the ministers-presidents of the different Regions and Communities. The National Security Council shall, if necessary, take action on the basis of the recommendations made by the scientific experts. Above all, they must be efficient and proportionate. The question of timing is also crucial, as the scientific experts believe, to prevent the spread of the virus. In the light of the evolution of the situation on the ground, it is certainly not excluded that additional measures should be taken to further delay the spread of the virus. The conclusions of the National Security Council will, of course, be communicated to the parliaments, the various authorities and also to the entire population. Some will question the relevance of a set of measures taken a few days ago, which should be completed today. This actually fits perfectly into the momentum set in place, namely that of monitoring in real time and providing the necessary answers when the time comes. It goes without saying that when the situation so requires, immediately and as provided by law, decisions must be taken at the national level in order to be immediately implemented throughout the country. A decision on this issue will be taken at the NSC at the end of the day with the Ministers-Presidents of the federated entities. In any case, we must together, all together, at all levels of power, ensure that the measures taken are implemented by all. As far as contacts with our European colleagues are concerned, of course, I have regular contacts with my Benelux colleagues to monitor the situation in our three countries. There are also contacts with other European leaders with the same aim. Tuesday in the late afternoon, a video conference was also held with the President of the European Council, the President of the European Commission and the Heads of State or Government of the 27 Member States. We have thus been able to identify four priorities: the fight against the spread of the virus, ensuring the availability of the necessary medical equipment, support for research and the management of the socio-economic consequences of the crisis. The European Commission has also announced that a coronavirus response investment fund will soon be created for the benefit of SMEs, the labour market and, more broadly, the most vulnerable parts of our economy, which are also suffering from the spread of the virus. Practical arrangements still need to be discussed. The European Commission has also been asked to allow flexible application of the rules on the Stability and Growth Pact. Closer to us now, I remind you that each and every one of us, at his level, can also help limit the spread of the virus by respecting simple rules. We say it and we repeat it and I think we'll never repeat it enough. Each of you must continue to do so. Wash your hands with soap and water regularly and respect a social distance. Greet without physical contact. If you are ill, stay at home, call your doctor and follow his instructions! I will also say it in Dutch, because it is important. Wash your hands regularly with soap and water, keep away from each other, greet each other without physical contact, stay home and call the doctor if you are ill and please follow his or her instructions. I can see how difficult the current situation is for many of us. If there is one moment when we must show our solidarity and solidarity and show that we are able to take responsibility together, then it is now. I will end with these simple words in both languages. Take care of yourself, take care of others. Take care of yourself and take good care of the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there are more people carrying the virus every day and more patients in hospitals and at home. That is why we have already taken measures in recent days to try to reduce the rate of spread of the virus. We also see that these measures are being taken in other countries. We just took them pretty early. This is necessary because we want to avoid putting too much pressure on our care providers in primary care but also in hospitals. If the virus is spread too quickly, the capacity of our hospitals will be under pressure. I would like to express my thanks for the commitment of everyone who is active in primary care, second-line care and at home. I'm also thinking about the people who are sick and the three who died. It is important to take a number of measures that have an impact on our social life and our daily lives, but I think we should show great solidarity in this. I would like to appeal to everyone's sense of citizenship and ask that these measures be respected by everyone. That can make the difference to the rate of spread of the virus. As you know, we always take action after recommendations and after a thorough analysis by the medical experts, the virologists, the epidemiologists and advice from the Risk Assessment Group, the Risk Management Group and the Scientific Committee. They continuously monitor the situation and are in constant contact with European institutions such as ECDC, WHO and other countries. Since yesterday, the WHO has said that we are all undergoing the COOVID-19 pandemic. We therefore have a very intensive cooperation with all levels of government in this country in order to harmonise all measures in the best possible way. Occasionally, as far as screening tests are concerned, home confinement should be used as much as possible. Hospitals only need to treat patients in need of greater medical care. House visits should also be avoided. A procedure has now been developed to enable a history and risk analysis to be carried out through telephone contact with patients of their own. Of course, adapted rules have also been forwarded to the doctors. As regards the lab tests, I should like to remind you, firstly, that in our country more tests are being carried out than in any other European country. In terms of number of tests per citizen, we are among the top. It is true that there is a worldwide lack of reagents. That is why we have now also equipped our labs with other machines and have engaged more labs in our country. The reference laboratory remains with the KUL, but other labs can also do the tests. Mrs Merckx, you're right. Private labs are also making quotes. However, RIZIV communicated very clearly on 9 March 2020. For all the labs that fall within the case definition, the patient shouldn't pay anything. Those tests shall be repaid in full. It is also about the labs that are checked in the reference lab. For labs outside the case definition, there is currently no nomenclature number. The RIZIV has therefore said that these invoices and accounts should be placed on hold. The patients concerned are therefore not allowed to pay those invoices. A regulation will also be drawn up for this purpose. That's not what it says, but it's what the RIZIV sent to all possible labs. You're quoting a few hijackers on the coast. I would just like to say that the RIZIV does know that something like this is happening, and so there is an appeal to the patients not to pay for it. Data collection for centralized epidemiological studies is carried out in Sciensano. I visited them yesterday with the King. As far as hospitals are concerned, the first hospital care takes place in the reference hospitals, but we also want a good distribution of patients across all our hospitals. We will therefore recommend this in the coming days. A greater spread among hospitals reduces the burden of capacity in the reference hospitals. The number of patients in hospitals is monitored daily: the severely ill, the patients on intensive care and those on a ventilator. With regard to the masks, I can inform you that the order is being processed. The 5 million masks ordered for the federal level and the 5 million masks ordered for the Communities and Defence will be delivered. We have drawn up a distribution plan which lists the use of human resources and resources for the distribution. The Agency shall carry out continuous monitoring of medicinal products and health products so that they can be adjusted immediately. That is what is being discussed every day. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also having a European conference call. The President of the Chamber will allow me to use his office. I would like to point out that there must be solidarity in our country between the different levels of competence and between all citizens, healthy or sick. We must protect our health professionals and also our vulnerable patients. Vulnerable are older people and people with chronic illness. As the Prime Minister said, we must take care of them. At European level, we must show that the European Community also shows solidarity. This virus does not only occur in one country, but in all European countries, even in all continents, everywhere. It is therefore a global issue which we must face and which we must all be very strong about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, the priority today is to do everything possible to combat the virus and to protect our people as effectively as possible. It is equally important to protect our companies and our jobs from the economic shock. This economic shock is certain to occur and the impact will certainly increase in the coming weeks. In recent days, a first series of economic measures have been taken to ensure that healthy businesses will not be impacted by this economic shock. The Council of Ministers has just taken a series of measures to help companies in need of liquidity. It was also decided to increase the replacement rate to 70% for workers faced, for example, with temporary unemployment. This will ensure that the financial impact for employees is taken into account as far as possible. Yesterday, in consultation with myself, the National Bank decided to release the countercyclical capital buffer to ensure that Belgian financial institutions can retain the credit to those companies that would be in financial difficulties. Recently, I also had contact with the Governor of the National Bank to ask him, on behalf of the government, to set up a core financial and economic group. The mandate of this core financial and economic group is divided into three phases. Firstly, the core group must keep its finger on the pulse and look at the problems facing Belgian companies. Secondly, the core group must analyse these problems. Thirdly, the core group should make proposals to the government on measures to help these companies as best as possible and avoid unnecessary job losses. Last night I also had discussions with Febelfin, the representatives of the financial sector. The banks have explicitly committed themselves to supporting Belgian companies as much as possible in a difficult economic period. Companies that feel an impact should contact banks or lenders to see what measures can be taken to get them through that difficult financial period. I am also in continuous contact with my fellow finance ministers at European level. There have been consultations and there will be more in the coming days to see what joint action can be taken in a coordinated manner. It is clear that the economic impact will have a domino effect throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that our country's economic model has a lot of automatic stabilisers and that our country has a lot of opportunities to absorb the impact of such economic shock. In addition to the necessary medical measures that we have taken and will continue to take, it is very clear to me that we will do everything we can to ensure that our companies do not go overboard and that people should not lose their jobs unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak here on matters relating to the civil service and the budget. For the Public Service, I decided this morning to issue a second circular that expands the measures announced on March 1. This new legislation strengthens measures to protect federal public servants and thus indirectly users from the risk of contracting coronavirus, while ensuring that public services are maintained. This circular, presented this morning to the unions, encourages and increases the possibilities of teleworking. It also strengthens the possibilities for service waivers while ensuring that the rules applicable in this case are clarified. In line with the NSC's recommendations, we encourage the telework of government personnel. The days provided at home – the allowed days of telework – will be immunized from the three-fifth rule over a year. The spread of timetables is also recommended in order to avoid as much as possible travel within public transport. The possibility that an official or an agent may have been in direct contact with a positive person in his or her private or professional sphere is also discussed. In this case, an exemption from service is granted for the day in order to allow him to contact his doctor. While waiting for diagnosis, telework will be allowed or, failing that, other tasks will be performed at home. If this is not possible, a service waiver will also be granted. These rules will apply to staff members who have been in direct contact with another staff member for whom there is a suspicion of detection of coronavirus attested by a doctor. On the budgetary front, we have discussed this subject at length in committee. It was decided, in particular, to set up a working group for an overall assessment, which would bring together Parliament, the government and also the administrations, in order to assess the overall impact on our economy. In the immediate future, we have already allocated EUR 15 million to the Public Health FPS for the acquisition of essential medical equipment, 10 million surgical masks and 1 million FFP2 masks. With regard to INAMI and in particular the hospital budget, an update will be carried out in June and, if necessary, the balance allocation will be used to supplement the needs. As a matter of extreme urgency, the government will in any case be able to prepare a budgetary deliberation for any urgent action. This is section 70 of the Act of 22 May 2003. We are therefore prepared to make up for any unforeseen additional demands. As things stand, these various measures, both for staff and for the budget, allow us to deal with the situation, which we will be able to re-evaluate without problems if the need arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u21	Mr President, the measures taken in relation to public policy are the result of measures taken by the Minister for Health on the basis of a number of recommendations. The measures taken the day before yesterday were appropriate measures, because we base ourselves on scientific advice. That scientific advice comes from the RMG, the response group, and also from a number of people in charge of the FPS Public Health. That is why we gave the appropriate answer and it was appropriate that mayors and governors were involved in the decision-making process. The night before yesterday, all the governors gathered at the suggestion of the Prime Minister and her government in Brussels. We discussed initiatives there to implement the measures proposed by the government. In the meantime, the governors have called the mayors together. Those meetings took place. Many of them are now calling for additional measures. Those additional measures as laid down in a Royal Decree of 2003 on emergency planning are now under investigation. It is quite clear that all the governors and all the mayors are now urged to take measures that would apply uniformly throughout the territory, for every city and for every municipality, and that would also be followed from the federal level. This proposal will probably be discussed very soon at the National Security Council, preceded by a meeting of the nuclear cabinet, after which we will, as required by the Royal Decree, inform governors and mayors, if we take these steps. I would like to thank everyone, the members of the government, including the Members of Parliament, the mayors and the governors, for moving in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u22	Mr President, I do not think there is any need for further explanation: the economic situation is serious. It was therefore very important to me that coordination remained very good in the last week. We held a good mini-debate on this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Many different initiatives have been taken in the task forces by colleagues from the regions. Its coordination is taken up by the chairman of the FPS Economy itself, because it is very important that we can share all our information from the different sectors, employers and employees. Everything about the consumer is also important. We play the ball briefly. We have almost daily contact with the insurance sector and with the travel sector. All questions about travel and refunds are supplemented by the FPS Economy in the form of questions and answers to the various websites. The info of the general website is also updated every day and kept à jour. As my colleagues have said, we have taken measures concerning temporary unemployment for economic reasons and cases of force majeure. The measure relating to temporary unemployment for force majeure was scheduled until 31 March 2020 and was extended by three months. As for unemployment benefit, we have increased the rate of temporary unemployment benefit. This is increased to 70 per cent. It's very important. As far as both measures are concerned, I would like to point out that my services and those of the RVA are doing their utmost to ensure that applications are made in a very smooth manner. A good week ago we had received applications from some 100 companies and some 1,500 employees in temporary unemployment, while today 6,762 workers were approved economic unemployment for a total of 366 companies. Today we are discussing the application of a further 324 companies, which is another good thing for more than 8,000 employees, both through economic unemployment and through force majeure. We try to deal with the files as quickly as possible, on a number of days, so that everything goes smoothly. I would like to make one more important point. There are a lot of questions about figures on economic unemployment and force majeure, but I want to be very clear. Companies today apply for, for example, economic unemployment for 60 or 80 employees. That does not mean that all these employees are also economically unemployed today. A lot of them are at work and are left home for a day, a few days or half-time. When a company makes an application for all its employees, it is also not the case that everyone comes home. Apart from the applications and the dossiers that have been approved, we will not see how many people have actually been paid unemployment benefits until the beginning of April, when we see the unemployment payments. That is an important nuance that we must make here, but I admit that the requests come in frequently. The last few days they even went up. My services are doing everything they can to ensure that they are handled smoothly, with the necessary flexibility, so that we can give the necessary economic guarantees, both to the workers and to the employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u23	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In order to maintain a balance with Parliament, I propose that we now turn to the replies. You know that the one who replicates must not necessarily be the same person as the questioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u24	Prime Minister, thank you and the various members of the government for your answers. I also thank you for your message of support to citizens, the medical profession, businesses and the self-employed. This is a very important gesture, as are the measures implementing this support. In addition, I thank you for an essential message, that each of us must take responsibility. Whether we are citizens, politicians, we all have our role to play in this crisis and we must protect each other. I will remember from all our interventions, regardless of our political or ideological tendencies, that we agree on at least one thing: if we want to slow down the spread of this virus and avoid being as extreme as Italy is in today, we must be able to take strong social measures that will prevail at all levels of power. I sincerely hope that the National Security Council will hear this appeal. I regret the response of the Minister of Health because she has shown a lack of anticipation regarding, among other things, equipment and, in particular, the lack of a strategic mask stock. Still, Madam Prime Minister, you can count on our support. However, I will call for greater clarity and unity in your messages and measurements. I want you to know that you can count on Parliament's support!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u25	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you can count on the support and collaboration of environmentalists. I think that in the face of the seriousness of the pandemic, opposition and the majority, this must no longer hold. I want everyone to understand it. We must act, Madam Prime Minister, rather than too little, rather too fast than too late. It is now that we must do it in a strong way. You have tools, up to the possibility of requisition. The message must be explicitly understood by all, in a unified and coordinated manner, with a line to be given by the federal state and to be followed by all entities in that country. The urgency requires that we work in this direction. We need leadership, leadership, resources, too. Are the current 15 million on the basis of the interdepartmental provision sufficient? That is a question we are asking ourselves. I would like to draw attention, in this reply, to the most fragile that must be taken into account in the management of this pandemic. It is, of course, the elders, the ones who must be protected by avoiding or limiting the spread of the pandemic; it is the people who are somewhat forgotten in closed centres; people without fixed homes, including those who are now in prisons; and, above all, the first line: doctors, nurses, but also dentists who today do not have the equipment to protect themselves and their patients. You know, it's an emergency for us. We are really asking you for appropriate means to protect grandparents next week, if schools close and care solutions for children need to be found. It will also be necessary to allow workers to have working conditions adapted to this situation, which requires the mobilization of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are following the situation closely and that you are convening the National Security Council. I think this is also what people expect us to play briefly at the ball. However, I would like to repeat my message here. This situation does not require political games. In particular, it is necessary to clarify the situation for the people. When people are afraid, they need clear guidelines. As I said before, they do not understand why one is allowed and the other is not. These clear measures must be well coordinated. That's why I don't understand why the federal contingency plan isn't announced. We have a federal contingency plan that will ensure that we are prepared when a crisis occurs. That crisis is there and I have not received an answer from you as to why you do not choose to announce the federal emergency plan today. I look forward to hearing the real reason why you don't think this is necessary. One says that people should stay at home when they feel sick, while the other calls for them to stay at home if they can. You rightly said that the individual responsibility lies with the people to stop kissing each other and to wash their hands. I tried to give the chairman a Wuhangroot this morning. He didn't quite get it yet and stomped me, but he will. It is important that the right guidelines are communicated and appropriate measures taken so that everyone can ensure that the epidemic is slowed down and that no more victims are killed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u27	Thank you, Mr Kitir, for your reply and for your comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u28	Prime Minister, when I heard your government's plural response, I couldn't help but think about the health care staff who continue to work. These women and men, on a daily basis, work under very complicated conditions because of this crisis of the VOCID-19 and, unfortunately, also suffer from the government's lack of predictability. You reminded him: five million masks will arrive on Friday. Do you have an allocation plan? How will these masks be distributed? We don't know. When will the complementary measures be taken? When will the masks come to replace those five million, because they won't be enough? Since the beginning of the crisis, I tell you, we need more than ever a single command, a pilot, in this case, to manage this crisis. That is why the Socialist Group calls on this government to take real action. You can no longer carry the burden and responsibility on cities and municipalities. You must take the full steps to avoid artistic blur, sometimes with mayors who make drastic decisions and others who are much more lax. I heard the National Security Council was meeting this afternoon. I hope that from this meeting there will be real measures that will be known and recognised whether we are in Eupen, Ghent, Brussels or Mons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u29	Madam Secretary, it is clear to me that there is not really a plan. I heard Mrs Kitir ask where your plan is and why it is not coming into force. In my view, there is simply no plan, or at least it is not sufficiently worked out. The fact that there is not enough protective equipment is the best example of this. The troubles don't solve until they rise is patchwork from a bad plumber. Madam Secretary, we expect better from you. Moreover, I am stunned about what you and some in the hemisphere think is the solution. The solution is to re-federalise public health. I am shocked when I hear so-called progressive politicians suggest such a primally conservative solution. Instead of modernising this ungovernable state by making the Länder stronger, you go back 20, 30 to even 100 years in time and argue for a re-federalisation. Apparently, some people want to abuse the crisis to strengthen the Belgique à daddy, or how one virus supports the other. A federal prime minister, a federal minister or a federal minister of health who does not dare to take firm measures is the best proof that the solution is not to refederalise, but rather to defederalise. Strong decisions and unambiguous measures can only be taken if the powers lie with one Flemish minister. A country that can only be saved by a pandemic is not worth saving. So don't worry about saving the country, be involved in saving and protecting our people. Flemish Interest wants to help you. We have a Facebook page with over half a million followers. You may use it to streamline your communication with the population. That is not the case. Madam Secretary, it's up to you to accept our offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u30	Madam Prime Minister, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear that, over the next few hours and days, more precise measures may need to be taken. I understand that further discussions will take place this afternoon and that they will be communicated in the aftermath. I believe that, as politicians, we have a joint responsibility to communicate accurately, to make the right decisions, and that this is what is happening. Citizens have already understood some things. We can not give each other any more hands but find new ways of greeting each other, as Mrs Kitir suggested earlier, but we can take it creatively, but I think that the seriousness has really got through to the people. Until the day before yesterday, that was not the case. The population is being sensitized and has understood since yesterday that the situation at this stage has become more serious and that we must take this into account in order to continue this phase. However, I do not think there is any point in politicians arguing about these measures among themselves. Whether it is better with eight competent ministers or one is a very interesting theoretical discussion, but I think that we need, above all, a clear policy and a clear communication. I know, Madam Prime Minister, that you are doing your best with your ministers. Pass the necessary instructions to the governors. If they need to be adapted, explain why they need to be changed. We must not panic unnecessarily, but take the necessary measures accurately at a stage-by-stage. As citizens, we must follow them up and support them together. This is how we tackle the crisis, united with politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u31	First of all, Madam Prime Minister, allow me to thank and congratulate all of this front-line, second-line medical staff, nurses, all of these doctors who are fighting the disease every day. We can applaud them here. Respect for the work you do! I have two important points to make. The first concerns communication. What a cacophony in communication! A minister recommends certain things. Another forbids it. Another one is discouraging. We can't find ourselves there anymore! That's not possible! People want clear communication. How is it possible that there is no more critical mind? How can nine other ministers make such a silly decision? A virus doesn't stop at the language line. There are nine ministers and some parties want more. Come on. Such decisions need to be brought back. There must be clear communication instead of coming up with such silly decisions. I come to the second point, Madam Prime Minister. People's health must go before profit and business! People's health is important! Today, the Minister of Health confirms that, in the spirit, not all these laboratories have the right to overbill. Our doctors who practice in Medicine for the People have collected six testimonies that indicate that private laboratories are asking for 75 to 130 euros more, thus benefiting from the fear of people. This thirst for profit is outrageous! The public authority must intervene. I brought these testimonies here. The Minister of Health stated that this was not really the goal. Colleagues, the public authorities must intervene. It is unacceptable to take money from people's pockets so as not to cure them. Profit must come after health!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u32	Mr. Chairman, Madam Prime Minister, thank you and the members of your government for your answers. It is indeed essential, at this moment of pandemic and in this context, to take all necessary measures, keeping, at every moment in this crisis, as you have said, a serenity and above all a sense of responsibility. Thank you for that! In this respect, I would like to highlight the remarkable mobilization of all stakeholders in the health care sector, but also the civicism of our citizens, who are also involved in the collective effort. We must encourage them to continue this effort to stem this pandemic as soon as possible. As you said, Madam Prime Minister, the situation is constantly changing and the management of the time line, in this crisis, is crucial. We look forward to the ongoing assessment of the National Security Council that you are meeting to take appropriate action at the appropriate time. I hear your voluntarism. I hear the voluntarism of other ministers to help businesses, workers, SMEs and citizens. Let us go further, faster, stronger because telework, to take this example, and in this case that of cross-borders, must not – while it is a matter of common sense at the moment – turn against them taxably. Colleagues, beyond partisan or other considerations, health – yes, Mr Hedebouw! – of our fellow citizens is of course the priority and the first priority of the moment. It's obvious! And this must be done – I solemnly say to you, Mr Hedebouw – without sterile political division because, more than ever before, in the face of this virus and its expansion: "Eendracht maakt macht, Union is strength!"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a great deal of good will and also a few good measures. Nevertheless, I should like to warn you. What we should not do is bring a good news show on the cover of our sick. I would much rather talk about measures and an approach. My colleague Frieda Gijbels and I have been working on the corona outbreak for weeks. For weeks now, we have been bringing points of interest to the Committee on Health in a scientific way. However, we have felt number. We are very pleased that you have accepted our recommendations. We are very happy that the mouth masks have been ordered and will arrive. We now hope that they will reach the care providers and that they will end up with the people they need and in the first line with our sick. Also positive is that last night I don't know why it was last night the hospitals have heard where they can order the mouth masks. That too has taken a long time. We have been working very seriously on the corona crisis for two weeks now. Since last night, however, hospitals know that they can order mouth masks and where they can order them. I have a tip for you, please take the professional associations with you. After all, they called me this morning. Thank God the dentists have now been able to order mouth masks. I'll put that aside. Minister De Block mentioned the test material and the fact that we would test much more in Belgium than in other countries. I don't know where she gets her intel, but the intel we get from the world monitors tells us something else. That intel says we're testing less. That's what we hear from the doctors. The speaker of the PTB pointed out that these tests are expensive. Colleague, you must inform your doctors. I know labs where the test costs only 29 euros, which is almost half. I also have a tip for you. There are also self-tests, so that the doctor can be tested perfectly. Madam Minister, yesterday in the Committee on Finance it was decided to set up a working group. I invite you to show your strength and do your job. Politics is making choices and taking care of the people. I am counting on the government for that and we want to be a partner for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u34	Minister, do not panic, do not minimize but act. I take it from your remarks that the decision on a single federal pilotage will be taken shortly. I hope so and we will support you on this point. This seems to me all the more crucial as we have just learned that the town of Knokke had decided to quarantine itself. As we discuss here and call for coherence, from one municipality to another, there are decisions with variable geometry. This is not how patients and the public will be convinced to follow the measures decided to stop the virus. Let me insist that measures be strengthened to stop the virus. They will still be adapted today, which seems crucial to me. As far as health is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the need to increase anticipation for the front line and for hospitals. It is time to set up a reserve on the part of doctors and nurses with pensioners and those exercising outside active practice. It is also time, at European level, to be able to avoid the requisitions of health workers in the countries around us that would harm the staff of our hospitals, for example for the French working in the provinces of Luxembourg and Hainaut. Finally, measures to support the self-employed and SMEs have been taken and that is so much better. I will remind you that action for patients and caregivers must remain the priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u35	Thank you, members of the government, for your joint and individual commitment. That has been clearly demonstrated here, and that can also be said once and for all. Today we are thinking first and foremost of the sick, of the weak in our society, of the citizens who, whether temporarily or temporarily, are at risk of losing their jobs. We will help to respond with solidarity to the recommendations of the National Security Council. In this context, the CD&V Group supports the request of the Prime Minister of Flanders to start the federal phase now. The CD&V Group also calls for support from the European Union Solidarity Fund to go first to the victims. Finally, much strength and already much thanks to all the aid workers. Madam Prime Minister, you can undoubtedly count on the solidarity of everyone in this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u36	Madam Prime Minister, members of the government, thank you for taking part in this topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u37	Mr President, Minister, yesterday we discussed expenditure on provisional appropriations in the Committee on Finance. The sp.a has always shown a constructive attitude in recent months. I'd like to talk about income. We must also talk about this, even though there are some colleagues who do not want to talk about income in these times. Revenue is also part of the budget. On this point, too, we want to take a constructive stance, Minister. Today I want to talk about two facts that have been reported by the media. Firstly, our nominal tax revenue, i.e. revenue from, among other things, personal and corporate tax, fell in real terms in 2019 compared to 2018: EUR 1 billion less. In doing so, we are more than EUR 3 billion lower than the estimates made by the then Finance Minister. I'll come back to that later. The second fact is that I do not have to explain this to you, Minister, that such a reduction is truly exceptional. We have seen this twice in 50 years. In 2009, there was an external cause, namely the banking crisis and financial crisis of 2008. In 2019 this is not due to an external factor, but to the deliberate policy of the Swedish coalition back then. This consisted of tricks on the advance payment of corporation tax in 2017 and 2018 to smash up the budget and, above all, Mr Minister, from the unfunded tax shift. I assume that, except for a former finance minister who looks like comical Ali, now everyone accepts and acknowledges that the tax shift is not funded. The result is a gap in revenue and a gap in the budget. Tax revenue has been deliberately overestimated. The budget is knowingly 'false', despite the warnings of Mr Van Rompuy, among others. Mr Minister, my question is simple and clear. Do you recognise that tax revenue was deliberately overrated in 2019 and that the population and Parliament were lied to in relation to the tax shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u38	Mr Bertels, I would like to start by mentioning a few figures, which you do not raise in your question. Over the period 2015-2019, the tax burden in our country decreased by 2%. Over the same period, government seizures decreased by 2.1 %. These are not my figures, but the figures of the European Commission. The reduction in the tax burden has therefore been largely offset by the fact that the government also spends less. In the area of public property, our country is still ranked third in Europe, after Finland and France. Three elements play an important role in reducing tax revenues. First, indeed, in 2017-2018 there was a sharp increase in advance payments. The corporate tax was reformed because companies actually financed themselves cheaply on the back of the government. My colleague Van Overtveldt then took a good step. It was not a budgetary measure, it was just a good one. As a result, the advance payments increased very strongly in 2017 and 2018. The downside is that the kohiers have fallen, a temporary effect that will fully recover next year. Secondly, the final phase of the tax shift indeed took place last year. The tax shift has led to a rise in net wages, mainly in low wages and in middle wages. I would think that would be a good thing for you. Again, the figures of the European Commission indicate very well that the tax reduction has been compensated by a reduction in public debt. Thirdly, we are in a situation of weakening economic conditions. People also got their money back from the IRS faster. I would like to point out that the figures you are raising are due to one-off factors. Mr Bertels, I can see another element in your question. If tax pressure drops, you seem to find that a problem. I think that in a country such as Belgium, which has the third highest tax burden in Europe, is a good thing. That is where we differ. Hopefully that's still okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u39	Mr. Secretary, I expected you to be a little more serious. Tax pressure's dropping. We are also in favour of reducing the tax burden, but for the people who work for it. You yourself quoted the figures of the National Bank. You must be complete. Where did the money from the tax shift go? To the dividends and profits of the companies. Where did the net wage increase go? To the increased invoices, which more or less compensate for the net wage increase. People have to pay more with the more money they've got. Let's be serious. I'm looking at the N-VA colleagues. Their chairman says very clearly that he wants to apply the theory of rigid the beast: lower taxes and less income and then save on social security. It is very clear to the Socialists. With us it will not be true, with us pensions and sickness benefits will not be reduced in order to finance the gifts you hand out to the large multinationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u40	Minister, I come directly from the Greek-Turkish border, and I can only advise you, Minister De Block and Minister Goffin to take a look at the area myself. I spoke with the commander-in-chief of the army, with the commander of the border police and with a lot of civilians and mayors. They all have a very clear message for us: they feel abandoned by Europe. Hotel owners and catering operators have had no customers for years, farmers are no longer allowed on their land, fishermen are no longer allowed on the water. Families see their dreams go up in smoke and their income dry up. The soldiers and agents who guard the Greek border are also guarding our border, but while they are crowned with incendiary bombs and stones, we have turned our backs on the Greeks by once again giving bags of money to fraudster Erdogan. I've seen CCTV footage, I've heard hard numbers, and I've even been face-to-face with the illegal migrants at the border. You need to know a few things about that. First of all, they're not refugees. Less than 4% of illegal migrants are Syrian. Most of them come from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Somalia. Nor are they defenceless women and children, as our media is all too happy to show off. They are aggressive men of'military' age who are violently trying to force a hostile invasion. Above all, it is not a spontaneous migration flow. It's an invasion organized by Erdogan. The commander-in-chief of the Greek army showed me footage of how the Turkish army and the Turkish police supplied the illegal migrants with weapons and how they helped them break the border fence. The general also showed me that Erdogan is building new migrant camps near the border which he can soon use as barracks in what he himself calls a religious war against Europe. Minister, it may not be the type where two armies openly fight each other with weapons, but the situation on the Greek-Turkish border cannot be described by any other word than with war. So my question is simple: are you going to deploy the army at the Greek border?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u41	I will talk first about a number of other matters before I will talk about the commitment of the Belgian army to the Turkish-Greek border. On 4 March an extraordinary Justice and Home Affairs Council took place to discuss and address the situation at the Turkish-Greek border. There the European Union has expressed its solidarity with Greece in a number of clear terms. It has also announced a number of concrete measures to assist the Greek authorities. The European Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex has launched two rapid border interventions. As a result, both the maritime and land borders between Greece and Turkey remain closed. In concrete terms, a hundred additional agents are deployed to secure the border and facilitate the return of people who do not have the right to international protection. In addition, additional material is also made available. The Commission will immediately release EUR 350 million for Greece for integrated management of external borders and migration management. In addition, a proposal is being made to release a further 350 million. The European Asylum Agency will be strengthened in Greece by 160 agents to assist the country in the processing of the questions. Belgium has not yet received a specific question on this issue, nor has it received a specific question of contribution. If this question were to come, Belgium would be prepared to look at it. The Civil Protection Mechanism is also used to ensure that sufficient first aid is available. Belgium has already made a material contribution to this by means of B-FAST. A new meeting of the Ministers for the Interior and Justice will take place tomorrow. A new state of affairs on the external borders is being examined. Through our determination, we have managed to ensure that Greece has all the means and means to monitor the external borders of the European Union. I also spoke about this with Prime Minister Mitsotakis of Greece. He has much more to say in the file than the people you have met in Greece.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u42	What you are saying, Minister, is a shocking arrogance. You say that some people with whom you have met, who apparently have not been on the premises, would know better than the border guards themselves, the policemen and soldiers who stand there every day and guard the border, than the generals who command there. You are talking about Frontex, but that is not visible there at the border posts that we see every day in the news. Where the police and the army of Greece are crowned with incendiary bombs, where the Turkish police and the army help to destroy the border, Frontex is nowhere to be seen. I hope that the help you promise will come someday. I'm afraid so, because Belgium is a failed state. Just as we cannot predict the consequences of the coronavirus because the measures are going to take place far too slowly, we do not seem to be aware of the consequences of a new migration crisis, a new migration invasion. I hope that you will all take a look on the ground too, then perhaps we will react a little less naive and strangely worldly to the migration invasion that awaits us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I have learned, through an article published by De Standaard, that the ViCLAS system, introduced by the federal government in 2003, which is supposed to be effective and allows for the identification of perpetrators of acts of morality outside the private sphere, is very little used by the police zones while they are at the forefront of the reception of victims of sexual violence. The frustrations they must suffer if, unfortunately, the complaints they file do not succeed, must be taken seriously by the federal government. You have done so with your colleague, the Minister of Justice, by taking a circular to remind the areas that they must use this instrument. Minister, why is this platform so little used by the areas? Is it because of a lack of information, staff, enthusiasm or interest? Could you also remind us of the contents of this circular?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the ViCLAS (Violent Crime Linkage Analysis System) is a federal police database in which acts of morality are recorded. It collects, in every detail, data on sexual and violent offences. They may include striking characteristics about the perpetrator, certain acts, means used or the environment in which the crime was committed. The ViCLAS system is highly dependent on statements made to the local police. In the past, it has been found that his diet and the transmission of information were insufficient, which is why the Minister of Justice and I took on our responsibilities and issued a circular to the prosecutors' offices and police areas. It clearly explains how to improve the transmission of information and requires services to feed and use the ViCLAS system within their areas of competence. This obligation will make it possible to establish more links between the various crimes of sexual violence and to track perpetrators more quickly and effectively. With regard to the use of the police capacity available in the context of judicial missions and therefore also in the context of food and the use of this database, there is provision for permanent consultation between the judiciary and the police. At the federal level, this consultation is carried out through the Justipol Advisory Body, where the College of Attorneys General and the Police meet to make the necessary adjustments, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u45	Thank you very much for that clarification, Minister, and for supporting the content of this circular. It is recognized that at the federal level the instruments exist, are implemented and that the necessary collaborations at the level of the various federal public services are in place and functioning. It must also be noted that there is still room for improvement at the local and police levels. I hear the efforts you are making to make them aware of this, but we must take all our responsibilities, they were municipalists, so that this instrument can be used properly. You can count on me, in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the Central Economic Council has just finalized its technical report on the evolution of wage costs. The figures are without appeal and demonstrate the injustice of your government's policy. Contrary to what he and the employers indicate, wages in Belgium are not higher than wages in France, the Netherlands and Germany. On the contrary, if we take into account all the reductions in social contributions, Belgian workers are paid 4.7% less than those of our neighbours. That's the price of your policy. After an index jump that has already fattled workers on average 400 euros a year and a shift tax that has increased taxes to increase shareholders' profits, today we learn that for 2017 and 2018, wages in Belgium should have increased by 2% in addition to indexing. However, you have prevented social consultation and prohibited increases of more than 1.1%. In concrete terms, this means a new loss for workers of 200 euros on average per year. The worst thing is that with the 1996 law that your government amended, these 200 euros could not be returned to workers for the years to come. Minister, this is truly unfair. What is your reaction to these new figures from the Central Economic Council? Are you finally going to change your shoulder rifle to stand on the side of the workers? Will you finally support us to go back to the 1996 law and allow social consultation to raise wages?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u47	Mr President, Minister, a study has just been published by the Central Council for Business in which it is shown that there is no longer a wage handicap compared to the surrounding countries. More importantly, it is also shown that the wage standard that served as the basis for concluding the interprofessional agreement 2019 was wrongly calculated. This wage standard is the result of the 1996 Law, which restricted free negotiations. In 2017, that law was still intertwined by this government. All the right-wing parties voted in favour of this tightening up and thus in favour of the employees losing their wages, including the Flemish Interest. That wage standard was therefore miscalculated. Initially 1.1 % was reached and it now appears to be about 2 %. In fact, we have seen the same thing for 20 years, because successive governments have taken measures to limit or prevent wage increases. As a result, real average wages in Belgium continued to fall. Wage shares in gross national product have also fallen in favour of capital income, i.e. profits of multinational companies and wealthy shareholders. In other words, this government's bilan is more money for those who already have it, the rich shareholders and the multinationals, and less pay for the workers. After all this right-wing policy of wage moderation, index jump and wage freeze, workers are now also victims of the miscalculation of the wage standard. Madam Secretary, my question is very simple. Are you prepared to rectify the situation and bring the wage standard to 2%? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u48	Colleagues, the social partners of the Central Business Council have adopted their interim report on wage costs and published it today. It is found that the wage margin has been respected, and that the handicap compared with 1996 is likely to be at 1.1%. Wage developments were lower by 1% than in neighbouring countries during the period 1996-2020. The mechanism of the law provides that by means of a reserved part to reduce the historical handicap, prior to 1996, it can be added to the margin resulting from the wage increase in neighbouring countries in 2021 and 2022. The exact scope of this margin will be determined by the next technical report. Ladies and gentlemen, what can we conclude from this? The law has made sure that the evolution of labour costs can no longer derail, while automatic indexation and barren increases are guaranteed anyway. The gradual wage evolution resulting from this has also contributed to strong employment growth, which we can observe to this day. The wage standard did not prevent the conclusion of many sectoral agreements and did not prevent us from experiencing a relative period of social peace. I thank the social partners for their sense of responsibility. The social partners of the CRB have asked me to present the technical report. Of course, I have taken that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u49	Madam Minister, it is a little easy to cut you behind the social partners when we know that the 1.1 % margin has not been accepted and that this has been a constraint for sectoral negotiations and for companies. There is no longer any freedom of negotiation in this country. All the measures that have been taken have been based on the wishes of the companies and certainly not with attention for the workers. I hope that you will have heard the message and that there will be 0.9% to have to recover, which is rightfully the responsibility of the workers, and that the margin for 2021-2022 will take over these elements. It will not be necessary to try to say that there will be only 0.4% because of a so-called wage handicap, which no longer exists today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u50	Madam Minister, I have listened carefully to you, but you have not actually answered my questions. You didn't go into the heart of the matter. This new study by the Central Council for Business effectively says that there was a miscalculation of the wage standard. This means that employees will miss 0.9% of their pay in 2019-2020. The right-wing parties had the courage in 2015 to set an index jump for all employees, resulting in a cumulative purchasing power loss of 2% that will drag people to the end of their careers. This is, of course, easy for politicians who earn 6,000 euros. I suggest that they do the opposite, and compensate for that wrong calculation by an index increase of 0.9 %. Immediately, for all the wages of working people in this country. There's been a big hold-up. There has been a transfer of EUR 10 billion; 2.35% of the share of wages has been reduced in favour of the share of profits. It is urgent that the people who create prosperity in this country should again receive a fair share of the wealth they have produced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u51	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u52	In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents and at the request of the government, I propose to postpone the third item to the plenary session on 19 March 2020: - the draft law on the implementation of savings measures relating to proprietary medicinal products in the framework of the health care budget 2020, Nos. 1005/1 to 4. In line with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents and at the request of the government, I propose that the third point be postponed to the plenary session on 19 March 2020: - the draft law implementing the savings measures for proprietary medicinal products under the 2020 health care budget, Nos 1005/1 to 4. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u53	Mr President, as you see, amendments have been tabled today, including by our group, with regard to the legislative proposal No. 158 to facilitate the conditions for termination of pregnancy (item 7 of the agenda). This proposal is an important one, and I think we should discuss it very thoroughly, on the basis of all the opinions that may be available. That is why I am asking for the opinion of the Council of State on all the amendments that have been tabled today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u54	Does anyone want to speak on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u55	Mr President, I note that a number of amendments have been tabled, not only by Mr Verherstraeten, but also by other colleagues. I would like us to have at least one explanation of the reasons for referral to the Council of State. I do not expect Mr Verherstraeten and other colleagues to make a detailed statement, but at least to explain to us the content of these amendments, for which reference is requested to the Council of State, in order to enable us to assess the reasons for or not referral to the Council of State. The question which I am asking, and which I hope will be answered by it, obviously does not exhaust the will of my group to be able to speak in the context of the exchanges which we have and which have indeed been supervised by the Conference of Presidents. But I hope that my question can be answered first, if you will. Can those who are tabling amendments make themselves available to Parliament, that we can hear them on the justification of their amendments and, above all, why they are asking for referral back to the Council of State? I repeat: there is not only the CD&V Group which is tabling amendments. Other groups do. I would also like, if possible, an explanation from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u56	Mrs Jiroflée, would you also like to take the floor, or is this the other motion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u57	It is indeed about the procedure. I agree with Mr Laaouej. We would like to know why Mr Verherstraeten is tabling these amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u58	Mr President, I would like to join the request made by my colleagues to know what the real purpose of sending these amendments to the Council of State is. I see that they relate either to aspects that have already been decided by the opinion he gave, which was quite clear, with regard to our bill passed at second reading in committee, or to questions of morality. However, the competence of the legislative section of the Council of State does not consist in deciding on such matters, but rather in verifying the conformity of a bill with higher standards. The Council of State has already delivered an opinion. I would therefore like to know what the added value of what you are now asking for would really be. In doing so, I would like to see respect for the role of the Council of State as an institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u59	Are there any other colleagues who would like to take the floor? [[No.]] Then I give the floor to Mr Verherstraeten to answer the question he was asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not customary to present amendments in response to an opinion from the Council of State. I hope that this will not be seen as a precedent, but I would like answers. I am speaking on behalf of my group. Firstly, the amendments that we have tabled do not have the ambition that some might attach to them, namely to reduce abortion legislation, as it has been up to now. On the contrary, they even have the ambition to protect the position of the woman involved even more. Secondly, I hear from one of my fellow Members that this is purely a matter of morality. Of course, it is a matter of morality, but it is also a legal matter. We have had regular discussions in committee, including on criminality. You know that our group is particularly concerned if the criminality of those who carry out abortions outside the rules as we would lay down in this Chamber is removed. It is therefore also a legal matter. More, I refer to the opinion of the Council of State, which, with regard to criminality, including those who would prevent abortion, has formulated very critical comments on the text as it has now been libelated and approved in committee. It is therefore also a legal matter, and we are suggesting that this opinion should be taken into account. Finally, it is also a social matter. Abortion must be possible, abortion is possible, as far as we are concerned, abortion may continue to be possible, but we do consider the problem of the repeated execution of abortions by the same women in our country. These ladies deserve support. They deserve help. They deserve more information, information that is now less. It has always been our ambition and it will always be our ambition to evaluate this regulation, now and also tomorrow, to prevent or resolve problematic family situations where possible. For this we make suggestions which are not contained in this regulation, as approved by the committee. This issue is socially relevant. The discussions in committee also confirm that. I also think that the detailed amendments are more than 36 pages, we have worked on them and deserve the attention of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u61	I would like to remind the Chamber that we are merely discussing the question of sending it to the Council of State. We are not having the debate on the substance. In the context of the Rules of Procedure, anyone who wishes to do so, in particular one Member per political group, will have the floor. So we will not exhaust the debate. The substance of the matter is, after all, the last item on the agenda for today. Under the Rules of Procedure, we will only vote on the request for referral to the Council of State. So we are not going to have a debate on the substance! I can only read the Rules of Procedure. That's conscience. Only one member per group may speak. As speakers, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Rohonyi, Mrs Merckx, Mrs Tillieux, Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Schlitz have been registered. I shall close the list of speakers and am therefore very generous in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in this bill we are in favour of decriminalisation, but we are opposed to the extension to 18 weeks of conception (i.e. 20 weeks of amenorrhea and 5 months of pregnancy), both for women and for the foetus. Some said that the debate had been reviewed, that everything had been said and that the Council of State had already been consulted. Let me remind you that we ourselves, in its time, asked for the opinion of the Council of State. We had already wanted to send certain aspects to the Council of State. At the end of the committee meeting, the next day or the next day, the Chairman decided to do so. It is a pity that we were not able to send amendments to the Council of State when you decided to send this text, without taking into account the important issues that we had put on the table during the debates. Rather than responding to the arguments, discussions on these key issues could not have been conducted. You are asking us for the amendments. I think they have now been distributed. You are asking us to justify the content of the amendments sent to the Council of State. These amendments concern first and foremost the consequences of your choice to extend the legal deadline for abortion without medical reasons to twenty weeks of amenorrhea. With this decision, you open the door to the possibility of abortion on the basis of the sex of the foetus and therefore of gender selection, while other legislation, including legislation on medically assisted reproduction, specifically prohibits any gender selection. That was something we had discussed but we had not really had a debate on. Two of our amendments deal with this issue. We also submit an amendment on what many obstetricians have pointed out, namely the higher risks for women, and on how, in the case of late abortion, care must be carried out in order to take full account of the risks to women's health. We also have two other amendments dealing with a change in the offence of obstruction and preventing non-caregivers from engaging in a voluntary termination of pregnancy, if only once. Remember, we had discussions in this direction. Your provisions posed a major problem in this regard, and the Council of State was not consulted on these various aspects. That, Mr President, is what we want to refer to in order to benefit from the added value and expertise of the Council of State in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u63	Each group shall have five minutes' speaking time. That is what the Rules of Procedure state. Your n'invente rien.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u64	Mr President, we have still not received an answer to the question of why these amendments were tabled now. Why wasn't he in committee? You state that these amendments were tabled today in order to respond to the observations of the Council of State. But his observations were clear and clear. He did not call for any comment both on the extension of the legal time limit for abortion (from 12 to 18 weeks) and on the criminal sanctions or prison sentences still in force for doctors today. All these points have not received any opinion from the Council of State. Only one point called for clarification: the offence of obstruction. We are well aware of that. If your will is to work only on this aspect which, it is true, requires clarification, we are prepared to work on this issue only. We can very well, from our leader, table an amendment to that effect. I would like to conclude by reacting to your remarks that extending the 12- to 18-week period would allow eugenic abortions. On the one hand, I am surprised to hear this argument from a woman doctor while tests allow to know the sex of the unborn child from 9 weeks of pregnancy. This has nothing to do with the extension of the deadline. On the other hand, these remarks are extremely disrespectful of women. They portray women as irresponsible beings. In my view, such statements made a few days after International Women's Rights Day are unacceptable. I call on you to give up your request for referral to the Council of State because your amendments concern moral matters for which this body is not competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u65	Mr President, I would like to outline the context. How come the abortion bill is on the table here today? Because there have been extensive hearings in 2018 and two parties submitted a priority legislative proposal for amending the abortion law at the end of October. At no time was the urgency asked for the abortion law: it has known its normal course in the Chamber, with a first and a second reading. Every time there was a large majority in the Chamber to change the abortion law. It was said by opponents that this was not ripe, because we did not have the report of the evaluation committee, for example. The report of the evaluation committee came when we were waiting for the first opinion of the Council of State. It was a full six-year evaluation report. This showed that abortion legislation is being applied perfectly in our country and that the number of abortions is even decreasing, because we are increasingly focusing on contraception. Then it was said that the Council of State would turn it into chicken hood. The bill has been pushed through, as the opponents say, and there are issues that cannot be defended, with which the Council of State will never agree. We then received the advice of the Council of State. On the three essential aspects of extending the deadline, speeding up the implementation of abortion and removing all sanctions, the Council of State says that Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights implies that every woman has the right to respect for her decision whether or not to become a mother. Her decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy is part of the atmosphere of private life and personal autonomy. It is very important to emphasise that. Not only does the amendment today meet a need of more than 500 women who, like thieves, have to go to the Netherlands in the night and pay more than 1,000 euros to exercise their right to abortion, it has also been made clear by the Council of State that this is okay with legislation. There is therefore no reason to seek a further opinion from the Council of State. If the Council of State says it can go from 12 to 18 weeks, I do not understand why an amendment is being tabled here to ask the Council of State again whether it should not go back from 18 to 12 weeks. I think it is clear that we simply want to block this legislation. We do not want the democratic majority's will to change the law to continue. And some also want to use the women who are abandoned today as leverage to possibly get a place in a new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u66	Mr President, the version of the abortion law that is before us today in this plenary is a version that has already been extensively debated twice in committee and which has also been approved by a large majority in the same committee. I think it's called democracy, ladies and gentlemen. The Council of State also makes it very clear in its opinions on this matter that it is up to the political authorities to decide on these ethical issues. Well, politics has decided. Politics has already decided twice. I therefore think it is beneath everything that the opponents of this law now act in this way, by a game of re-tableting amendments which have already been discussed four or five times in committee, purely as a delay manoeuvre. That's all downstairs, colleagues. I do not call this democratic anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the process of adopting this law, the Ecolo-Groen Group has ensured that the debates take place in a calm manner, with respect for all the opinions, but also for the people concerned: women who have found themselves, who find themselves or who will eventually find themselves confronted, in their journey, with the need to resort to abortion. The discussions were documented. We have had the hearing of the evaluation committee, with its numerous reports, but also the opinion of the Council of State on our proposals. We received, an hour ago, 50 pages with 30 new amendments that were not discussed in advance, which does not allow us to have a calm debate. On the other hand, for the amendments tabled by the CD&V colleague, they contain elements which have, of course, been discussed in the committee but which, today, do not really respond to the elements present in the bill, which do not respond to the opinion of the Council of State and which, in reality, are a kind of disguised bill. That is a very different point and should have been reflected in a new text tabled elsewhere. We really do not understand the purpose of these amendments. In addition, some amendments are aimed at the IVG Evaluation Committee itself. Indeed, the proposal is to abolish this evaluation committee, when it has done a remarkable job and has answered all our questions for several hours in committee. Perhaps not everyone is pleased with the answers, but it is studies that are scientifically supported (with figures), which are carried out as and when family planning takes place. I do not understand why this committee should be abolished. Moreover, the abolition of this committee is also a matter which does not concern the Justice Committee. We have established that this is a matter for the Health Committee. It seems to us, even in the form, completely inappropriate to introduce such an amendment on the bill in question. Today, we are rather astonished by what is happening to us. We believe that it is not respectful of the lengthy debates we have had over the last few months on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u68	Mr President, I will try to draw legal conclusions as to whether or not to table this type of amendment. Each will be held to its own considerations regarding this relevance, which is normal in a democracy. I would point out that the Council of State is merely examining the legality of a proposal tabled. It will therefore not make a value judgment as might be suggested by the tabling of certain amendments, which I was able to read very briefly a few minutes ago. In relation to this legal framework, the Council of State has been very clear: our proposal for a law does indeed fit into what is to be examined and has made no restrictions – apart from that on the offence of obstruction – on the legality of this bill. I would remind you again that we worked on the 2018 law and that the work was conducted by my colleague David Clarinval through numerous hearings. This work on the substance led us to table this text today. We have also reworked in depth in the Committee on Justice, with a second reading and the tabling of very rich amendments. The discussions took place calmly for this sensitive subject. Astonishment is present to see a series of things that do not fall within the scope of the law because they simply do not need to be dealt with in this discussion, which is regrettable. Mr President, I would prefer that we should be able to continue our work as we intended to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the CDH and the CD&V hardly present their amendments and briefly justify their tabling. It's only been a few minutes since we received them. I would not like to get into the substantive debate. Having said that, I would just like to point out that three weeks ago we received an opinion from the Council of State which is very detailed. It has twice convened its general meeting to give us a reasoned and high-quality opinion. I would also like to point out that we began our consideration of my proposal in October and that it was voted on at first reading at the end of November without any amendments being tabled by either the CD&V or the CDH. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u70	Let me sue. After asking for a second reading, we have reconvened the committee and resumed the debate. These same parties have not tabled any amendments. The vote was taken in committee on 20 December. Three months later. We are sitting in plenary session, and you arrived with amendments a few minutes ago. Yes, I care about parliamentary freedom. A democracy is sacred. However, in this case, I think that we are witnessing an operation of fliber and obstruction rather than a defence of parliamentary freedom. We have received an opinion from the Council of State, which is clear. I have no other word: this opinion, Mr President, is clear. It clearly states that we can legalize the abortion, that we can change the conditions under which a woman can request to terminate her pregnancy and in which a doctor can perform an abortion. On the extension of the deadline, I quote: "The bill does not call for comment." On the reduction of the minimum reflection period from six days to 48 hours, "the proposed measure does not require any observation". On the abolition of criminal sanctions for women and doctors, "the proposal does not require any comment". On the prohibition of the institutional conscience clause, "the proposal does not call for observation". On the obligation to return to the head of the doctor, "the proposal is not contrary to the doctor's freedom of conscience". The opinion of the Council of State also recognizes the relevance of the offence of obstruction. The Council of State makes a few observations which we can easily answer and to which it itself makes suggestions for answers. So today you have tabled some 20 amendments which, for the most part, are already covered by the detailed opinion of the Council of State, which supports me in the idea that you are hindering the adoption of this text. That's your only goal! In conclusion, I would like to quote the Council of State: "Every woman has the right to respect for decisions to become or not to become a mother. His decision to terminate his pregnancy or not came within the sphere of privacy and personal autonomy." This is the legal version of the term "my body, my choice". It is the right that every woman has to be able to dispose of her body. That is the right that we wanted to strengthen by voting tonight on the proposal that is on the table. This is the vote that you postpone, ladies and gentlemen, by pacting with the Vlaams Belang to reach the threshold of the necessary 50 votes. I address you particularly, ladies and gentlemen of the CDH! I'm talking to you guys who break the medical cord. You will now count on the votes of Vlaams Belang to form a blocking minority and to prevent the vote on our bill, which is supported by a majority in this Parliament. And all this for what? To restrict a fundamental right. To prevent women from choosing. However, it is humanly fundamental to be able to choose whether or not to continue a pregnancy. The time isn't up. It's time for politics!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u71	Mr President, on behalf of my group I would like to bring some rationality into this very emotional debate. I fully understand the fact that this bill calls for some emotionality on various sides. You are aware of my group's position. We belong to a liberal party and the idea of freedom is our own. Of course, the idea of freedom also applies to the woman who is pregnant, who must have the choice whether or not to continue a pregnancy. The basic position of our group is therefore well known. In Belgium, around 500 women cannot be helped every year, so we have to send them abroad to get appropriate help. Not everyone succeeds in getting help with a pregnancy break within the legal period in force today. I understand the emotionality of the discussion. Everyone has his conviction and I fully understand every conviction, even if it is a different opinion from ours. In ethical issues such as this, I think it is important to be able to have a serene discussion. In committee there was a lot of fuss about whether or not to organise hearings. Although hearings had already been held at the beginning of last year, some felt that hearings should be held again. So far, so good. I call for serenity to remain. We discussed the content of the bill in committee. The President of the Chamber has requested an opinion on the content of the legislative proposal and we have received that opinion. There are actually no major problems with the text of that bill. However, a number of comments were made, interesting to examine further. I now take note of the initiative of a number of parties to table several amendments. The number of amendments is not very small, which makes it impossible for us to go through all this in the short term. The proposing parties are now once again requesting the opinion of the Council of State. In plenary, it is normal to ask for the opinion of the Council of State if more than 50 members support this request for an opinion. I understand that this opportunity did not arise because of the technique chosen to have the bill sent by the President of the Chamber to the Council of State. This is why we are now being asked to give our opinion again on the amendments that have been tabled. I take note of that without giving my opinion on it. I'll plead for serene treatment. If the amendments are submitted to the Council of State, I hope that we will be able to have a serene debate afterwards. We all know the Rules of Procedure and we know what is or is not possible. At some point, a parliamentary debate must end with a vote. I take note of the initiative of the colleagues from CD&V and CDH. We shall see what the vote on the request for an opinion results in. I do call for serene treatment, for the benefit of some 500 women every year who cannot be helped in a pregnancy break-up in our country, but who do deserve a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we proceed with an electronic count. That's the simplest part. That also saves us trouble to count everything on sitting and getting up. Those who support the request for the amendments to be sent to the Council of State will, of course, vote yes. I need 50 votes. If 50 votes or more support the request, the Rules of Procedure require me to seek the opinion of the Council of State. Is that clear? Electronic counting shall be carried out. E-counting is done electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u73	Mrs Karin Jiroflée has just tabled a point of order with the proposal to submit the application to the Superior Council of Justice, pursuant to Article 259bis-16, § 1, para. 2 of the Judicial Code, to initiate a special investigation into the functioning of the judicial order with regard to the trial for euthanasia of Tine Nys (Ghent Court of Assizes). An order motion had just been tabled by Ms Karin Jiroflée with the proposal to order the Supreme Court of Justice, pursuant to Article 259a-16, Paragraph 1, second paragraph, of the Code of Justice, to initiate a special investigation into the operation of the judicial system following the euthanasia process concerning Tine Nys (Court of Assistes in Ghent). I hereby declare this motion admissible and will have them distributed. I propose that we take a decision today on this proposal. I propose that we give our opinion on this proposal today. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u74	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 412: Eric Thiébaut, Daniel Senesael, Hugues Bayet, Ludivine Dedonder, Ahmed Laaouej, Hervé Rigot - 1006: Katleen Bury, Marijke Dillen, Ortwin Depootere, Dries Van Langenhove, Tom Van Grieken, Frank Toventors, Hans Verreyt, Reccino Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u75	Mrs Ingels, rapporteur, referred to the written report
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u76	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago we received in the House a Greenpeace report that looked at all the possibilities of terrorist attacks on our nuclear sites. In this report, it was noted that we had only considered attacks using past information in the public domain. Then, again in 2018, we had the visit of a delegation of the French National Assembly, which had denounced the lack of security of our nuclear sites. Both Greenpeace's report and the French commission denounced the fact that it was possible to have access on Google to all possible details concerning our nuclear power plants. If you go on Google Earth, you can see in detail the Doel nuclear power plant and the Tihange nuclear power plant. On the other hand, as far as France is concerned, you will find that the Chooz power plant is blurred on Google Earth. At the time, we demanded that the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon, ask Google to blur these images for greater security. And Google had refused, arguing that in France a legal provision forced them to blur images of sensitive nuclear sites. Our group then tabled a bill to force satellite image providers to blur the images of nuclear power plants. This proposal was tabled under the former legislature. The elections have taken place; we have again tabled this text, which has followed the legislative path. An opinion was requested from the Council of State, which made remarks which were incorporated into the work of the Committee on the Interior. I would also like to thank my colleagues in this committee for working very collegiately on this bill, and in particular my colleague from the N-VA Mrs Ingels, who drafted an amendment to enrich the proposal. Indeed, with this amendment, the scope of fuzzling can be extended to other sensitive sites other than nuclear sites in Belgium. I hope that this text will receive a large majority in the House today. It is high time to get in touch with our neighbours with regard to nuclear security and the blurring of satellite images. At the end of the vote on this text, I call on the Minister of the Interior to enforce these provisions because once the text is voted on, the ball will be on his side.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u77	Mrs. Ingels, you weren't registered, but you are now. I would remind you that the groups can do that. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Ingels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat myself. What Mr Thiébaut says is true. In my previous capacity on the Jambon cabinet, we asked Google to blur sites. They asked for a legal basis. That legal basis exists for military sites, but did not exist for other sites. We were therefore very pleased with the PS Group's proposal and saw the possibility of extending it to nuclear sites. Meanwhile, the Flemish Interest Group developed a proposal on prisons. That has also been taken into account. Prisons are also included in the legislative proposal before us. An opinion was requested from the Council of State, but also from the National Crisis Centre. This has a lot of experience with critical infrastructure. However, it is not simply intended that lists of critical infrastructure should be placed in the RB. It is indeed intended that each competent minister with his department should look at the sites for which it is useful to blur. A risk analysis must be carried out. This should then be included in an unpublished annex to the Royal Decree. I would like to thank colleagues for their very constructive cooperation, especially the colleagues of the PS.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u79	Mr President, the Vlaams Belangroep has also tabled a bill because Google, but also websites like Geopunt of the Flemish government, you are well aware of the fact that there is little or no willingness to blur things like prison sites. From a safety point of view, it is essential that blurring happens quickly and that it becomes legally mandatory; hence our legislative proposal. In the case of Geopoint, it is even the case that persons who request aerial images can simultaneously combine with different maps of gas and other pipes, so that there can actually be life-threatening conditions. The legislative proposal on the nuclear power plants of my fellow Members has now been extended to cover all national critical infrastructure, including aerial images of prison sites. The proposed extension is not to be underestimated. The question arises as to whether it is feasible to blur all images of all installations. In committee and just now it was said that blurring will not automatically be mandatory. Only a legal framework will be provided and the infrastructure will be blurry by means of implementing decisions. A risk analysis should first be carried out, which was also mentioned earlier, and should then be poured into an KB. The Flemish Interest Group is not at all opposed to enlargement, but we do wonder whether it would have been better to put the prison sites separately in a legislative proposal, because it is a very urgent measure that could have entered into force immediately with our legislative proposal. Nevertheless, we will support the bill on blurring all these sites, provided, of course, that the implementing decisions will not be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u80	Mr President, of course we will support this excellent proposal, Mr Thiébaut. I myself planned to propose a resolution aimed not at the fuzziness of nuclear power plants but at the falsification of prisons. It makes a lot of sense and I agree absolutely with the reasons why it is so. These are obvious national security issues, which once again demonstrate the negative effects that these new technologies, networks and others can also have. I hope that we will still have the opportunity, in this House, to bear witness to the urgency of finding legal opportunities to counter these harmful effects of new technologies. This harmfulness, Mr. Thiébaut, you have demonstrated it for nuclear power plants. Following an intervention in the Justice Committee with the Minister, I would like to make it clear that we have also tabled a proposal to blur prisons for the same obvious reasons of national security. We will, of course, support this common sense proposal. I hope that we can also continue our work on the elements I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u81	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u82	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (412/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (412/6) The title has been amended by the Commission to propose legislation to blur images of sensitive nuclear establishments and to limit the taking or distribution of aerial photographs of such establishments in the interests of public safety." The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law on the blurring of the images of nuclear installations and critical facilities, and to restrict the production or distribution of aerial photographs of such installations and facilities, in the interest of public safety." The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u84	I have received amendments to the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Code, the Income Tax Code 1992, the Code of Friendly and Forced Collection of Tax and Non-Tax Claims, and the Program Act (I) of 29 March 2012, on e-notarial matters, Nos. 910/1 to 7 (Agenda item 2). I have received amendments to the draft law amending the Code of Value Added Tax, the Income Tax Code 1992, the Code of Friendly and Forced Recovery of Tax and Non-fiscal Claims and the Programme Law (I) of 29 March 2012 on e-Notarials, Nos 910/1 to 7 (item 2 of the agenda). I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u85	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Els Van Hoof, Nawal Farih.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u86	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (305/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (305/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Ponthier and Mrs Samyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u87	Mr President, I will make my personal statement after my report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u88	You can do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal for a resolution on an international convention against age discrimination against older people, the author, Mrs Van Hoof, pointed out in her introductory statement that the older population is the most growing segment of society, which is also reflected in the United Nations Population Fund. It states that despite its growing importance in society that age group experiences multiple problems. It faces discrimination and also lives in poverty. There is a lack of appropriate measures and facilities. She is also the victim of abuse and violence. Several reports show that the current legal human rights instruments do not contain sufficient specific provisions to combat age-related discrimination and that it needs to be strengthened in this respect. To reinforce this argument, Mrs Van Hoof cites several international conventions in her discussion, which show that there is no specific convention on age-based discrimination. For example, the UVRM only indirectly mentions a principle of non-discrimination of older people and the Chung report, published in the United Nations, concludes that the current human rights instrument should be extended, in particular by means of a convention. Then the Open Ended Working Group on Ageing started, whose next meeting, if all goes well, will be scheduled soon, namely in April 2020. In the applicant's own country, too, the existing legislation does not have sufficient practical effect and a strengthening of the international framework for Belgium can provide guidance for amending existing laws. The proposal therefore calls for a more active role in the United Nations' Open Ended Working Group on Ageing, to advocate and participate in the substantive elaboration of a possible convention on age-related discrimination, as well as to focus on the integration and protection of older people in other international and European policy instruments. The author, Mrs Van Hoof, concludes by saying that by adopting such an international convention, Belgium will be able to pursue a national action plan to combat age-related discrimination. In the general discussion, Ms Depoorter of the N-VA expressed her support for the underlying concerns of the proposal. In addition, it underlines the importance of combating age-related discrimination and of developing an integrated approach in this area. Mr Samuel Cogolati of Ecolo-Green also expressed his support for the objective of the proposal. He also endorsed the idea of adequately protecting categories of persons more vulnerable to discrimination than others through a legally binding international convention. Mr Nabil Boukili of the PVDA-PTB Group expressed his support for the proposal because he felt that all forms of discrimination should be combated. Finally, Mrs Jadin asked why the question of age discrimination could be raised in the Committee on External Relations and how this could be implemented in the Belgian projects and/or programmes of development cooperation. The proposal was adopted in committee by 9 votes in favour, for Ecolo-Green, the PS, the MR, CD&V, PVDA-PTB, Open Vld and sp.a; 3 votes against, of the N-VA, and 1 abstention, of the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the brief report on the work in committee. There were also hearings in committee, which were extremely interesting. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a brief comment on the position of the Flemish Interest Group. Of course, we share the underlying concerns of the motion for a resolution. We stress the importance of combating age-related discrimination. The Flemish interest is particularly concerned about the well-being of our elderly. Safety and care for all citizens, but certainly for the elderly, is one of the red threads in our party program. Generations Flemings have built up our prosperity and our social security. They deserve to be protected. Colleagues, in practice, however, it has to be said that the public authorities are sometimes very inadequate in this respect. Their safety is not always guaranteed. Care for the elderly is not always sufficient, due, among other things, to inadequate budgets. We can only think of the pension file, the insufficient budgets for care and home care and the too high retirement bills. For decades, successive governments in this country have had different priorities than caring for the needs of our own people. If it is not the maintenance of the solidarity imposed with Wallonia or the maintenance of many tens of thousands of foreigners who have never contributed to our social system, then it is the maintenance of useless and inefficient structures and organizations which we believe should ensure, above all, the dominant position of the political elite. We can, of course, endorse the fact that initiatives are being taken to ensure a comprehensive approach to age discrimination. As far as we are concerned, however, this must be done, on the one hand, in the Parliaments and, on the other hand, in the Committee on Social Affairs. But the author, Mrs Van Hoof, states that the proposal, I quote, deserves to be dealt with in the Committee on External Relations because it is important to develop a comprehensive approach and a specific policy towards developing countries. In some developing countries, the situation of the elderly is very poor, and sometimes the elderly are even victims of violence and abuse for all kinds of reasons. Therefore, the principles and values of the protection of the elderly should be enshrined in an international convention so that those people throughout the world would be treated equally, including in developing countries." Our group calls it wishful thinking and naive. Despite all good intentions, we cannot even ensure that our own elderly people are treated in a dignified manner and receive the care they deserve. How could we then ensure, through international conventions, that all older people throughout the world are treated equally? In our view, it is not only unrealistic to enforce it at international level; it is also simply uncontrollable. That is why we will abstain from voting on the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give some examples of age discrimination. A 59-year-old candidate employee is told he has the perfect profile, but he doesn't get the job because he's too old. A man wants to rent a car to go on holiday, but the car rental company refuses his application because he's over 65 years old. However, figures from Assuralia show that drivers between 51 and 75 years of age cause the least number of accidents. An association organises African dance classes twice a week in the evening. A 60-year-old lady wants to sign up, but the organizer refuses this because she's too old. These true examples may seem trivial to some, but it says a lot about how we structurally stereotype older people. The consequences are clear. Older people face discrimination and live in poverty more often. There is a lack of adequate facilities and they are more often victims of abuse and violence. This is a phenomenon that occurs all over the world. In refugee camps in Congo, elderly people do not receive medical treatment because of their age. In Eastern Europe, older people are significantly more likely to experience street violence. It's a story we have to turn around. Older people are not second-class citizens because of the simple fact that every person must be treated equally. Furthermore, an older population offers enormous opportunities. It's about people with life experience who know how to handle it. They are multi-useable in associations and companies. They're good entrepreneurs. Moreover, they are also opening up new markets as consumers. Older people are therefore not a millstone around our necks, but a potential growth germ in our society. In order to tap into these huge opportunities, we need to ensure that older people can enjoy their rights worldwide. I therefore call in this resolution for the issue of age discrimination to be placed in an international perspective and for it to evolve towards societies of which the elderly are fully part. To do so, strong human rights instruments are needed. You will say that there are already the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights, which determines individual fundamental rights, including for the elderly. However, the current framework does not succeed in eliminating age discrimination. Most human rights reports are age blind. That's what Ban Ki-moon, the former Secretary-General, said during his farewell speech at the UN. There are three problems. They are worldwide and therefore also occur in Belgium. Firstly, there are too few specific instruments. Human rights may be universal, but they do not offer specific tools to tackle discrimination against older people. Secondly, the instruments and action plans that do exist, such as the International Plan of Action on Ageing, are far too weak. This is about soft law. Older people's rights are not sufficiently legally enforceable in a court of law. Finally, the current instruments are too fragmented about different treaties. In this resolution, I therefore call for Belgium to actively contribute to a UN Convention on Age Discrimination against Older People. The possibility is indeed being examined in the Open Ended Working Group on Ageing, which has been in existence since 2010. That seems to be a neverding story, also because of the need to create more support. That is what we are trying to do today with this resolution. A treaty is important. It does, however, provide a substantive guide for different countries in itself, which can be used nationally to transform into laws and rights and then implement them. In addition, a UN convention provides for a legal stick behind the door. They don't have elders today. They cannot enforce their rights on the basis of an international treaty before a court or international prosecution. It is therefore important that we should be able to implement this convention. I believe that we should take a much more firm stance on a UN convention on the rights of the elderly. Belgium and the EU remain rather detached from this debate for the time being. We must play a leading role in this. This resolution provides a sufficient basis for playing that vote in that convention, including for Foreign Affairs. It can be a powerful signal to other parliaments to support this. This is not something we should involve in our policies on the margins, it is one of the most urgent societal challenges. Older people are the largest growing population. In Belgium, by 2050, 30% of the population will be senior, or 3.5 million in total. Let us give them the treatment they deserve. I would also like to thank colleagues from the PS, who have tabled a number of constructive amendments. I would also like to thank everyone for their constructive cooperation in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u92	Madam President, the PTB Group supports this text as it fights discrimination against older people. Any fight against discrimination will find the PTB at its side. However, I cannot help but note some inconsistencies. This text is proposed by Ms. Van Hoof, a member of the CD&V, the same CD&V that was part of the previous government, which itself raised the retirement age to 67 years. This government and its predecessors have, through their successive policies, ensured that our pensions are, on average, among the lowest in Western Europe. The same government, of which the CD&V is part, hunts down and attacks our elderly GRAPA beneficiaries by having them controlled at home by factors. If we support this text, I call for consistency. If you want to respect the spirit of this text, the first thing to do is to go back to the decisions already taken which have raised the retirement age and made our pensions the lowest in Europe. That is why, in order to respond to this discrimination, we call for an increase in the minimum pension to EUR 1,500 net and I hope that Mrs Van Hoof and the CD&V Group as a whole will support this urgent request, because this request is aimed at combating discrimination against older people. I would remind you that there are pensioners who receive pensions of less than EUR 1 000. Some do not manage to finance their stay in home and nursing home. That's discrimination! And it exists in our country! We can work well for international solidarity – we are in favour. However, there is a need to be consistent with national policy. If the CD&V defends this text with a view to an international resolution, it will also have to take the same measures and invest the same energy in order to establish a minimum pension of EUR 1,500 net, to restore the pension age to 65 years and to leave our elders, when they benefit from GRAPA, at peace by stopping harassing them. That would be consistency. It is in this sense that we call on the CD&V to respect its own resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u93	Mrs Van Hoof, your resolution has indeed been debated in committee. I have indeed indicated that the N-VA clearly supports the challenge. By 2030, more than 2 million Flemings will be over 65 years old. We agree that older people's policies are an important aspect of our society. The N-VA believes that older people should be supported, as should all social groups, in terms of income, employment, mobility and leisure. The N-VA would much rather regard the elderly as participating citizens in society who are given and able to seize opportunities. The issue of subsidiarity is particularly important in the social debate. Any problems relating to older people should be addressed by means of an appropriate instrument, namely through the Communities. The biggest and most important point of criticism of the spirit of your text by the N-VA Group is that it is Community powers. In the Flemish coalition agreement, there is a strong commitment to older people's policy. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that it is better to use the Community itself than to adopt here and now a resolution which is actually outside our competence. The N-VA Group was initially very positive about this resolution, but the reversal came to the demand of the Foreign Affairs Office to include old age policy as a cross-cutting theme in development cooperation. Then we received a fairly negative signal from the FPS State Department. We did not therefore see the added value of participating in this text and adopting a non-binding text in Parliament. We do, however, stress that the policy towards the elderly is of course close to our group and that we naturally want to participate in it, on the one hand, from the Community and, on the other hand, from development cooperation, possibly tilted into projects. However, we have not chosen to endorse a text now and commit ourselves to a text which is not actually binding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u94	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Van Hoof and Mrs Farih, on behalf of my group, for having tabled this text. It makes it possible to advocate for a convention on age-related discrimination and to continue the fight against it at the international level. As Mrs Van Hoof said, a series of amendments have been introduced which have been adopted to strengthen the scope of the text. Indeed, we consider that it is a matter of getting out of the logic of costs in this area, for the logic of investment in social protection systems as guarantors of social, economic and environmental development based on a pact uniting the social forces of the generations. This also concerns the protection and promotion of the rights of older persons, for example by providing for pensions that are high enough to enable them to live in dignity. Finally, more broadly, demand 4 now indicates that the government must continue to invest in the implementation and support of bilateral and multilateral initiatives with other countries, with the European Union, also at United Nations level, with regional organisations and non-governmental cooperation actors, including mutual movements for universal social protection. We will therefore support this resolution, which will no doubt come to the table or other negotiating tables at other times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u95	Madam President, I will be very synthetic. I congratulate Mrs Van Hoof on her bill. She can know that I support her, like the entire MR group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u96	Thank you for your brief statement. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u97	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u98	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Nahima Lanjri, Nawal Farih.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u100	Madam Chair, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u101	Colleagues, my group, the N-VA, fully supports the principle of automatic rights allocation. Today, an adult person with a disability can claim an income replacement allowance (IVT) and/or an integration allowance. The right to an IVT depends on the financial needs of the rightholder, and the right to integration depends on the need for care of the person concerned. It is a doctor of the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities who assesses this latter right. Up to the age of 21, a person with disabilities can claim increased children's money, or what we call the care allowance for specific support needs in Flanders. In Flanders it is up to a doctor of Child and Family to assess this right. In fact, this is a law that was already adopted in 2007, but which never entered into force because the royal decree was not taken until today. The question is therefore why a legislative proposal is needed, whereas a royal decision should suffice. That question is not in itself insignificant. A royal decision can be taken within the framework of a coordinated approach. Now there is a legislative proposal on the basis of which the 2007 Act should enter into force by 1 January 2021. However, a number of important questions remain unanswered. For example, a flow of data is needed between the Länder responsible for family allowances and the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. That data stream isn't here today. There is no concrete perspective on this flow of data either. What we do know from experience is that setting up such data flows in less than a year is not self-evident. I suspect you will forgive me for this euphemism. This bill is therefore likely to become an empty box. That is, of course, the last thing we want. Then the question is what is worse: not entering something without it being prepared, or creating a false expectation. The automatic allocation of rights means that a rightholder is granted what he or she is entitled to, without being entrusted with a lot of administration. In the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 August 2019, 10,206 persons with disabilities received additional family allowances valid until their 21st birthday; 75% of them applied for the transition to the IVT scheme. The remaining 25% did not. Not rarely was that a conscious choice. This choice must also be respected. In order to do so, those who do not wish to receive the benefit are now treated to additional administration. They will now have to make an active statement that they do not want to exercise that right. One paperwork is replaced by another. The Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities also calculated that this bill would generate an additional workload of 2.5 %. In itself, ladies and gentlemen, this is no reason not to support the legislative proposal. However, if we know that the delay in processing the files is already considerable, it is not really a serious matter to tell the people here today that this additional workload is negligible without additional people and resources. As mentioned above, the N-VA supports the principle of automatic rights allocation, but this bill is not embedded in a coordinated approach that addresses and eliminates all these practical problems, all these obstacles, in a good, thought-out way. This isn't good governance. This is, at worst, profiling on the hood of vulnerable people. More importantly, it makes it possible for you to turn a wheel in front of people with disabilities with this bill. That is the last thing we want to do, and that is why we will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u102	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the colleagues in the CD&V Group who have tabled this bill which is a step forward for some people with disabilities and which is going to organize an ex officio review by the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities (DGPH), which is part of the Social Security FPS. It is more an ex officio examination than an automatic right because there is a file that will follow and this will ensure that before these people who receive increased family allowances reach the age of 21, they will be questioned about their intentions by the administration. Administrative figures show that among these young people who receive increased family allowances, 25 per cent do not apply for income allowance or integration allowance. The question is why. This can be a deliberate choice and it is quite respectable if these people do not wish to enter the RRA/AI system. This may be due to a lack of knowledge of the administration or too complicated a procedure. If among those 25% – which makes a few thousand beneficiaries – there are people who will have access to their rights, it is a step forward. In this sense, I do not consider it an empty box, as the previous speaker said, but a step forward because we are moving towards a kind of automaticity of their rights. For those people who often do not have high incomes, getting the income replacement allowance still makes the difference. It is also known that there is a high risk of poverty among this public. The real debate is therefore about raising the minimum allowances for persons with disabilities. We know that many of them live below the poverty line and this is certainly a challenge for the years to come. We also discussed the issue of administrative work within the HPD. She tells us that there will be a moderate additional workload and that an exchange of data with federated entities will have to be implemented. The administrations will have until January 1, 2021 to settle matters technically. There have been problems in the past, we must not deny it. Much has been said about delays, processing time, computer issues. All this is in order and, to the best of my knowledge, the duration of the examination of the files has been reduced to less than six months and there is no longer any backlog as we have seen before. There is therefore nothing to prevent this ex officio examination of young people with disabilities. As he did in committee, our group will vote in favour of this text, reminding us of what has been said by the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities. For him, the real issue is not a measure but a real reform of the 1987 law which sets out the allowances for disabled people. This law is absolutely obsolete and very complicated. What he expects of the policy in the future, depending on a possible future government, is really to review this law, simplify it and be able to give people with disabilities access to their rights. For today, we are voting for this advance. In the future, we hope to be able to work more broadly on the 1987 Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u103	Madam President, it goes without saying that the Flemish interest will support the bill. As a social party defending the interests of our people and of our people with disabilities, we regret that the law of 6 March 2007 has never been implemented, and that the previous governments have not taken any further initiatives to implement it. The automatic granting of an additional benefit to those entitled to it is the logic itself, of course, after an investigation to determine whether the person concerned still fulfils the conditions. In 2020, however, I can assume that the computer applications of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security have also made progress in order to make it technically possible to carry out ex-post research and award. Whether it is an income replacement or an integration meeting, the correct exchange with the Länder for, for example, the person entitled to increased family allowances should not be a problem today. So we not only recognise the merit of the proposal, which also aims to simplify administrative procedures for the person concerned, but we also fully support it. If the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities is unable to cope with the additional workload of the own-initiative inquiry, which is currently budgeted at 2.5%, it is up to us, particularly Parliament and the government of ongoing cases, to enrol the necessary resources for this service and for the adaptation to the computer system. Parliament must at all costs prevent the 2007 law from remaining dead letter. However, this does not blind us to the choice of those who do not wish to. It may well be that people prefer not to have their situation investigated or already know with certainty that they no longer meet the conditions. An opt-out of the own-initiative inquiry will always be possible, even after the adoption of this legislative proposal. The Flemish Interest assesses each proposal on its content. We can support this proposal fully and with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows that people with disabilities are having a hard time and are vulnerable. It is also very difficult for them to apply for the benefits to which they are entitled. A person with an increased child benefit due to his disability turning 21 now has to go through a whole administrative mill in order to obtain an income replacement and integration allowance. First, the person concerned must complete an online application form of the federal government with both administrative data and self-assessment of self-reliance. Upon receipt of that form, the FPS will contact the treating physician to request the medical information of the person with disabilities. The doctor receives this question via his mailbox or via a letter by post. The doctor must add the information from his patient's Global Medical File to the FOD's electronic form or deliver it to the FOD by post. In order to ensure that the doctor provides the information, the DG HAN department shall at the same time contact the person with disabilities with a view to informing his or her doctor of the application in such a way that the doctor can provide the necessary information. The FPS checks whether the person with a disability fulfils the conditions to obtain compensation on the basis of the medical and administrative data. This is usually the case, because information received from DG HAN shows that only 17% of applicants are not eligible. This evaluation can be done on the basis of paper documents, but in some cases the evaluating doctor of the FOD invites the disabled person to a study. Finally, a decision is taken, which is recorded in the file. The person in question shall be kept informed of the decision. This is just to show that a lot of steps need to be taken to apply for it. Around 15,000 people with disabilities are now receiving increased family allowances each year and will most likely qualify for this federal allowance on their 21st birthday, i.e. an integration meeting and an income replacement allowance or either. Figures from our administration show that no fewer than one in four people with disabilities do not apply today, mainly because he is not aware of the existence of that right. People do not know that they are entitled to do so, so they do not ask. Or it is also because the application procedure is far too complicated, as I said earlier. The measure we are adopting today, this automatic examination to determine whether people with disabilities are entitled to benefits, is therefore not an unnecessary luxury, but a necessity. That's what I notice on the premises. The social services of sickness funds, as well as many associations for people with disabilities, often receive people who are not or are not sufficiently informed about their rights or who do not themselves take the initiative to submit such an application. Herman Janssens, a staff member of the KVG (Catholic Association of Disabled People), experienced this in person. He didn't apply until he was 24. I quote him: "I could have done that when I was 21 years old, but as a student I wanted to do as little as possible with my disability. I was doing my studies. My parents thought I wouldn't be entitled to it, because I was still living at home. I don't know how they got the wrong information either. They also liked it better that I would get an income from work, but one didn't stand in the way of the other, of course. Because of my disability, it would take me a long time to find a job. I didn't hear about the benefits to disabled people until a friend with disabilities informed me about it and that was three years too late." This person himself has found that he was unaware. He lost three years because he didn't file that application when he was entitled to it. He now says that "application procedures remain too long and too complex for some people with disabilities and their environment. Automatic granting of allowances will undoubtedly reduce the non-inclusion of rights. We are therefore pleased that this amendment to the law responds to our questions." Research by the KUL also shows that many people with disabilities have difficulty managing their daily administration and money affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u105	Forty percent of the beneficiaries do not know how to obtain a benefit or a replacement income. While in our country 15% of the population with an income has to live below the poverty line, that percentage is twice as high for people with disabilities, i.e. 30.5%. It is therefore absolutely not a luxury that the government itself will now examine whether someone is entitled to a benefit, especially for the weakest in our society, namely people with disabilities. As early as 6 March 2007, Parliament decided that the right to those benefits should actually be examined automatically, but the royal decision to set the date of entry into service was always out of date. We are 13 years later and the KB has still not been issued. That is why I have taken the initiative to regulate this by law. The present legislative amendment was adopted by a very large majority in committee; only the N-VA Group abstained. I am very pleased that this will enable us to ensure that the administration of DG HAN will at last automatically examine whether persons with disabilities are entitled to a benefit on the basis of data which they will receive from the Länder as soon as the persons concerned become 20 years of age. At present, about 15,000 people per year are affected. For example, it does not waste valuable time and can examine in good time whether the persons concerned are entitled to integration or income replacement benefits at 21 years of age if they no longer receive increased family allowances. DG HAN will inform those concerned by letter, after which they will be able to indicate that they will not avail themselves of these benefits. I don't think there'll be much of that. In the end, the proposal, which we hope will be adopted again by a large majority, is intended to enter into force by 1 January 2021 at the latest. For example, we give the administration sufficient time to organise the necessary exchange of information with the Länder. If this is possible for the administration, we may, of course, do so earlier than 1 January 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal, we are taking another step towards the automatic allocation of rights. There's still a lot of work in that domain. We need to do this not only for people with disabilities, but for as many others as possible. The adoption of the proposed text should therefore not be an end-point. Finally, I would like to thank those colleagues who have worked constructively in committee to achieve the automatic allocation. I would also like to thank Minister Muylle and her administration, DG HAN. They have explicitly indicated that they will and wish to organise the legal provisions in the field. If it were up to them, we'd have done it a lot earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support later. I think we can really make a difference in the lives of 15,000 people a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u106	Mr President, we will support the bill, because we agree with the general philosophy put forward. In our view, the automatic allocation of allowances for persons with disabilities partially contributes to the fight against the risk of poverty. On the other hand, we still have two comments. For us, the real challenge of combating the risk of poverty is going to be in relation to the increase in all these income allowances at the poverty line. In addition, the Act amends the Act of 6 March 2007, which already provided for automatic fees. It would have been enough for the King to take a royal order so that it could be applied. It's a 2007 law. Thirteen years that this automaticity could have been applied. This also leads us to doubt the willingness of previous governments to make the fight against poverty a real priority. In this law is emphasized a desire that it be implemented by 2021 at the latest. We, as a political group, will be vigilant to ensure that it is effectively implemented in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u107	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri has outlined the existing situation and the one that will be there by 1 January 2021. The sp.a Group supports any implementation of the principle of automatic rights allocation. So we take a positive approach to this because we see it as progress. In fact, we want to achieve this progress for several benefits. This concerns the most financially vulnerable people, namely those with disabilities. The non-take-up, as it is called in the jargon, is 25 % too large. We must support all measures that can prevent income substitution and/or integration from being included. We need to make sure that these benefits do reach the people they need. After 14 years, that principle must now become a reality. It is up to the Minister responsible to ensure that the Disability DG receives the necessary resources, both in terms of staff and in terms of computer equipment. Mr Anseeeuw, the ongoing computerisation projects have been initiated by a colleague of yours. Of course, it would be better if these projects had already been completed. However, these resources are needed to organise the flow of information. The Director-General has announced that they will be there. This legislative initiative is positive, but we must face the challenge of modernising the whole system of benefits for people with disabilities. The increase in benefits must also be addressed, because there are still too many people with disabilities who are now living below the poverty threshold. We absolutely have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u108	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u109	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (522/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (522/4) The title was amended by the committee to propose a law amending the Act of 6 March 2007 amending the Act of 27 February 1987 on allowances for persons with disabilities and the Royal Decree of 22 May 2003 on the procedure for the processing of cases concerning allowances for persons with disabilities, with a view to allowing the automatic granting of allowances". The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Law of 6 March 2007 amending the Law of 27 February 1987 on the allowances to persons with disabilities and the Royal Decree of 22 May 2003 on the procedure for the examination of the files on allowances to persons with disabilities in order to enable the automatic granting of allowances." The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u110	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u111	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Koen Metsu, Christoph D'Haese, Theo Francken, Yoleen Van Camp, Darya Safai. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (68/4) The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (68/4) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur, Mrs Matz, referred to the written report. Mr Metsu has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u112	The decline in the Belgian nationality of a terrorist actually makes a lot of sense in all living rooms, except in this room, Parliament, and in policy makers. A terrorist is by definition someone who opposes our social model, against our values, standards, rights, duties, and against our rules of the game. The N-VA Group believes that this reduction of nationality can be done automatically in the event of a conviction. However, for many of you and for the Council of State, this was a bridge too far. There should still be a judicial test. After years of negotiations and wanderings, the N-VA Group also pulled that thorn out of the bill. The N-VA has met the rest of the hemisphere and has made abstraction of the automatic character. The judge may and will judge that purchase. The rest of the proposal is a huge step in the right direction. This proposal says that all Belgian terrorists are equal before the law. At present, Belgian nationality can only be acquired if it has been obtained through a procedure. As far as N-VA is concerned, that's disproportionate. That's not right. Belgians from birth, Belgian terrorists, I cannot stress this enough, because I have the impression that many Members forget that this legislative proposal deals solely with terrorists, are subject to this bill and can therefore lose Belgian nationality. The N-VA fraction also waives the minimum effective prison sentence of five years. An effective conviction is enough. The Open Vld Group had also tabled an amendment for an effective punishment. However, no deadline was set, because five years is too long. For example, two IS terrorists were convicted a few weeks ago. The parquet is progressing for both five years. One gets 40 months, the other gets four years. Both women are not eligible to lose Belgian nationality if they have dual nationality. That's amazing. The other parties also always point out that the fight against terror is being fought together and can only be won together, across party boundaries. But, as some say, this bill will not solve the complete problem. It's actually rather symbolic. The N-VA has never claimed that this proposal solves the entire problem of terrorism. But we do believe that many measures will arm us in the fight against the terrorists. Done with free travel within the EU. The removal of Belgian nationality is a first step to enable expulsion. No more coming into our country when the ground under their feet in Raqqa, in Syria, gets a little too hot when the caliphate is driven out there. That is the end of easy access to our social benefits, which we must work so hard for. In a moment you will, against better knowledge, be voting against the bill for the reduction of the Belgian nationality of terrorists. I will not deny that I deeply regret this and that I am a little frustrated by the fact that I am convinced that your constituents also think this is a logical legislative proposal. Legally, nothing or no one will stop us. This is a purely political choice. Because the weak version of this bill can be today. Yesterday, I questioned Minister of Justice Koen None of them. He said that in 2019 13 terrorists took Belgian nationality. That's good. But that could be much better. That target group must be much bigger. All Belgian terrorists of dual nationality must be targeted. I can assure you that with our group, the N-VA, we will continue to support your good proposals to protect our society and provide additional security. But, ladies and gentlemen, our society, our society will not be destroyed by those terrorists, but by the 'Wir acquire das' policy makers, who, against better knowledge, continue to look away and acknowledge years after date: if only we had.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u113	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u114	The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (1047/1-2) The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (1047/1-2) Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the person concerned from the list which was delivered to him. Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure (art. 58, No. 2) the two youngest members make the roll call. Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure (Rule 95) 58, No. 2) The two youngest members hold the call for names. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her ballot in the ballot box. I would ask every Member to put his ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. I invite Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove to make the roll call. I call on Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove to speak out of the names.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u115	We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. We will close the secret vote on naturalization applications. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I declare the ballot closed. The secret ballot is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u116	Mr President, my group would like to speak about naturalisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u117	I shall then give the floor to the speaker from your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u118	Mr President, you have been involved in this House for a long time. So you should have known that we would have made an argument on this subject and would uphold the tradition by giving some kind of explanation of vote, even if only to confront the other groups, which at the time chased through Parliament the Rapid Bell Act, with the disastrous consequences of that law. You should not underestimate the political signal from the list that the majority of Members have just put in the ballot box. I'd say more than that. After all, we will not hesitate to continue to confront the voters of the then purple-green governments with what their Members have done here in the past with the naturalisation laws they have adopted and with the abuse of them. The present list of naturalisations contains nearly 500 people from almost all countries of the world, all of whom will become Belgian. We're allowed to ask questions about that, aren't we? It defies all imagination and sense of reality that the people of this colourful company will soon be the new citizens, without one condition of integration or willingness to work. Even speaking of one of the languages of the country or region is not a real condition in many cases, since the Brussels parish is refusing to cooperate in the further investigation, although that explicit question comes from a committee of this Parliament. These naturalizations happen, with all the consequences for the further social integration and assimilation in our society. Flemish integration courses or not, such a naturalisation policy only leads to the absence of real integration and assimilation. The aforementioned excrements of the Rapid Belg Act are unacceptable to the Flemish Interest. That is why we have always opposed the relevant legislation and the implementation of it in the Committee on Naturalizations. Even after the entanglement of a few years ago, that law remains the easiest way to become Belgian for a mass of naturalization dossiers. The Flemish Interest continues to demand a drastic tightening of nationality legislation. A entanglement that goes beyond the adjustment of a few years ago. We have already tabled a legislative proposal to restore the principle of pedigree, with the drastic tightening of the conditions of residence, including ten years of legal and continuous residence in our country, the introduction of a citizenship test and the abolition of double nationality. Just as diplomas are awarded only after a successful examination and not at the beginning of the school year, the acquisition of nationality must once again be the culmination of a successful integration process and not the reverse. The Flemish Interest will continue to oppose the continued influx of new Belgians. Consequently, we do not approve these nationality laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to Mrs Karin Jiroflée's point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u120	D. Article 259a-16 (1) of the Civil Code states that the Chamber of Representatives may, by a majority of its members, request the Joint Advisory and Investigation Committee to carry out a special investigation into the operation of the judicial system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u121	D. Article 259bis-16, § 1, of the Judicial Code provides that the House of Representatives, by a majority of the members, may request the joint committee of opinion and inquiry to initiate a specific investigation into the functioning of the judicial order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u122	Mr President, on 18 February last, we first raised our request in the Committee on Justice for a special investigation by the Supreme Court of Justice into Mrs Tine Nys' euthanasia process. Today, we are presenting this to the plenary as a procedural motion. Of course, we have a number of reasons for this. We have seen that various actors have challenged the impartiality of the judiciary both in the trial and in the national media as a result of the possible influence of the judiciary. In addition, there is the actual determination of the long duration of justice, over nine years. Moreover, the doctors were never formally suspected by the various competent investigators of poison murder, the doctors were not prosecuted by order of the council chamber at the court of first instance in East Flanders, the public prosecutor's office did not appeal against the decision to dismiss the council chamber for the first time in six years, and the public prosecutor's office in the appeal proceedings before the Board of Appeal against the decision to prosecute the council chamber for the first time in six years to refer the doctors to the rectional court, later than the court of assistants, for poison murder on the basis of a new reading of the file, but without any new investigative act or new statement. That is why we call upon Article 259a-16, Paragraph 1 of the Code of the Court of Justice, which provides that the Chamber of Representatives may, by a majority of its members, request the Joint Advisory and Investigation Committee to carry out a special investigation into the functioning of the judicial system. We propose that: "The Chamber of Representatives requests the Joint Consultative and Investigation Committee to conduct a special investigation into the functioning of the judicial system during the administration of justice in the file of the euthanasia of Ms Tine Nys from the filing of the civil party complaint on 5 January 2011 to the acquittal by the Court of Assists of the Province of East Flanders by judgment of 31 January 2020, in particular the possible violation of the independence of the judiciary; the possible attempts to influence the judiciary by interest groups; and the question whether any possible influence by interest groups would have also effectively led to a violation of the independence or impartiality of the judiciary." That is the request we are making.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u123	Each political group may take the floor on the request for a maximum of 5 minutes. That is how the Rules of Procedure determine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u124	Mr President, the Flemish Interest Group opposes the request to ask the Supreme Court to investigate the alleged Catholic influence in the euthanasia process. If the Supreme Court wants to do this, it's up to him to take the initiative. It is not for Parliament to order this, nor for lawyers from any of the parties involved, especially in such a mediatised case. It is a huge choice, a dossier in which almost everything and everyone has now had the opportunity to express an opinion. It was an assist case that had already begun before the trial was degenerate in a play in which scadvocates were allowed to open all registers, even though a media ban had been imposed by the judge. A few weeks ago, we were confronted with the request of the sp.a. Today we are also confronted with a letter from the counselor of one of the doctors involved, Master Walter Van Steenbrugge. He shall act in accordance with this request. There are reasons not to go into it. First of all, it is a particularly delicate dossier in which ideology and religion are not far removed. The file's still running. This cannot be compared with another recent study, in particular the Bakelmans report. In addition, there is the accusation of those in favour of an investigation, which immediately links to this process a philosophical part, which is now getting grotesque dimensions. I quote: "This process would be part of an offensive by the Catholic Church against the rule of law and liberal laws." There are several accusations made by Mr Van Steenbrugge, without any beginnings of evidence. He's got it from hearsay. That's the red thread through his 35-page letter. It is not the task of politics to instruct the Supreme Court solely on the basis of claims made by one particular lawyer. One of the arguments to claim that influence would have taken place is, for example, the fact that the prosecution had first requested the dismissal, in order to return to it subsequently as a degree of appeal. Master Van Steenbrugge speaks of "a mysterious move, an unprecedented turn." This is actually a very curious analysis of a criminal lawyer. This is not incomprehensible, and those who stand in practice know only too well that this still exists, in the two directions. The Attorney General specifically stated that after a second reading he found that there were violations of the euthanasia law. Then it was his full right to take a different position than the Dendermonde Attorney. Van Steenbrugge continues: "It was well known that the highest authorities within the Catholic Church have influenced and directed this process." Again without any evidence. Through and in a claim of his client he had heard that the rulers of the Brothers of Love would have been at the base of the turn of events in the prosecution. If we want to take this seriously, there must be at least a beginning of evidence on the table. I read the letter that was sent yesterday with attention. What am I distracting from that? At first there was an attack on a news anchor of the VRT, which had allowed the sisters of Tine Nys to have an internview. Van Steenbrugge commented: "The news anchor at Terzonder concerns Mrs Cools, husband of Professor Wim Lemmens, who often eludes herself as an opponent of euthanasia." Apparently even worse for Van Steenbrugge: "Their son acted as counsellor of the bourgeois parties during the assists process alongside Master Cologneer." As a suspect, that can count. Mr President, will you also ask your colleague from the Flemish Parliament to carry out an investigation at the VRT? Van Steenbrugge finds it strange that the broadcast took place two weeks before the meeting of the council chamber. Is it not just as strange that he, who began his career at the office of an old Minister of State, two days before the Socialists' motion for a vote to present the euthanasia to the Supreme Court, should present a 35-page letter to Parliament? Mr President, I will conclude. I should like to warn you that this request sets a very dangerous precedent. In the future, it will be sufficient for a lawyer to send certain insinuations to the world in a mediatised trial, without any evidence whatsoever, to have an investigation conducted by the Supreme Court of Justice. We do not want to accept this, Mr President, and we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u125	Mr President, on behalf of my group I would like to explain why we would like to support the motion by the sp.a Group at this time. There have indeed been many insinuations, statements and statements in the media. That is not good for justice and it is also difficult for the judiciary and the judiciary to defend themselves in this with all the current media channels. We therefore believe that it would be a good thing if the Supreme Court of Justice were to carry out an investigation to restore serenity on both sides. The question is asked whether this can be done during an ongoing investigation, because, as everyone knows, there has also been a cassation. This can also be done perfectly during an ongoing investigation since a legal amendment in 2016 and it has already happened in the case of Julie Van Espen, which had not even started. For the sake of clarity, I would like to specify that we, as a group, do not give an opinion at all or give a ruling on the allegations or on all kinds of statements made by any lawyer. So we are not going to say anything about its content. That's not our job either. For us, therefore, the report of the Supreme Court may well be very short, but then the discussion can be closed and all guesses can be stopped. It would be useful and good for the Justice Department to do so. Of course, the Supreme Court of Justice will not rule on the possibility of a dismissal or a referral in a particular file. That's not his job either. It will only be about the course and organisation of the process. Finally, I would like to stress that the referral or dismissal is part of the independence of the judiciary. In this too, the separation of powers is a sacred principle for us. I have thus explained why we want to support the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u126	Mr President, what is in the Chamber today is a precedent. I regret that. I regret that because it is a precedent with which we address a question from a party involved in a procedure. If we act objectively and correctly, we will have to increase the number of staff and the composition of the Supreme Court phenomenally in the future if it turns out that it is sufficient for a lawyer to follow suspicions during or after proceedings and therefore for the Chamber to follow them. I think, apart from this case, that we should ask ourselves questions. Mr President, with respect for the judiciary, with respect for the course of justice that has taken place in that procedure so far, I would like to say, personally, that I would have preferred this procedure not to have gone before the Court of Assists. However, I repeat: with respect for the judiciary and the course of justice that has taken place in that procedure. May I remind you of the following, ladies and gentlemen? If the reform of Koen Geens had not ended in a destruction by the judgment of the Constitutional Court, then this case would not have come before assists either. Depending on the judicial investigation, there has been three regulations. One at the beginning, where this factual dispute was pending for assists. After the law was passed, it would have been pending before the correctional court. After an intervention by the Constitutional Court, it was again suspended for assists. And that in the course of the investigation. This may have affected magistrates in their judgment. Colleagues, the prosecutor's office and the chamber of indictment have indeed had a different view than their colleagues at first instance. If we have to ask ourselves questions, we are not yet at the end. Do those who will vote in favour of the motion perhaps want to abolish the appeal? The parties concerned will then no longer be able to change their opinion without suspicion. That is the reality. Colleagues, I've been involved in politics for a long time. When young colleagues ask me for advice and are involved in an individual dispute, I always give them the same advice, namely that politicians should not interfere in individual disputes. You do that, however. Mr President, I am not going to comment on the fact that we were supposed to have received or not by chance yesterday. That writing is not an individual writing from person to person, but a quasi-public writing. However, the suspicions against various people mentioned therein are shameful. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. When reading the motion in accordance with the letter, I note that the authors are talking about different actors. It is a doctor and an unnamed person, without evidence or clues. More than that, the lawyer of the other party publicly denied it in the media. One of the mentioned parties has also publicly denied this. We are faced with statements from a counselor who states that two people would have said'something', while others formally deny those words. That's the situation. Mr President, I shall conclude. We have more than rightly appointed the Supreme Court to exercise control over the judiciary. In my view, however, it is appropriate that the Supreme Court should first be given an opportunity to give an opinion on the matter. You will not even give that opportunity to the Supreme Court, especially the opportunity to judge with knowledge of that writing, about which you have heard my 'appreciation'. You're not even gonna give me that chance. You take sides. I understand that we differ on the rules that are applicable or not applicable to this dossier, but I do not think that we should mix politics and control of the judiciary. Mr President, the opinion I give to many young politicians is that they should not get involved in private disputes. I want to maintain that. Despite the fact that I respect the initiative and have expressed my opinion on it, I would like to continue with the line I have taken with regard to young politicians. We will abstain in the vote, but we regret the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u127	Mr Verherstraeten, you have argued a little too long. You had five minutes. I thought you were gonna end up with the words: I'm gonna go from this gallery to the King and offer the resignation of...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u128	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, it was a burning plea. You were in shape. You're obviously missing the courthouse. You were in better shape just now than in committee, because you were actually very moderate there. I don't know what happened in the meantime. You said at the time that you were not going to oppose it, but you were also very moderate. Colleagues, this is a very serious matter. Several statements have been made in the media. Some say influence or pressure has been exerted, others deny it. We have to admit that we don't know. It is not for us, politicians, to judge the truth of these accusations and accusations. However, we do have a body that can investigate such matters. It is now argued that there are few elements, but only after an investigation will we know whether or not elements have been put forward. It's hard to say in advance that there's nothing going on, because I don't know. If we decide not to carry out that investigation, the result is that there will be a suspicion of some kind of pressure around that judgment of the court in Ghent for years to come. I don't know what happened. There is only one way to know, namely by having it investigated by a body that can investigate such cases. Then we will know whether there are effective elements in one or the other sense. The Supreme Court of Justice has shown that it is able to carry out an in-depth investigation in sensitive cases as well. I have every confidence in that with my group. That is why we support the request. We do not speak in advance in one sense or another, but we want to ensure that this matter can be cleared up once and for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u129	Finally, Mr De Roover asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u130	Mr President, I expected Mr Van Hecke to conclude by saying: 'That is why we will abstain'.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u131	(...) (Hilarity and noise)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u132	Can that be included in the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u133	'Cause his micro didn't work out. Mr Van Hecke said: 'We are not nephews'. Neither do we. This is an extremely choosy matter which has been a major concern of public opinion in the media. In principle, that includes all serenity. It is their responsibility that certain lawyers, in both directions, who have not shown serenity in all their interventions. I assume that there has been a process of justice that is not being questioned a little bit here. I read in the question that an investigation should be carried out into the possible violation of the independence and/or impartiality of the judiciary. That's not nothing. That's not a small question. In fact, this is about the foundations of our institutions. I read on: '...to the possible attempts to influence the judiciary by interest groups and to the question whether any possible influence by interest groups has also effectively led to a violation of the independence and/or impartiality of the judiciary'. I quote again: 'if there were serious suspicions and the Supreme Court itself does not take the initiative to investigate them'. So that is the case, I understand. It seems that we must force him to do so by means of a motion. He himself does not take the initiative. However, when these suspicions arise, I think that we should fundamentally question the Supreme Court of Justice. If there is indeed reason to take this suspicion seriously, why does he not take the initiative himself? If he were to take that initiative, we would of course fully respect it, as it falls within his remit. If we think that we should surround the arm of the Supreme Court of Justice because he himself does not take action in such fundamental matters, I think we are voting against a heavy motion of censure, which is no longer an order motion against the Supreme Court of Justice. Mr President, thank you for asking whether there are precedents. Legally, there is such a possibility. That was a very important exercise, because if we were to ask for this exercise at regular intervals, it would not have the interest that it has now, because there are no precedents. So it would be the very first time. This means that what is happening here is of such an order that for the first time we will proceed to this far-reaching intervention. I think that we are taking a dangerous path, also in the context of the separation of powers. After all, one cannot deny that there is an intimidating effect on the insinuations made here by the legislature. I do not think Parliament should be allowed to be instrumental in this matter, because that is what is happening. That is what happens when this motion is approved. I think we are very far away from the role we have been given. It would go against the serenity and role we have to play. Ladies and gentlemen, if there has been any doubt in our group about our voting behaviour, Mr Verherstraeten's glowing speech has completely eliminated those last doubts in our minds. We shall therefore vote against it with complete conviction, following his words.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u134	I would remind you that, pursuant to Article 259bis-16, § 1, para. 2 of the Judicial Code, the majority of the members of the Chamber must rule in favour of the application. I would remind you that, pursuant to Article 259a-16, Paragraph 1, second paragraph, of the Code of the Court of Justice, the majority of the members of the Court of Justice must give their opinion on this matter. I shall put the proposal to the vote. I put the proposal to the vote. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u135	Yes 73 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 130 Total The motion was defeated. The motion has been rejected. Consequently, the Board rejects the proposal (s. 61, No 4, Rgt) The Court therefore rejects the proposal. (art. 61, nr. 4, Rgt)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u136	By letter of 19 February 2020, Mr Michel de Fays, the outgoing Councillor of the Court of Auditors, requests that he be able to carry the honorary title of his post from the date of his retirement. By letter dated 19 February 2020, Mr Michel de Fays, outgoing counselor at the Court of Auditors, asked to take the title of honor of his office from the date of his retirement. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2020, I propose that the House grant this request and grant it the honorary title of office from the date of its retirement. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2020, I propose that the Chamber respond to this request and award him the title of honor from the date of his retirement. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u137	- Mr Steven Vergauwen, International Secretary asbl ICEC.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u138	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2020, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. Candidates will be heard in the Justice Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2020, I propose that the curriculum vitae of the candidates be given to the political groups. The candidates will be heard in the Committee on Justice. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u139	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. The agenda also mentions a supplementary list of proposals for consideration by the Conference of Presidents. The agenda shall also include an additional list of proposals whose consideration has been requested from the Conference of Presidents. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider it to have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of all these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u140	I give the floor to Mr Scourneau for his urgent request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. This is all the more important as it concerns the current crisis. I thought that having made the request to your desk was enough to be able to get involved in this emergency request. I thank you, therefore, for your mercy. We would like this bill to be dealt with under rule 51 of our Assembly's Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the urgent procedure. Indeed, this bill before you is part of the measures adopted by Kern last Friday following the appearance of coronavirus in our territory, in order to anticipate the economic impact of this epidemic and to support our companies, our independents and our SMEs. One of these measures concerns the benefit of bridge law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u142	Take the list of considerations and indicate the number of the proposal for which you are requesting the urgency. Otherwise, no one knows what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u143	It's number 1090, Mr. President. In my opinion, today, with coronavirus, you can easily spot... [[Laughs]] I think everyone has incorporated this definition into his lexical field. Therefore, the 2016 law passed by our assembly gives the forced self-employed to interrupt their activities a replacement income to cope with the loss of income associated with this interruption. The law of 22 December 2016 now requires that the impossibility of continuing the activity lasts at least one full calendar month. As a result, an independent person forced to discontinue his activity from the fifth day of a calendar month to the 25th day of the following calendar month will not be eligible for income. Our proposal is to allow him to benefit from this income after a week of forced interruption. With the consequences of coronavirus, there is an urgent need to further simplify this measure. We must adopt it quickly in order to allow the funds to compensate the self-employed quickly. I hope that this measure will be adopted by my colleagues because it is terribly important for these independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u144	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (412/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (412/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u146	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 91 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (305/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (305/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u147	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 106 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (522/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. (522/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u149	Mr President, I would like to explain why we are abstaining from this proposal. We did the same in committee. Open Vld goes a long way towards the objective of Mr Metsu's bill, which is very legitimate, but our party does not agree with the application to the second and subsequent generation of Belgians with dual nationality because we believe that punishment should be not only legal, but also desirable and, above all, useful. That is not the case here. Those people are not only supposed to have a strong relationship with Belgium, it is important to us that there are no readmission agreements which provide for the readmission of foreigners after a declaration of Belgium's nationality has expired and which were born on Belgian territory. That is what follows from this bill. Those countries of origin are not prepared to allow their nationals to return to that situation. The return agreement between Belgium and Morocco, for example, expressly excludes persons who are long-term residents or who are born here. The revocation in this bill only ensures that the convicted person no longer has a valid residence permit. However, we were very pleased that the draft law was adapted to some of the comments made by the Council of State, namely that it did not have an automatic character and that the prosecution still has to request the revocation. We were also pleased that our amendment was accepted, which said that it should indeed be a condemnation that is effective. Mr Metsu, we fully agree with you that five years is too long and that this should be brought down. We are abstaining because we differ on that second and subsequent generation of Belgians with a dual nationality. You have argued that, but for us that does not change anything because the punishment is no longer effective. It is indeed legally possible, but it is not useful because people simply cannot be sent back to their country and so nothing is achieved in practice. We therefore fit for symbolic legislation: we still believe that it should be useful and we will abstain today, as we cannot achieve it here at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u150	Mr President, terrorist acts are intended to create fear among the population, to destabilise our society and to attack our social model by force. Such crimes go against the standards and values of our society. I was therefore surprised when this bill of logic was not supported by all the other parties. My surprise was even greater when the other parties did not hear the bill, despite the amendment tabled by the author himself to withdraw the automatic revocation, which actually weakened it. It seems to me that common sense has disappeared in the hemisphere, the sense of reason is gone. We shall therefore vote against the rejection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate took place in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs. For us, there is no reason to do it again, of course. However, the measure proposed by the N-VA is, first of all, discriminatory against certain categories of bi- or multinational Belgians, who simply cannot divest themselves of their second nationality. Above the market, it is ineffective in protecting our society from the real threat that no one denies. What we expect are realistic, proportionate and effective measures. We are far from it today. We do not expect any publicity effects and we oppose any discrimination. That is why my group will vote in favour of the report and, therefore, against it. Only the N-VA and Vlaams Belang support it and consider it effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u152	Mr President, what I feared is now being proved. I had that impression at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs. We continue to object to the fact that this bill discriminates against Belgians. That is not true, it is not about Belgians, it is about Belgian terrorists. I emphasized the word four or five times earlier. I believe that a third of you were present at the time during the brief explanation of this bill. I am sure that more than half of those present in this half-round will not know what he is voting off. I'm sure of it. Legally, nothing's stopping us. This bill has been pending here for four years. We have indeed removed the thorns from the legislative proposal and the automatic nature from it. The judge will continue to judge the purchase of Belgian nationality of terrorists. This is pure political unwillingness. I will repeat my last sentence from earlier, for those who were not there. Our society and our society will not be destroyed by these terrorists, but by the 'Wir acquire das' policy makers who, against better knowledge, will look away and think within a few weeks, months or years 'we would have decided otherwise'. Please be aware of that when you vote on this bill in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u153	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u154	Yes 74 Yes Non 40 No. Abstensions 16 Abstentions Total 130 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill 68/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 68/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u155	This is the result of the naturalization vote. (1047/2) This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (1047/2) Number of voters 102 Number of votes Votes valables 102 Valid votes Absolute majority 52 Perfect majority All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u156	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u157	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u158	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u159	We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] That explanation of vote has just been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u160	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 112 Yes No [[15]] No. Abstentions 1 Abstentions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u161	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 113 Yes No [[15]] No. Abstentions 1 Abstentions Total 129 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u162	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 113 Yes No [[15]] No. Abstentions 1 Abstentions Total 129 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u163	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 130 Yes No 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No. Abstentions 1 Abstentions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-12-55-plenair-ip027x.u164	The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 March 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 19, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
