ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u2	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Gilles Vanden Burre, Jean-Marc Delizée, Catherine Fonck, Evita Willaert, Marie-Colline Leroy, Benoît Piedboeuf, Christophe Bombled, Florence Reuter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Sophie Thémont, who refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u4	Madam President, in principle there was an oral report for the last part, which has just been approved by the Committee on Social Affairs. I assume it is included in Mrs Thémont's report. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the first part of this text concerns the self-employed and provides greater security for the self-employed who are ill. It is the correction of a device that was voted in the law last year. We had to find a solution. I would really like to thank the colleagues who have contributed to this solution. We know that in the social system of self-employed workers there is a provision that the period of incapacity for work begins at the earliest on the date of signature of the medical certificate. This is what was problematic, especially now, in times of pandemic. Indeed, doctors are so busy and have so many difficulties meeting all their patients that it is not always possible to have an appointment on the first day of the disease. The National Intermutualist College, UCM and other organizations have drawn Parliament's attention to the need for a corrective action. The current system posed enormous problems in the implementation of payments. We found, with this law, at least a temporary solution, from 1 October to 31 December. An independent person will no longer be able to lose allowances per day of incapacity, regardless of the date of the certificate. This has been discussed at length, but it is also planned that the INAMI Management Committee will assess the impact of this provision according to which the self-employed person's period of incapacity for work begins at the earliest on the date of signature of the medical certificate. Of course, we know that after 31 December, a lasting and structural solution will have to be found which will have to enter into force on 1 January 2021. I have no doubt about our collective will to do so. In any case, today we are taking a step in the right direction. Madam President, we have extended the purpose of this text to various provisions which do not have a direct connection with the day on which the self-employed are in need. For this reason, I have tabled an amendment - which has been adopted - amending the title of the text. Now it is a bill on various social measures related to the VOCID-19 pandemic. We have adopted a system for social elections. We know that last spring they were postponed because of the first confinement, so that the calendar narrowed. It is scheduled to open on 6 November with the invitations of the workers. Then, the social elections are to start on 16 November. Once again, the pandemic upsets the organization, while it is fundamental to economic and social democracy within companies. This is one of the peculiarities of our country. We must be proud of this and do everything possible to ensure that it is carried out in the best possible conditions. In this respect, the social partners concluded an agreement no later than yesterday, to encourage consultation within companies and to allow either electronic voting or mail-order voting. As much as the democratic nature of social elections is essential, the health security of workers must be guaranteed. This is the content of this agreement between the social partners, which is reflected in the amendments which are now included in the text submitted for our approval this evening. Of course, the conditions may not be optimal for the organisation of these social elections, but in the end, it is a challenge. Nothing is ideal today in many sectors. Everyone adapts to this situation. I think that this is a challenge that workers will certainly be able to meet in order to organise these elections in the best possible conditions. We also added a section on student work to facilitate and expand the working capacities of students in the health care and education sector. Specifically, hours of work that would be performed by students in a health care institution such as a hospital, a nursing home or in the education sector will not be included in the annual quota of 475 hours per year. We are really trying to give additional opportunities for these students to come to strengthen the teams in the field. We know that we are currently dealing with a second wave of coronavirus, that the situation is alarming, that it is getting worse every day. So we wanted to encourage reinforcement by these students whose work will be really, I think, appreciated. Madam President, of course our group will adopt this text. I would add that there are also provisions that are more relevant to public health, but I will not comment on all the points here. In any case, it is with conviction that we support this text as it has been expanded and renamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u5	Madam President, I wanted to go back to the basic subject matter of the text rather briefly, even if it has been expanded. Of course, we fully support all the amendments that have been tabled and voted on in the parliamentary committee. On the basis of this text, it also referred to an important provision in relation to workers confronted with the disease, in particular the self-employed, since this is what this is all about, specifically the system of periods of deficiency. It did indeed seem important to us to be able to move forward on a system that was changed in the last legislature. We actually shortened the waiting period from 14 days previously and reduced it to 7 days on certain terms. The return of the land has shown us, since then, that there is a difficulty. Indeed, as we know, self-employed and self-employed people often do not go to the doctor directly, to the first symptoms of the disease, because they have a business, a store, a professional activity to run. Therefore, they often go to the doctor later and, when the diagnosis falls, there is a gap between the first day of official sick leave and the visit to the doctor. With this text, we want to put in place a retroactivity between the moment of the visit and the first effective day of illness so that the self-employed or self-employed can have access to support while he or she is ill, via his or her mutual, via the mutual "independent". This text actually extends the system introduced during the first VOCID containment and stopped at the end of September. Here we extend the system until the end of the year. And in parallel, we are working on a structural solution. This is important because today, according to a study sent by the National Intermutualist College, there is an average 10 days difference, exactly 13 between the moment when the self-employed or self-employed person goes to the doctor and the moment when his or her health problems started. A broader study of the period before the VOCID and during the VOCID was therefore requested from the same College and from the same bodies which normally have to report to the Parliamentary Committee by 15 November 2020. On this objectified basis, the objective is to come, by the end of the year, with a structural system allowing the independent or independent to have the maximum safety in case of illness. This is obviously important for us, certainly in this period but also in a structural way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u6	Colleagues, potpourri may smell good when you open the pot in the living room, but today the pot stinks a bit, not because of the contents of the jar, but because of the way this jar was thrown on the table. During months the Social Affairs Committee has been working on solving a problem around the career days for self-employed people. The problem was caused by the previous legislative amendment in May 2019. In terms of content, different parties worked on different slopes, but a temporary suspension in the corona period of some articles of the law in question brought a temporary solution, which was also extended until the end of this year. The adaptation of the KB was unanimously supported by the Committee on Social Affairs, a progress for our self-employed. The unanimous adoption of Bill No. Using 1365 now, no: abuse, to approve many other things, I really don't understand, let alone approve this way of working. The original proposal on self-employed care days has now been supplemented by the electronic vote and vote by post in social elections, the use of students in hospitals and schools, the distribution plan of patients over hospitals, sampling by unskilled staff and perhaps some other things. The majority of this loser coalition may have something else urgently on the table. Bring it quickly to the Committee on Social Affairs, they will add it to the proposal before us today by means of an amendment. Correct parliamentary work, legally binding legislation? Not important, as long as we can rush it through there. "Run, jump, fly, dive, fall, get up and move on, we can't stay, we can't stand now. Move, move, move, move, move, move, move, we're in an incredible hurry." Besides a nice song by Herman Van Veen, this is mainly the summary of the government work of the last few months. Speaking of controlling the corona crisis, Mrs De Block, seven months after the previous lockdown, we suddenly discovered that the students might also be able to assist in expanding the test capacity. On the record day of the number of corona infections and COVID patients in our hospitals, we must quickly, quickly, arrange a better distribution plan for these patients. The Belgian Government and Parliament are always behind the facts. If our country once again has high levels of infection and hospital occupation with COVID-19 patients internationally, this has largely to do with this chaotic and amateur approach to the pandemic. This country is rotten, and over and over again, we're doing our best to prove this. We can support the amendments in substance, but we absolutely do not support this way of working. The lack of real debate and legal control is reprehensible, and we wanted to be able to say that in dealing with this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, given the circumstances we are experiencing, it is, of course, important to take urgent and multiple measures. Thus, the original title of the bill has been adapted and now has the following title: Bill on Emergency Measures to Combat the VOCID-19 Pandemic. As has already been pointed out, this proposal includes several chapters. First, there is the chapter on temporary suspension following the VOCID-19 pandemic of application of the condition that the period of incapacity for work in the insurance benefit for self-employed and assisting spouses may begin, at the earliest on the date of signature of the certificate of incapacity for work. Indeed, the system of waiting days for self-employed persons has undergone some reforms in recent years, with the aim of improving the status of self-employed persons by gradually harmonizing the system with that of employees. The last reform in 2019 dealt with the right of an independent person to be fully compensated when the incapacity to work lasts more than seven days. But on the ground, some problems began to arise when the self-employed did not take the necessary steps from the first day of incapacity. Prior to the 2019 reform, it was possible to regularize a post facto situation. Today, this is no longer the case, which results in a loss of rights both in financial terms and in the absence of assimilation of periods of incapacity. The Union of Middle Classes and the Intermutualist College were the first to report these abuses. Other agencies followed later. Some of my colleagues have tried to find a concrete solution to this issue, but the VOCID-19 pandemic has taken over. At the beginning of the health crisis, the Minister of the Independents, my colleague Denis Ducrame, assumed his responsibilities and temporarily suspended the articles of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 which prevent the regularization of the situation a posteriori. In the meantime, Parliament has not been able to find the most fair and efficient way to overcome this reality on the ground. However, the exceptional measure expired at the end of September. It was therefore our duty to find a solution for these sick independents, deprived of their right. We then decided to amend the original bill in full in order to respond quickly to the urgency by extending the suspension of sections 53 and 58 of the Royal Decree from 20 July 1971 until the end of this year. The Committee on Social Affairs has also asked INAMI to objectively assess the situation over a period of one year, a period that goes hand in hand with the situation before and after the pandemic. Colleagues, this assessment, which should be communicated to us in mid-November, will enable us to quickly define a structural measure that will have to be implemented as early as January 2021. This is the option that was chosen and adopted unanimously by the Committee on Social Affairs. The bill referred to also contains urgent provisions for the management of the care of patients with VOCID-19 in hospitals. First of all, in terms of hospital capacity, this bill will allow a better distribution of patients VOCID-19 and a more efficient use of available hospital capacity in order to avoid oversaturation of hospitals. Indeed, given the circumstances, the rule of bringing the patient to the nearest hospital is no longer the best. There is no need to bring the patient to the nearest hospital if the hospital cannot accommodate him, for lack of space. On the contrary, it has become more rational to drive the patient to a hospital in which one is able to treat him. With regard to the aspect dealing with the performance of medical acts by persons who are not legally qualified to exercise the art of curing in order to carry out the tests relating to the virus in the context of the VOCID-19 coronavirus epidemic, its origin stems from the fact that, in the context of the health crisis of VOCID-19, it is important to have sufficient testing capacity to support both the containment strategy and the exit strategy after quarantine measures, but also in order to contain the new resurgences of contamination by the virus and thus avoid overmortality. Over the past several months, measures have been taken to increase testing capacity. It is essential to be able to maintain a high level of testing, the time still needed to manage this health crisis. As the legislation currently stands, the only health care professionals authorized to perform the medical procedures for carrying out the virus tests are doctors, nurses and midwives who graduated before 1 October 2018, who are authorized to practise nursing, as well as medical laboratory technologists and students in training during their internship to become a medical doctor, nurse or technologist. In view of the changing situation, the above-mentioned staff have been and are still being widely mobilised in all the services involved in the management of this crisis. As a result, there are no longer enough legally qualified people to perform these tests as part of the VOCID-19 coronavirus epidemic in a sufficient and timely manner that is still relevant to the situation. The purpose of this chapter of the proposed law is therefore also, exceptionally and temporarily, the time needed to manage the current health crisis, and subject to certain conditions, to allow other healthcare professionals than those mentioned above to come to help them in this task which is essential to the management of the current crisis. With regard to another chapter of the draft law which provides for the expansion of the working capacity of students in the education and care sector by neutralising the hours provided for the fourth quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021, this measure aims to facilitate and expand the working capacity of students in the care and education sector. In practice, student working hours in a health care institution or in the education sector will not be counted for the quota of 470 hours per year. We know that the situation of health care institutions in the face of the second wave is alarming and worsening every day. The need for reinforcements to help the health care staff is acute. This chapter of the proposed law therefore contributes to this objective by enabling students to lend a hand. It also makes it possible to take account of the education sector, which is also experiencing great difficulties in the provision of education and childcare. Finally, with regard to the chapter on the extension of the deadline for concluding an agreement on electronic voting or voting by letter in social elections, and for regulating the procedure for voting by letter following the VOCID-19 pandemic, we believe that the adoption of this provision is also very important, since it will not compromise the proper conduct of social elections in companies. It is important for workers to be able to choose the people who will represent them for the next four years on company councils. In conclusion, as you will have understood, the MR Group will of course support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u8	I will not repeat the explanation given by my colleague on the original bill. I would just like to add that when we discussed this bill, we still had a government in day-to-day business. There was a large majority to respond structurally to this reality, which places the self-employed in a situation of discrimination in relation to the disease. Then there was a turnaround, once we had a government, the structural issue was rather restricted and reduced to three months during the period VOCID-19. However, we see that the period of VOCID-19 will continue. Of course, we have not supported this restriction. We wonder what the party in the Vivaldi, which has punched on the table so that we can reverse as far as these independents are concerned. This was also reflected in the Vivaldi government's statement: it was going to put things in place to regulate the status of the independents so that they would be more stable. However, since it was still a proposal in the direction of a plus, we were going to support it anyway. But we regret this step backwards. Secondly, today's situation has changed. Amendments have been made. A Social Affairs Committee was convened at 4 p.m. Spontaneously, I was upset by this way of doing things. Since I'm new, I thought there were things I didn't know yet about the procedures to follow. Indeed, this was the first time that we had been confronted with amendments unrelated to a bill. That is even why an amendment was tabled in order to change the title altogether. The Social Affairs Committee had to be suspended because one of the amendments concerned the development of a legal basis for the transfer of patients. We no longer knew whether this should also concern the Committee on Public Health. In short, it was a little chaotic. At the same time, we must nuance the point, because we have carried out a substantive analysis of the proposed amendments, which we have finally supported. Firstly, the social partners had called for social elections to be organised. As I said in committee, this moment is essential for democracy in companies, since workers can thus elect their representatives who perform – and even more during this period of pandemic – a very difficult job that I welcome, since they must answer the health question while defending workers' rights. That is why we could no longer afford to postpone these elections. In this sense, we will support the amendment as it has been explained to us that in order to formalize this formula, no formula other than passing through a bill was possible for the government. Secondly, the second amendment dealt with strengthening health care and education, with the possibility of bringing together all the forces capable of helping in this difficult time. I think, among other things, of the students. Because of the health crisis, we will be pragmatic and support the measures. However, as a left-wing opposition party, we cannot afford to support such proposals without wondering how we got there. It is also a question for us to question the political parties that have put health care into such difficulties. Nevertheless, we will support that amendment. We were a little more mixed on the question of education because we are not convinced. For example, as far as childcare is concerned, we believe that there are workers looking for a job and we would not like to put students in competition with job seekers. But in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures! We will therefore also support this amendment. The third amendment dealt with transfers between hospitals. We can really support him. Yesterday I received the testimony of one of my former colleagues whose husband was hospitalized at the CHU in Liège, directly in intensive care. After 12 hours, he must have been immersed in a coma. In view of the saturation in hospital, he was transferred to Leuven in order to give way to VOCID-19 patients in a more serious condition than his. If he was in a coma, I dare not imagine a more serious state! His wife is still relatively respectful of this mutual assistance between hospitals. She herself is a trade union delegate and she finds that politics really bears a responsibility for what happens. She would obviously have preferred to keep her husband in Liège, even if she did not have access due to the VOCID-19. She was very well received by the KUL team in Leuven. She said that her husband had been welcomed as a VIP. We want to support and thank this solidarity between the various hospitals. We were told that here, a legislative chapeau was needed for all this to happen in the eyes of the law. We will therefore support all three aspects. I have one last comment. It was possible to introduce urgent amendments to this bill. We regret somewhat, in the light of the discussions today, that the Minister for Employment has not made an urgent proposal to increase the number of social inspectors to enable companies to be more controlled. This was also part of the new title of this proposal "VOCID-19 measures". We deplore him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, exceptional times require exceptional decisions. Taking into account the situation we are in today, we can only welcome the way we are today. As regards the disability scheme for the selfemployed and assisting spouses, we all know that the pressure on hospitals and also on our general practitioners has reduced non-urgent medical care and has even been put on hold in some hospitals. This means that the extension of this disability scheme is more than justified. However, we stress that we expect an evaluation before we develop definitive structural solutions in this area. In view of the current situation, we can only, of course, support the management of the admission of covid patients to hospitals. The whole first wave of corona contamination was very well received by the hospitals. Nowhere in our country had patients to be reported due to lack of capacity. Everyone remembers the images and the situation in northern Italy; we did not. Let us hope, please, that it will not prove necessary to remind hospitals of the legal obligations to retain capacity for covid patients or to receive patients when they still have capacity, because, as has been said, this means that they have to operate properly. So we also fully agree with that part of the legislative proposal. The social partners have reached agreement on the social elections. In view of the covid pandemic and the need not to make non-essential movements, this is also a logical measure for us. With regard to the deviation from the limit hours for job students, we also fully agree with the objective. If helping hands are needed due to staff failure, we must facilitate so that students can also lend a hand without any disadvantages. After all, they are indispensable and extremely important support for hospital staff and healthcare institutions. I can only be grateful today for the initiatives that have been taken. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Members for their unanimous approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u10	Madam President, I would like to make a few very brief points, although colleagues have already summarised them well. Firstly, we naturally agree with the balanced solution that has been found for the disability benefit for self-employed persons, an extension of a measure that has already been taken, with the emphasis on an evaluation to establish a definitive scheme in the near future. We will continue to contribute constructively to this, so that the social status of the self-employed can also be improved as far as possible. Secondly, the enlargements made to the original legislative proposals on the social elections at the request of the social partners will also be fully supported, as will the structural expansion of the number of hours that students can work, because those hours are needed to provide assistance where necessary during this difficult covid period. Thirdly and finally, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in committee, the exceptional situation with regard to the fight against COOVID-19 requires exceptional measures. We have applied an exceptional procedure for this. We're admitting that to the equestrian. Those exceptional measures are there to ensure that patients can, if necessary, be spread across the different hospitals in our country in order to avoid the saturation of hospitals or departments of hospitals, with a system that takes into account a quality service for covid patients and other patients in need of urgent care. There will also be a guarantee system whereby information is exchanged between the chief physician, the medical corps of the hospital and the health inspector. A committee is hereby established in Brussels. This will be done with the best possible respect for patients' rights, in the sense that the closest one is a criterion that is included, but that unfortunately cannot always be guaranteed. A second point, which also calls for urgency, concerns the increase in test capacity. It's absolutely necessary. So we also need more people who can take the tests. Subject to specific training and a number of quality guarantees, access may be granted to a number of healthcare professions in order to reduce the necessary corona tests. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their constructive cooperation and for the unanimous approval of the amendment and of the whole of the legislative proposal, despite the exceptional procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, if I may, to make a few comments. Firstly, the basic text, which was a positive text, was unfortunately revised downwards in a significant way. Finally, it made it possible to resolve a particularly important injustice for independent patients with heavy pathologies. It is the setback resulting from the decision taken by the parties of La Vivaldi to table an amendment to change the scope of the original bill that calls upon me. In fact, in essence, what we are doing here is just giving a rawette by adding three months in relation to the current situation for the self-employed. But the essential thing would have been to remedy, following – let us recall – a strong demand both from the Intermutualist College and representatives of the independents, to an anti-abuse rule that had been designed in 2019 to empower the independents, especially during small problems and small stops for minor pathologies, to finally penalise and arrive – one can, it seems to me, use the words – to a social regression in very serious situations – that is what mutualities highlight – with pathologies like cancers or other severe chronic diseases. Long before 2019, the late self-employed person could restore his entitlement to compensation for a stoppage that had lasted for several months, obviously with the intervention of his doctor, but also under the supervision of the medical consultant. Today, these socially serious cases are once again no longer settled, except until 1 January, when the text made it possible to do so definitively. On the other hand, this is an inequality of treatment, although some in committee have highlighted the abuses that would be orchestrated by the independents and which would justify an umpteenth evaluation when an evaluation was made – it seems to me – by the Intermutualist College. Both of them have repeated these figures. When we put these abuses forward, I still do not understand – and none of you have been able to explain it – how we find ourselves in a situation where the employees, supposedly, would not behave abusively, but that the independents, on the other hand, would be responsible for abuses that would lead to a problematic situation. In short, we do not follow the Vivaldi parties who have invoked this insistently. This assessment is scheduled for 15 November 2020. We are almost 1 November 2020 and I feel that, as by chance, there will still be a delay. The small extension you are proposing is really a step backwards from the basic bill. We have therefore reintroduced an amendment which I have already tabled to you in committee, Madam President. I don't represent him here. I always hope you can think of the seriously ill independents, some being affected by a long VOCID or other pathologies. The second part concerns the various amendments that have been introduced today. We are happy to support the social elections. No problem. We also support the ceiling of 475 hours for students in the health and education sectors. I had already pleaded for some time with the Minister for Employment. You've planned it until the first quarter of 2021. I think it's a little short. We can extend it, but we'll have to think about it very quickly in January. Remember, during the first wave, the device had been put in place and had been lifted far too quickly. It would have been all the more important to plan it for a longer period of time as caregivers have accumulated overtime. They have given up leave to continue to invest in the field and, for rest homes in particular, the most important wave is coming only now. The living forces will therefore remain present in the care institutions. Therefore, as far as students are concerned, provision will have to be made for the possibility, at least up to and including July-August 2021, of allowing this scheme with a ceiling high at least for health, and it will have to be examined for teaching purposes. Finally, perhaps a small comment on transfers between hospitals, just to say that the law does not regulate everything. Attention should be paid to how this will be implemented in the coming weeks. On the other hand, I must admit that I do not understand very well why we are still setting up an additional committee, with an ad hoc ad hoc committee, whose law also specifies the composition only in an extremely vague way, in any case at the level of its various components. You specify who will be there, but in a vague and fuzzy way. At this point, I would like to draw, even if it is not there, the attention and vigilance of the Minister of Health, so that we do not end up with perverse effects for patients, and especially for chronic patients who, as you know, can always make an acute problem, and patients with rare and by definition serious diseases, who can at some point get complicated. We will vote on the text, even if it is clearly with a regret for the independents, again with a finding. Everyone says "yes, yes, yes." Everyone says: "Yes, yes, we have to settle this, we have to do it" during the election campaign, during the following months, etc.And then in the end, when one can clearly vote, nothing happens. I find this particularly unfair on how to do it and not correct in relation to the seriously ill self-employed. I'm sorry. As far as I am concerned, I will continue to defend them vigorously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u12	I won't be long, but I wanted to say a few words. Indeed, I had the honour of chairing this committee this afternoon. I do not hide from you that, when I found out that I was going to chair this committee, and I saw what we were going to do about a first proposal, which would be transformed by amendments, and which would therefore change its object singularly, even though it would then be redrafted into its original title, I thought it would be complicated. Perhaps we were going to do a favor to those who wanted to tell us that we were not sufficiently consistent in parliamentary work, that once again it was disorganized, that we should have anticipated, that there was only to, that it should have, that we should have thought of, that we could have, etc. It is true that it happened a little like that. But finally, I am relatively happy with the responsiveness of this Parliament. There's an emergency. People called for help by saying that it was imperative to take action now, particularly on the initial subject, the insurance of allowances and maternity for the self-employed, but also on the question of the shortage of staff in health care, the shortage of teachers, the difficulties that had arisen with regard to social elections, the difficulties of transfer to hospitals and medical procedures. It was a lot for a single afternoon, for a Social Affairs Committee, which had to even deal with issues related to the Health Committee. In fact, this committee has found solutions one after the other, with all the colleagues in this Parliament. Finally, the text was approved unanimously. Indeed, the colleagues who tabled the amendments were also able to prove that these amendments were relevant, concerted, thoughtful and that it was Parliament's responsibility to find solutions and respond to the absolute urgency. Of course, this should not set a precedent, and it should not be said that it is right to make texts like this in the afternoon on a day of plenary. It's obvious. This cannot become recurring. But I would point out that, in the end, this Parliament has worked, that nothing has hindered a vote that is aware of the extreme urgency of the situation. I wanted to thank my colleagues and the assembly for that. Of course, the method may not be the best, but we were able to show our full ability this afternoon to respond to the absolute urgency. I am therefore reassured that Parliament still has this capacity today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u13	Madam President, with your approval, I would like to explain the two amendments that our group has tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendment No 8 was adopted earlier today in the Committee on Social Affairs and is now part of the document before us. The document, with an meanwhile misleading title, provides that patients can be transferred to another hospital without their consent or that of their representative. When we talk about patients with a representative, it is very often about the weak in our society. For them hospitalization is already overwhelming in any case, which only becomes stronger when that admission occurs as a result of a corona contamination. A transfer to another hospital without their representative's permission is far from ideal for their well-being. In addition to the medical necessity mentioned, there is also such a thing as mental well-being, the patient's psychological distress. That is why our group has tabled two amendments to ensure that the weak in our society cannot be transferred from one hospital to another without the consent of their representative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u14	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u15	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1365/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1365/10) The title has been amended by the commission in "Proposed law on various social measures following the VOCID-19 pandemic". The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal on various social measures under the COOVID-19 pandemic." The bill has 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u16	Art. 12 • 17 - Steven Creyelman cs (1365/11) • 18 - Steven Creyelman cs (1365/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u17	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u18	Sustained: the amendments and Articles 2 and 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u19	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3-11, 13-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u20	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u21	Voters 112 Stemmen White or invalid 4 Blank or invalid Valid 108 Geldig Absolute majority 55 Perfect majority M. Peter De Smet a obtenu 1 voix. Mr Peter De Smet received one vote. Mme Caroline Vanderkerken a obtenu 23 voix. Mrs. Caroline Vanderkerken received 23 votes. Mr. Wauter Van Laethem obtained 84 votes. Mr Wauter Van Laethem received 84 votes. Mr. Wauter Van Laethem, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed second alternate of Mr. Pieter-Alexander De Brock, a Dutch-speaking effective member of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. Mr Wauter Van Laethem, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed second deputy to Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock, a Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u22	Voters 112 Stemmen White or invalid 19 Blank or invalid Valid 93 Geldig Absolute majority 47 Perfect majority Mme Claudia Allatta a obtenu 2 voix. Mrs Claudia Allatta received two votes. Ms Janice Dervaux obtained 1 vote. Mrs Janice Dervaux has received one vote. Ms. Marie-Hélène Descamps obtained 79 votes. Mrs Marie-Hélène Descamps received 79 votes. Ms. Laurine Vierendaels obtained 11 votes. Mrs Laurine Vierendels received 11 votes. Ms. Marie-Hélène Descamps, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mrs Marie-Hélène Descamps, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed to the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u23	The Chamber shall appoint the actual members of the boards of directors of UNIA/MYRIA. The Chamber should designate the effective members of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Nominations were announced in plenary on 17 September 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, I propose that you make these appointments during the plenary meeting on 19 November 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, I propose that these appointments be made at the plenary session of 19 November 2020. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 30 October 2020 until Thursday 19 November 2020 at 4 p.m. Ballot papers and parliamentary documents are available in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 30 October 2020 until Thursday 19 November 2020 at 4 p.m. The ballots and parliamentary documents are available to the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The ballot boxes will be open during the plenary session on Thursday 19 November 2020 at 4 p.m. in Room 3. The two youngest members are invited to attend the recount. The urns with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 19 November 2020 at 4 p.m. in Room 3. The youngest two members are invited to attend. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u24	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u25	Madam President, we are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal (No. 1589/1) by Mrs Depooster on access to the flu and COVID-19 vaccine. This proposal addresses the corona crisis, in particular the creation of low-threshold access to the COVID-19 vaccine from the moment it arrives, as well as the persistence of low-threshold access to the flu vaccine. Based on discussions that the N-VA Group had this summer with the healthcare sector and its concerns, we are convinced that this proposal should be discussed as soon as possible, this autumn, in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. It's now that we have to deal with Corona together. It is therefore now time to prepare ourselves to organise the distribution of the long-awaited COVID-19 vaccine in a way that provides the most accessibility for both the patient and the care provider. Both this and last week, the N-VA Group have often stressed the need for a planned approach to this crisis. We have regularly supported requests for urgency for proposals from colleagues. We are therefore convinced that the debate on vaccination must now take place above the border between the majority and opposition. We can't put that out for ourselves any longer. We are asking for a thorough parliamentary debate on this proposal within the committee. We are convinced that we can tackle this crisis together and must look forward together to the moment when a vaccine is available. According to the different producers, the clinical phase in which the study for the development of the different types of vaccines is already quite advanced. If the vaccine is there, we should not have a debate, but be able to act immediately. Hence, for all patients who are waiting for a vaccine, we want to do the parliamentary work so that we are prepared and logistics ready. That is why we are calling for the urgency of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u26	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u27	Mr Verherstraeten, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1591/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u28	Madam President, Mr Koen Geens's legislative proposal concerning various changes in the insolvency of companies is intended to allow the court to choose between forms of continuity, i.e. simpler judicial dissolution or bankruptcy. We fear that due to Corona there might be an influx of bankruptcies. There will undoubtedly be legal entities with few assets, without staff and without activities for a certain period of time. For them, it would be more advantageous to carry out simple judicial dissolution rather than time-consuming and costly bankruptcy proceedings. In order to make the resolution of companies that cannot survive corona as efficient as possible, we believe that the proposal requires urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u29	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u30	Madam President, if we were to engage in the new political culture of the current government, we would not be rigidly opposed by the opposition to the urgency. However, we are not going to go along with that. It is a matter of urgency for us and we will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u31	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities on 20 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities of 20 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 32/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 32/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Dominiek Sneppe; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis has made it painfully clear that the powers in this country are too fragmented. The sixth state reform did not provide homogeneous packages, so the Länder are responsible for, for example, well-being, but their funding is still largely at the federal level. The government's negotiations have shown that this country has run out. I have said it before in Parliament, everything here is Community, and that is what I am sticking to. Flemish Interest is not alone in that determination. More and more citizens are following us in our quest for autonomy, and interest groups are also beginning to dare to ask for autonomy. Also the Flemish Doctors Association, Zorgnet-Icuro, Professor Lieven Annemans and even former Minister Geens advocated the regionalisation of healthcare in full corona crisis. Surely it is not normal for the Länder to put a lot of resources into prevention, but for the federal level to reap the benefits? A nurse in a care centre is paid by Flanders, a nurse in the geriatric department of a hospital receives a federal salary, while they perform the same tasks. Here, moreover, there is a risk of discrimination between health care workers who work in institutions at different levels of policy. A complete state reform with a transfer of homogeneous packages to the Länder is not at issue for the time being, as the procedure was not followed. In the meantime, the Flemish interest is asking for the procedure to be prepared and the budgets to be split now, because only Flanders and Wallonia can go the way they want to go, so only Flanders can get rid of the waiting lists in the rest homes, support the disabled and eradicate poverty. Only our French-speaking neighbours can take matters into their own hands and follow the path which they consider important. That is why I hope you will be able to support the motion for a recommendation, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u33	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u34	Yes 90 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u35	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee on 20 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Finance and Budget of 20 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 33/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Messrs. Christian Leysen and Servais Verherstraeten. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 33/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and Mr Christian Leysen and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the recognition of Limburg as a dislocated zone stems from the economically problematic situation in Limburg following the closure of Ford Genk. This recognition provides for a significant reduction in labour costs due to the 25% reduction in the farm levy for new recruitments. For example, it was possible to use the maximum amount on job creation. The fact that the measure did not reach cruising speed until 2018 due to adjustments and the fact that the measure is not sufficiently known to SMEs ensures that the potential is currently not fully exploited. Moreover, despite all efforts, the Limburg economy remains particularly sensitive to the economic situation, not to mention the consequences of the continuing corona crisis and the imminent Brexit. It is therefore crucial that the recognition of Limburg as a dislocated zone be extended or at least adapted, in the sense that Limburg can continue to work on economic growth with the best possible support measures and can continue to invest in equipment and people. This government can be an important engine in that if it wants to. The Minister's answers, however well-intentioned, were, in our view, too waiting and non-binding. That is why I am putting this motion of recommendation to the vote. I sincerely hope that the parties who have already argued for the extension in the past, such as Open Vld and CD&V, will take action today and support our motion today. In our motion, we ask for two things. Firstly, the extension of the current measure or the implementation of new tailor-made support measures. Secondly, greater commitment to the publication of the current recognition and possible future measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u37	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u38	Yes 92 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u39	Madam President, Mr Steven Creyelman has a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u40	We'll write that down.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u41	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters on 21 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 21 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 36/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Jessika Soors. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 36/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Jessika Soors. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last year I asked the ministers how many foreigners work in our federal administrations, divided into EU nationals and so-called third-country nationals. Despite the fact that three excellences did not reply, there were 739. Take off all the people who work for the FPS Foreign Affairs, in the embassies and you name it, and that leaves over 100. In essence, that would not be a problem if Article 10, second paragraph of our Constitution were not to prevent this. Only people from the European Union and Belgians can be employed in the federal administration. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not find the Constitution a piece of paper, as the late Prime Minister Tindemans put it, then there are actually only two possibilities. You can amend Article 10 of the Constitution and ask the Council of State and any doctrine of law that this would happen. The Minister also acknowledged in her reply to my interpretation that this is necessary. However, we have a problem because you did not declare Article 10 of the Constitution subject to revision. So we cannot change this legislature. If you do not want to remain in an unconstitutional situation for the next 4 years, only the second option remains. You can also change the policy, in accordance with the Constitution that we must respect. However, this is exactly what the Minister refuses to do, which is why I am asking for it in a motion of recommendation to this government. After all, we cannot be supposed to act unconstitutionally. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not wish Tindemans to be more blissful in his grave, then you can only support the motion of recommendation to honour Article 10, second paragraph of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u43	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u44	Yes 91 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u45	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions on 21 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions of 21 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 37/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sophie Thémont. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 37/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sophie Thémont. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the time the Michael administration raised the retirement age to 67 years, promising that this would not apply to those who had been at risk of mental and physical stress throughout their lives. This promise has not yet come into the house in 2020. Minister Lalieux spoke in committee about possible pension reforms in 2021, but as far as we are concerned, it is not understandable that the regime for heavy-duty professions was not included in the government agreement. Prime Minister De Croo even felt it was necessary to inform the press that he had always warned that such list of heavy professions would not succeed. More than that, he condone his verdict by stating that everyone finds their profession a heavy occupation. During the committee, Minister Lalieux stated that a heavy occupation was given subjectively. But explain that to a construction worker who literally crooked himself in the wind and weather. Explain that to a port worker who's risking his life every day for his job. Explain that to emergency personnel who take serious risks to perform their job properly. Explain that, especially in this corona time, to everyone who is now doing a job in the care sector. No, I don't think everyone's gonna find their profession a hard job. In the meantime, we all know what a heavy occupation is and by whom it is exercised. First of all, I am thinking of the care sector, our corona heroes. They have barely recovered from the impact of the first COOVID wave and face the second wave with their eyes shining. Many of these nurses and caregivers have just not succumbed to the pressure of work and emotional pressure. They are now once again in front of each of us in the line of fire. With this motion, we are asking for work to be done on the heavy professions. Everyone in this hemisphere agrees on what efforts are currently being made by many sectors. Give the corona heroes, but also all employees in the sectors where a heavy occupation is pursued, to which they are entitled. Not words, but deeds!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u47	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u48	Yes 112 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u49	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 21 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 21 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 39/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 39/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u50	I do not need to remind you that consumer and entrepreneur confidence has been seriously damaged by the COOVID-19 outbreak. Witness to this are the graphs in the various press releases of the National Bank of Belgium. An overall decline in aggregate demand leads to a fall in prices and resulting deflation. The longer, the more companies are in difficulty and the government's temporary measures will prove insufficient. As a result, thousands of bankruptcies and lost jobs will result in a correction of the aggregation offer and the price level will then be restored. In any case, we must dare to be honest with regard to bankruptcies. In order to avoid this, we need to create an environment in which the confidence of consumers and entrepreneurs is restored as quickly as possible. Mr Dermagne's answer to my interplay was not reassuring. In fact, he confirmed my position that in the government the economy is treated as in a Mexican army by referring to various ministers and secretaries of state. How could it be otherwise, when we are talking about three ministers? As far as we are concerned, that is not efficient. In view of the problems outlined, we must now take action. In other words, we must immediately develop a recovery plan for consumer and entrepreneurial confidence and maintain aggregate demand. We must look at the necessary economic levers which must have a vibrant impact on the decline in aggregate supply. I therefore ask you to reject the simple motion and not to move on to the order of the day, ladies and gentlemen, but to support our motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u51	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u52	Yes 110 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u53	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 21 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 21 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 46/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 46/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Patrick Prévot. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not always easy to find a balance between economics and health. We're facing a very difficult task today. As regards the preparations for the second wave in the health field, we must also note that this government has failed. But what also threatens to fail is the economic system. We therefore believe that sufficient action should be taken now. After all, this new wave will also affect the current economy that is already struggling. The painful but necessary measures, which were, moreover, good, will be insufficient to prevent bankruptcies. With this new wave in mind, we believe that these temporary measures are not enough and that, in addition to the coronados, many companies will also be carried to the economic cemetery. The water is on the lips of the companies and a lot of jobs are on the slopes. That is why we are calling for immediate action. We must not only create a new lockdown, but we must also do everything we can to reduce the economic damage caused by this second wave. We must establish an objective framework for the sectors which are seriously affected so that they can be identified and we can consult them. We are therefore also asking for an additional package of aid measures to safeguard the liquidity position of our companies, so that they will have more chances of survival in the coming difficult months. The simple motion shows that you do not take the problem seriously or sufficiently seriously and leave our economy, the entrepreneurs and their employees in the cold. We can only hope that you will reject the simple motion and support our motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u55	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u56	Yes 91 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u57	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 21 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 21 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 38/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf and Ms. Kathleen Verhelst. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 38/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mrs Kathleen Verhelst. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know from the various debates and interplays that have taken place in the past, the Flemish interest is paying close attention to the sectors in this country that are affected by the measures taken to combat COOVID-19. We are not only in favour of the forgotten sectors, but also of the catering industry. Ladies and gentlemen, we must honestly acknowledge that the way they have been hit again was not very nice. We must certainly respect those involved, the capital they have invested and, therefore, the 135 000 workers they employ. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the fact that a large part of the resolution unanimously adopted here on 11 June 2020 is in progress. We also call for it to continue to be faithfully implemented by the current government. In addition, we naturally welcome the EUR 500 million in additional measures for the catering and events sector, but also for breeders. The Flemish Interest proposes a number of important complementary measures, which should help the sector. We are thinking, among other things, of the fines for late payment of VAT for the third quarter, almost at the time when the lockdown for the sector was announced. I am thinking, among other things, of postponing the payment of VAT for the fourth quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. Also a further neutralisation of the bonification and the opposite increase for the fourth quarter of 2020 for corporate and personal taxation. We must also strive as far as possible with the sub-governments to provide the maximum possible compensation for the existing fixed costs. We also call for a'small credit corona' to be set up, so that the many small catering companies can receive the necessary support for small bridging credits of between EUR 10,000 and EUR 50,000. We are of course in favour of our motion. Hopefully you will also be thinking about the affected sector and we can count on your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u59	Madam President, I would just like to point out that, since the committee, Mr. Van Lommel has changed his tone and justifies the simple motion, since he has just recognized all the work he has done. It's not over: we're continuing the work. So we are proposing a simple motion, because we are working and not talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u60	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u61	Yes [[114]] Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u62	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda of 21 October 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda of 21 October 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 40/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf and Ms. Kathleen Verhelst. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 40/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mrs Kathleen Verhelst. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you are no doubt aware, the construction sector is often regarded as a barometer of the general state of the economy in our country. Many construction companies saw their order book shrink in the past period and see the future as not very bright. In this sector, too, many bankruptcies are expected. The regions have a lot of powers in this area, but the federal government still has enough levers to take measures that can help certain sectors to overcome crises such as the current ones. However, Minister Clarinval's response to my speech was not very hopeful. He only referred to some general measures taken so far, while we believe that some quick wins can be achieved for the sector. To this end, we have included in our motion for a recommendation four very specific measures, which we are now putting to the vote. From the federal powers, we must ensure as much as possible that investments have a positive impact on the construction sector. Following the example of the 2008 crisis, we are also asking for a temporary reduction in the VAT rate on new construction of private homes from 21 % to 6% on the first disc of 60,000 euros. We also call for the competition caused by social dumping to be dealt with without delay. We call for the Posting of Workers Directive to be revised and for payments of social security contributions to be made compulsory in Belgium. The government announced in the government agreement a decrease in the VAT rate to 6% for demolition and reconstruction. We ask that we do not wait a year or two more. We must implement this as quickly as possible so that the construction sector receives the necessary oxygen. Colleagues, these measures seem to me to be the logic itself. We ask you to support our motion so that the sector can get the necessary oxygen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u64	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u65	Yes 90 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u66	Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2.(1365/11) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2.(1365/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[18]] Yes No. 107 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 17 by Steven Creyelman cs to Article 12.(1365/11) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Steven Creyelman cs on article 12.(1365/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 126 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Steven Creyelman cs to Article 12.(1365/11) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Steven Creyelman cs on article 12.(1365/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u67	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u68	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u69	Vote on Amendment No 14 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2.(1532/6) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2.(1532/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Vote on Amendment No 13 by Sander Loones to Article 2.(1532/6) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2.(1532/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Sander Loones to Article 2.(1532/6) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Sander Loones on Article 2.(1532/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u70	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Sander Loones to Article 2.(1532/6) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Sander Loones on Article 2.(1532/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u71	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Sander Loones to Article 2.(1532/6) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Sander Loones on Article 2.(1532/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u72	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 2.(1532/6) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 2.(1532/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[12]] Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. The table in the annex was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. The attached table has been adopted. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u73	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 103 Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 144 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u74	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Barbara Not to Article 1.(1573/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 of Barbara Beware of Article 1.(1573/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 103 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u75	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[85]] Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u76	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 146 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be referred as a bill to the Senate. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u77	Madam President, Mr Theo Francken had a technical problem in the vote on provisional appropriations. He's been abstaining. I myself voted against that vote, which was too much. I wanted to remember.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u78	The dates that were communicated were not correct. Wrong data just got out. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, members may vote from Friday 13 November 2020 until Thursday 26 November 2020 at 4 p.m. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 October 2020, members can vote from Friday 13 November 2020 until Thursday 26 November 2020 at 4 p.m. The ballot boxes will be open during the plenary meeting on Thursday, 26 November 2020, at 4 p.m. in Room 3. The two youngest members are invited to attend the recount. The urns with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 26 November 2020 at 4 p.m. in Room 3. The youngest two members are invited to attend. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I would also like to thank you for complying with the safety instructions. I would add that, in view of the reduction in the number of Members present in this House next week, Parliament will be working in closed offices and at a distance, with the exception of the Health Committee, which will meet on Tuesday for a topical debate on VOCID-19. This discussion will also be conducted by videoconference. The House is part of the collective effort to try to reduce contact and reduce the risk of the virus spreading.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-29-55-plenair-ip067x.u79	We must approve the agenda for the sitting on Thursday, 12 November 2020. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 12 November 2020. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 12, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 November 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
