ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u1	Dear members, whether you are here in the room or on Zoom, we will begin this session. A little confusion has taken place. The programme well announces an exchange of views. In this context, everyone can take part in the debate. Three questions were formally introduced. I will first give the floor to their three authors. But before that, the minister wishes to make a presentation, which is usual in the context of the exchange of views. This presentation will be complemented by Mr. Diricks of the AFSCA and possibly Ms. Schoubs of the Federal Internal Audit Service. Each group will then have the opportunity to intervene. I would also like to point out that I will have to leave you at about 4 p.m. Mrs. Farih will replace me as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we preferred to come to you, given the technical problems on the House site last time. We saw each other, but we heard the echoes of another committee. I don't know if you asked for an audit of IT services. I don't want to interfere with this, but that's what I heard about the moment. Blague aside, I'm going to give you a long talk. I apologize at the outset, but it is more than a year and a half that the implementation of these audits. It's time for a big show. I will of course remain available for the questions and the ensuing exchange of views. I would like to apologise to you for the length of the presentation, but you will understand that a year and a half work is not summed up in a few pages. Today's exchange of views takes place in a particular period, but it is essential in that it affects the safety and health of the citizen. I will not go back in detail to the findings made during the search on 28 February and 1 March 2018 on the website of the company Veviba in Bastogne, because everyone knows them. Before I get to the heart of the matter, I would like to briefly recall the context of the audits, which is referred to in Slide 2. These audits were requested at my initiative. With AFSCA, we are therefore the main craftsmen of their implementation. This retroact provides us with a reading grid that allows us to better understand the reform axes pointed out by the audits. We will mainly retain the offences committed by Veviba, the most serious being the recycling in the food chain of waste unfit for human consumption. I'm thinking of those famous "plains" introduced into the American net, you'll remember that. Other infringements include falsified freezing dates; the presence of products that we might call obsolete (some frozen in 2001) or non-labelled products (and hence, untraceable), etc. The judicial investigation is proceeding, so I will not go back to its elements, which you all already know. In this context of crisis, I would also like to thank AFSCA for its work. It should be noted that, despite the coronavirus pandemic, the Agency continued to play its full role and stood alongside the companies affected by the crisis through its accompanying mission and administrative simplification measures. We are continuing our work with the Agency to explore ways to further expand these support measures. For 20 years, AFSCA has been on the front line to ensure food security. It is worth recalling the latest AFSCA perception survey, which shows that 88% of consumers consider AFSCA to be an indispensable body for food safety. But the AFSCA also means being next to small farmers, small businesses and self-employed, via the extension and accompaniment unit. As you know, this cell did not exist and was set up under the last legislature. It embodies the Agency's accompanying role, which we want to see grow. With this unit, the AFSCA helps operators understand and implement sometimes complex regulations in their businesses, in terms of self-control, as well as traceability, as well as mandatory notification. This is essential in terms of labelling. According to the latest satisfaction survey, 94% of operators believe that AFSCA contributes to improving the safety of the food chain and the reliability of products marketed in Belgium. It is important to remind him. AFSCA is also an issue of animal health, including the fight against African swine fever. Through coordinated action by the Agency and regional services, we have been able to preserve the 6 million domestic pigs living in our territory and protect 15,000 jobs in the sector. We hope that by the end of autumn Belgium will be able to recover its general status free of PPPs. As you know, the European Commission has recently accepted the Belgian proposal to reduce the infected area in South Luxembourg. AFSCA is finally supporting our exports and therefore our farmers. Thus, in 2018, the BeCert application, designed to digitise the certification process for exports to third countries, issued no fewer than 16,415 certificates. As a result of the fraud committed at Veviba, I had decided to have two audits carried out, which had to be objective and independent for me. The Council of Ministers approved my proposal, which I also submitted to the Chamber. The first audit concerned the internal organisation of the Agency. The second audit concerned the control process in the meat sector. When I decided to have these audits carried out, I immediately informed Parliament that I wanted to be as transparent as possible. The work runs of the audits were discussed extensively in your committee from March 2018. Subsequently, the reports of the two audits were presented in December 2018. Now it is time for a state of play of a process that ends at the end of 2020. The performance of these two audits was entrusted to the Federal Internal Audit (FIA). This independent body aims to improve the functioning of the federal government services. The calendar for integrating the recommendations, as laid down by the Federal Internal Audit, will run until the end of 2020. The work isn't over yet. There's still a lot to do. As agreed with the FIA, the BFSA has until the end of 2020 to implement the remaining recommendations. I would like to emphasise once again the efforts of the BFSA in carrying out these audits. As you know, we have been in business since the end of December 2018 and the policy of the government appointed in March is exclusively devoted to managing the COOVID-19 crisis, which, of course, limits the government's scope for manoeuvre. After all, it is not possible to take new legislative or regulatory initiatives, which limits the scope for implementing all the recommendations. Nevertheless, the BFSA has already implemented a large part of the measures that respond to the recommendations of the Federal Internal Audit. The report of the Federal Internal Audit shows that an implementation calendar was established. I am very satisfied with the percentage of the recommendations implemented by the BFSA. After all, the Federal Internal Audit indicated that the Agency was able to finalise the required actions for 53 out of 57 recommendations for 2019. That is a percentage of 93 %. We achieve the right result of 93% for 2019. That is an answer to one of your questions, Mrs Jiroflée. With regard to the remaining 4 of the 57 recommendations that were agreed in 2019, most of the actions are underway, but the Agency has not yet been able to complete them for perfectly justified reasons. Indeed, in the specific case of the two recommendations on communication, the evaluation of the unit responsible for communication has already been carried out by the Federal Internal Audit Service. She stressed that more staff was needed to carry out all the communication tasks. This is an example of action that can only be taken by the next full-fledged government. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, recruiting staff is not part of the prerogatives of a government in day-to-day business. That is why a full-fledged government will have to remedy this. The other two recommendations developed by the Federal Internal Audit Service, which have naturally begun to be implemented by the Agency, relate to mission managers. The federal Internal Audit Service will only be able to confirm that the objectives have been met by the end of the year if everything has been done to meet them. I turn to the rate of implementation of the recommendations to be implemented by the end of the year, which has been prepared by the Federal Internal Audit Service in collaboration with the AFSCA. The last evaluation showed that, at the beginning of May, the Agency had already incorporated no less than 38% of the recommendations – 19 out of 50. Of course, the aim is to meet the timetable. As I said, we are working on this implementation, which is still under way. AFSCA has been in existence for 20 years. I am convinced that the implementation of audit recommendations will only make it more effective and effective and will only improve its functioning. That said, it is probably important to recall how these audits – which also highlighted extremely positive aspects – were able to highlight the high quality of the work of the AFSCA and its agents (cf. Slide 6). The organizational audit opened with a finding that should be recalled. He mentioned, I quote, the Federal Internal Audit Service: "The Agency has organized its operations so as to carry out the tasks and achieve the objectives imposed by law." He goes on to say that "while the following aspects have had an impact on the efficiency and effectiveness of certain files or transactions, they have in no way undermined the achievement of the Agency's mission and objectives as a whole." The auditors then referred to a series of strengths of the Agency: the Agency's expertise, whether in the head of the national investigation unit, inspectors or laboratories; the transparency and publication of a significant amount of information to the consumer; regular consultations with the sectors; the existence of an independent and efficient mediation service; the efforts to digitise the control processes which now offer opportunities for global analysis; the quality of the analyses carried out by its laboratories. (cf. slide n° 7) I thanked the AFSCA, but I also want to thank the Federal Internal Audit Service for its work. The service has not only provided us with two very exhaustive reports which are particularly precise and which were presented to you here in Parliament in 2018. These reports have enabled us to go deeper into the functioning of the Agency and, in addition to the many positive points, to identify a number of improvements. The Federal Internal Audit has intervened on a permanent basis and has accompanied the Agency in every step of the process of integrating the recommendations. A steering group has worked out the reforms. This committee, composed of representatives from the AFSCA, the Federal Internal Audit Service, the Animal, Plant and Food Branch, the FPS Public Health and my firm, met eleven times in 2019 and four times since the beginning of 2020. It is this constructive cooperation that allows you to present such positive statistics today, while the work is not yet done. The auditors made no less than 98 recommendations, translated into 107 actions. See slide 9. Of course, it was an extensive project. The Steering Committee worked quickly so that the implementation of the first reform thrust could be quickly proposed. They can be grouped into 13 axes that I will now cross with you. You can now see these 13 axes on slide 10. The first axis I shall come back to is, of course, the fight against fraud. The strengthening of communication and the exchange of information with the various partners is a priority. Mrs Jiroflée, it is in these axes that you will find answers to your questions about the evolution of cooperation between the BFSA, the police and the Justice Department in the field of food safety. Indeed, as early as spring 2018, I had proposed to my colleague in the Department of Justice that the College of Attorneys General and the AFSCA should be brought together in order to optimize communication between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Investigation Unit (UNE) in this type of case. We saw that it was also this lack of information between our services that caused the problem. That was the way to begin to act. On June 20, 2019, the process culminated in the adoption of a circular clarifying the collaboration between the Agency and Justice. That is an essential point. It's one of the hearts of the Veviba case. It is recalled that no less than 18 months were needed between the first findings of crimes in Kosovo in September 2016 – at a time when I was not even in charge – and the searches ordered by the Court that took place from 28 February to 1 March. A year and a half would not be possible today. That's what I mean by starting with, about the work being done. In fact, the FFSCA National Investigation Unit has developed a comprehensive procedure to determine the urgency of the files on the basis of a risk assessment. It must communicate this analysis to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Given the legal and scientific complexity of investigations in this area, another initiative is at the heart of the new system. It leads to the presence of a reference magistrate appointed within each public prosecutor's office and the public prosecutor's office. This is in place to respond to recommendations made by the Federal Internal Audit Service. Another key element is cooperation between the actors involved in the fight against health fraud. The Pharma and Foodcrime Platform has been set up in the same spirit. This structure brings together customs, AFMPS, AFSCA and the federal police. It ensures a better exchange and flow of information, but above all a better coordination of the fight against fraud, under the supervision of a specialist reference magistrate. I also wanted to strengthen the National Investigation Unit, which, as you know, has extensive expertise in the fight against fraud. In this context, I had obtained an additional budget of EUR 2 million, which almost doubled the number of UNE staff. The UNE has thus increased from 18 agents in January 2018 to 33 employees today. These recruitments were of course carried out on the basis of the allocation of this budget. This represents an increase of more than 83% in UNE staff. The strengthening of staff, for example, has made it possible to strengthen controls in our ports and airports. No less than 778 non-compliant or suspicious pesticides have recently been seized by the NOE (National Investigation Unit). This shows that the additional resources were necessary and paid off. It also underlines the excellent cooperation between the Agency and the other services responsible for combating fraud and crime in the field of sanitation. Slide 12 sketches the second axis: the anti-pairing of crises. The Federal Internal Audit had formulated three recommendations on the political crisis, which were addressed. Firstly, a crisis and an incident need to be better defined. Secondly, a framework must be created to make better use of signals from a possible crisis. Finally, a procedure should be developed to monitor developments and manage the crisis in the event of an incident. In order to meet the recommendations made by the Federal Internal Audit, the BFSA based itself on the analysis of the practices in the slaughterhouse Veviba in Bastenaken. The BFSA has learned several lessons from it, enabling it today to better anticipate any event that could lead to a crisis situation. The Agency has reviewed and refined several crisis management instruments, including the General Crisis Manual, which contains all the elements necessary to manage a crisis or incident. A definition of what could constitute a crisis has been established and it is now the same for all parties concerned. The detection of early signals for an incident or crisis.... in the jargon of crisis management becomes that the capture of potential crisis signals..... has become more effective. The signals are detected and identified earlier so that they can be adequately responded to. Prior to the audit, during the fipronil and Veviba crises, despite the signals, it was not possible to initiate those crisis management processes. The above-mentioned improvements now allow for a faster response as early as the detection of the first signals and for the more effective mobilization of the various stakeholders, from the controller to the management. A formal framework now provides for the role of the contact point, which is the single point of contact for the Consumer Agency. This framework also allows for faster notification of potential crisis signals. It was created and included in the Crisis Manual. The capture of crisis signals, which determine what an incident can indicate a crisis, is still the subject of a thought exercise at Sciensano. An example from the Veviba affair is the discovery of non-compliant goods in a truck controlled abroad. The Federal Internal Audit Service wishes to go even further in the definitions of incidents that may reveal a crisis at the outset of the signals collected and in a more cross-cutting way with other public institutions. This work will have to be carried out by the end of 2020. Mrs Jiroflée, this also answers your question about the coordination of crisis management. The third axis concerns the organisation of the AFSCA and is the subject of important recommendations. I refer you to Slide 13 to clarify this. A schematic table gives you a better perception of the different departments that make up the Agency and their mutual relations. The recommendations of the Federal Internal Audit Service stressed the importance of the organization of the AFSCA being adapted and optimized in-house (slide n°14), in particular between the various directorates-general but also in order to further improve its relations with the executive. In response to these recommendations, I was able to sign a protocol with AFSCA to improve communication between it and the firm. This protocol has benefited from the clarification of the various crises we have experienced and the recommendations of these audits. I am not afraid to say that in 20 years of existence, it is probably the most successful protocol that has existed between the Minister and this Agency. To encourage and nurture participatory culture – it is an element that has returned to the discussions within the AFSCA – and in order to also encourage discussions between the Directors General, a new strategic unit has been created and is now operational. The division of controls between DG Control and DG Control Policy, with the roles assigned to us in the observations we had made with AFSCA and also in the discussions we had, was sometimes confusing, according to the auditors. A reorganization, approved by the PSAB Steering Committee, took place to meet the recommendations of the Federal Audit Service. Before proceeding to the Agency's proposed solutions, I would like to point out that for each recommendation put on the table by the Federal Independent Audit Service, the PSAB is required to make a proposal determining the way forward to meet the entire recommendation. The Agency's proposed solutions to this issue have made it possible to clarify the roles of each, while instilling in management a renewed vision that takes into account the Agency's different competencies. The Federal Internal Audit Service had identified insufficient collaboration between the mission managers of the independent certifying agencies and the AFSCA auditors. In response to this recommendation of the Federal Internal Audit Service, which called for improved collaboration between the various supervisory actors within the Agency, each of these actors is now integrated into an information communication chain. AFSCA has implemented procedures to improve its internal communication through a better division of labour. Initiatives to achieve greater uniformity in the manner in which controls are carried out by the different local control units will include. To this end, the AFSCA has carried out a real review of its operations so that this improvement in the collaboration between the supervisory actors, recommended by the Federal Audit Service, is taken into account consistently over time and in the long term. The Federal Internal Audit Service had also made several recommendations regarding the perception of the independence of employees and third parties in the service of the Agency. Important new steps have been taken to address these recommendations. It should be noted, inter alia, that the obligation to produce a certificate of independence will be repeated on a regular basis for mission managers. Staff will be regularly informed, on a regular basis, of the obligations to be followed in this regard. Since 2004, business plans have described AFSCA's strategy over a three-year period. They are also approved by the appropriate Minister. The Federal Internal Audit Service recommended that these business plans be always validated. In order to meet these recommendations, I have approved the latest business plan. I have made sure that these documents refer explicitly to the two audits. I now come to the fourth important axis, namely the communication of the agency (new slide). This is, of course, an extremely important issue, because when it comes to health safety, the agency must be well understood by the partner organisations and operators, but also, and above all, by consumers. However, while considerable efforts have already been made following the fipronil fraud, with a series of concrete results, the Federal Internal Audit has identified four improvement slopes at the level of la strategie, les objectifs, la programming et les moyens humains. In order to meet the recommendations of the Federal Internal Audit, a real communication strategy has been developed that is currently being implemented to better meet the needs of the Agency in terms of consumer and stakeholder awareness. A number of actions have been identified and implemented with the support of an external communication office. Today, thanks to the integrated audits and recommendations, the AFSCA has a new website that is attractive, easy to access and specifically intended for the consumer with clear and easily understandable information. This site www.onderdeloep.be did not exist in the past. We have a wonderful tool here. The returns we have are excellent. The BFSA has also become more proactive in its communication. An evaluation is now being carried out by an external consultant. However, the Federal Internal Audit considered that other measures would make it possible to develop a genuine global communication strategy, such as clear communication objectives. The BFSA has already recorded it. In order to meet the recommendations of the Federal Internet Audit, an annual programme should also be drawn up on the basis of the different target groups, whether consumers or the sectors concerned, and the different messages sent to them. Those recommendations have already been partially met today. It also implies, according to the Federal Internal Audit Service, that the communication unit should be strengthened. This will necessarily have to be a measure met by a full-fledged government that will have engaged in recruitment. All these actions are in the direction of a clearer, more responsive, more accessible communication, more accessible to everyone, more targeted both for the consumer and for all stakeholders in the agri-food sector. The fifth focus is on control policy. Slide 16, the Federal Internal Audit had also stressed the importance of improving the analysis of data from the work of inspectors, auditors and MET. Beyond the quality system of DG Control (ISO17020), which already provides for supervisory mechanisms for auditors, inspectors and mission managers, the AFSCA has implemented the recommendation of the Federal Internal Audit Service by creating a data analysis and integration unit, composed of four employees and previously non-existent, which will respond to the recommendations made by the IAF. The aim is to further ensure the monitoring of the independence of inspectors and mission managers. This is essential, as anomalies can be highlighted through the use of data recorded by field officers. Let's take an example. If one finds that an operator is controlled by two agents, with the key sometimes systematic sanctions, sometimes a complete absence of sanctions, this will naturally attract the attention of the process. This type of anomaly will now be automatically detected. Regardless of the area of control, several initiatives have been taken since the Veviba fraud case to ensure that the controller, inspector or mission manager can perform this task objectively and independently using a clear and neutral vision. For example, for the distribution sector, in large cities, AFSCA agents regularly change areas in order to preserve their independence from operators. It is a rotation system that AFSCA wants to continue to develop. Attention: This principle already existed before the audits, but was reinforced in response to recommendations developed by the Federal Internal Audit Service (FAI). There is also a computer application called Planifood. This application establishes a proposal for a weekly inspection schedule, according to the inspection plans. The time frame and operators to be checked are determined here by a calculation using criteria, such as the operator's activities, the frequency of inspection of its activities, the results of the last missions as well as the results of audits. The application assigns inspections to controllers and inspectors based on their specialization and the operators in the area they have to control. There is therefore a distribution of work in this field which takes place on a completely neutral basis. This is obviously extremely important. This planning cannot be modified to ensure that officers will not always inspect the same companies. In addition, the Federal Internal Audit Service had recommended an increase in the number of unannounced inspections of self-control systems. I know that this is an important subject for many parliamentarians. AFSCA anticipated this request and introduced the unannounced audit system without prior notification. This is also an important step forward. And, in order to respond to the recommendations made by the Federal Internal Audit Service, another issue of control policy, as identified by the Veviba case, is the faster identification of fraud signals. This recommendation has already been met. As I have already mentioned, the AFSCA has specifically included the fraud aspect in the inspections. In this way, it will now be guaranteed that the National Investigation Unit (UNE) will be represented on technical consultation committees where the checklists – the checklists that are the controller's roadmaps in the field – are drawn up and discussed, as well as on the management consultation committee where the lists are checked and officially approved. Another essential element I want to draw your attention to is the modification of the checklists. They have become dynamic and adapted to specific situations in order to better detect aspects of fraud or non-compliance. In other words, the checklists are no longer rigid but adapt to the background, weaknesses of the operator, type of targeted infringement, fraud signals and the control sector. We now have a new generation of checklists. Let us illustrate the above with a concrete example: a fraudster adds sulphite to American net to give it a fresh appearance – a practice that, as everyone knows, is strictly prohibited. With the dynamic checklist system, questions in this regard will be automatically included in the checklists for all operators likely to be affected by this type of fraud. In other words, control is much more targeted than before. All these achievements must enable the AFSCA to be even more responsive as soon as the first signs of fraud appear and to quickly reinforce the objective and unannounced nature of the controls. The sixth axis concerns sanctions. As you know, I have paid a great deal of attention to the fact that, in addition to its sanctioning role, the Agency can increase its supporting and advisory role, especially for the smallest operators. To align the control policy of the BFSA with the size of the operators is a question of logic and fairness, which also reflects Mrs Jiroflée's question. In order to meet the recommendations of the Federal Internal Audit, we have developed a complete sanction policy with a more proportionate and gradual approach to distinguish between crime and small non-conformitys that do not directly endanger the health of consumers. There are two different things: fraud and negligence. For example, a rust spot on the foot of a table does not of course have the same gravity as a rusty cutting tool. It is necessary to adapt according to the consequences: corrosion is emphasized in the framework of the controls but these are two different things. This is not new, the offences found in the food chain can be subject to an administrative sanction, the payment of which by the offender extinguishes the public action. In doing so, the Agency shall take into account, in particular, the individual situations of the offenders, the seriousness and number of infringements and their impact on consumer health, animal health, plant health and the possible recidivism, which is also a common phenomenon. If the measures are gradual, it remains important to be able to enforce the standard. For example, in cases where the AFSCA has accompanied, advised or alerted, it happens regularly that after two years, the efforts have not yet been made by the operator. At that point, as a last resort, you have to close. It is useful to remind him. In terms of proportionality, we also ensure that sanctions after an infringement or fraud are more proportionate to the financial gain for the fraudsters. Moreover, the system of fines must be dissuasive. Where a report of infringement is made, action must be taken. That is why, in order to meet the recommendations of the FIA and pending a full government, we have prepared a draft law that will enable the criminal consequences of the cases to be dealt with. The absence of a full-fledged government will not allow us to go any further at this time. However, we have wanted to move as far as possible. I have been able to finalize and transmit a royal order which provides for the appointment of several administrative fines commissioners within the Agency. He is, at this stage, with my colleague from Justice. A better follow-up of the fines file will also meet the recommendations of the Federal Internal Audit Service in this regard. The seventh axis is of great interest to Parliament, as we have seen (slide n°18). This is self-monitoring and all the measures taken by an operator to ensure that their products meet the regulatory requirements for food safety. The main objective of this self-control system is therefore to control all the dangers that the operator may encounter through the production, processing and distribution process. It means ensuring food security at all times. As you know, Veviba, like more than 25,000 companies in Belgium, operated on the basis of a validated self-checking system. Mrs Gijbels, you have been interested in this in your questions. As I said, that instrument played a decisive role in the detection of fipronil fraud in the summer of 2017. Over the years, we have seen that the results of the missions are much more favourable in establishments with a validated auto-control system. In 2018, there were 88.7% favourable controls in establishments with a validated self-checking system, compared to 63.7% in establishments without a certified self-checking system. There is a substantial difference. This fact encourages us to meet the recommendation of the Federal Internal Audit Service, set for the end of 2020, to examine the possibility of making this validation mandatory in the long term, with the prior definition of a critical size and a relevant risk profile. It is possible for the operator to have his self-checking system validated by the AFSCA or by an independent certifying body. This is a Belgian specificity, and it helps operators to achieve their food safety objective even better. In order to respond, by the end of 2020, to the recommendations of the Federal Internal Audit Service, the monitoring of self-monitoring by independent certifying bodies requires further guidance on the quality and consistency of the quality of inspections. The monitoring of the non-conformities identified above must be able to be used by the Agency's inspectors when re-checking. In order to meet these recommendations, the BFSA has in this respect different standardised checklists to ensure the uniformity of controls. This should enable the Agency to concentrate on specific points on checklists that are now better adapted. The reporting obligation, which applies both to an OCI and to an operator, is the logical addition to the system. They must both immediately inform the BFSA when they think that a product or a serious non-conformity may be dangerous for health. The PSAC has complied with the recommendation of the Federal Audit Service by asking some targeted questions that take into account the deficiencies previously identified in order to verify the implementation of an action plan. Now, and although serious non-conformities identified during an audit by an independent certifying body are notified, the AFSCA inspectors also verify the outcome of the last audit during their inspection. This is a further improvement that is being implemented. On slide 19 you will see the eighth axis, the MET claims, another important point. In the context of their mandate to the BFSA, the objectivity and neutrality of MET should not be questioned. Any conflict of interest should be excluded. Mrs Jiroflée asked whether cooperation with MET should be re-defined. Prior to the fraud committed by Veviba, only a certificate of independence was requested in the selection of MET. In order to respond to the recommendations made by the Federal Internal Audit Service (FAI), the AFSCA is now going further, with a view to better guaranteeing the independence and objectivity of its external collaborators. This is one of the key points of the debate. On the other hand, we note that one of the flaws at the origin of the Veviba case is now being addressed. An enforcement agreement on the absence of a conflict of interest is now part of the framework agreement signed by the Head of Mission. In other words, the latter undertakes to notify the sponsor without delay of any form of conflict of interest and to take, on its own initiative, the measures necessary for the performance of its mission if it considers it necessary to discharge it. This is therefore a fundamental step forward. In the event of a non-positive assessment of a mission officer, the AFSCA may take several measures, ranging from warning to breach of contract. In addition, in order to meet the recommendations of the Federal Internal Audit for the objectives to be achieved in 2020, the BFSA has set up a working group to review the entire MET policy. Prior to the Veviba affair, the follow-up of the MET claims was carried out at the level of the local control units, in addition to their contract reports. Drawing lessons from this fraud and in response to the recommendations of the Federal Internal Audit Service, the Agency has decided to improve centralization, standardization of information for HOM missions. This will allow for a better assessment of HOMs in the short term than they were, and will provide centralized data for the follow-up of HOMs of the AFSCA inspectors. A ninth axis is that relating to the improvement of databases. Since its creation in 2000, the Agency has developed, according to its needs, several IT applications. The specific nature of the issues and the many powers of the Agency are mobilising and generating more and more information. The needs at the time of the establishment of the Agency 20 years ago are no longer those of today or tomorrow. In response to the recommendations made by the Internal Audit Service, the Agency has modernized its tools to better prepare missions and achieve better monitoring of tasks. Agents need to be able to view data from different applications on a single screen. Here I want to pin the creation of a dashboard, which is currently being tested and which we have called "Control-e". This application will allow – from this year onwards for controllers and early 2021 for border inspection posts – to visualize the data in a way other than with conventional applications. We will therefore give visibility to the work done on the ground. The continuous development of the information technology service now takes better account of the demand of the agents, thanks to its improvement. In implementing this IAF recommendation, we have therefore relied on the needs of the field. This is obviously fundamental to such a system. As with other recommendations, contact with the field has been essential in order to hear and trace requests and information in order to detect fraud. The tenth axis represents the training. Another important theme cited by the Federal Internal Audit concerned the training of the employees of the BFSA. Initially, the Federal Internal Audit recommended the integration of the results of the auto-audits into the BFSA inspections and controls. The Agency has set up training courses for auditors, inspectors and MET to meet that recommendation. Until now, this dimension has not been integrated for all employees involved in a control process. However, early detection of fraud is of course essential, as the recommendations point out. The IAF also insisted on more training in the detection of fraud signals. In response to this recommendation, as early as 2019, the Agency has put in place additional training on the detection of fraud signals to UNE agents. Investing through human training for AFSCA field officers is an important dimension. This training is not going to stop there. In order to ensure a chain of transmission of knowledge, training and skills of all staff involved in checks and inspections, training of controllers and inspectors will be provided by UNE staff themselves. Trained in detecting fraud signals, the latter – with the added value of their field experience – will bring a practical dimension to training for agents who are in direct contact with operators. In order to meet the FIA's recommendations on crisis management, I will also add that there is also training for the staff who will work in the crisis centre and that other training for them will be continued as included in the 2020 strategic training plan. A recommendation of the Federal Internal Audit Service finally indicated that it was necessary, in addition to technical training, to also provide training in behavioural skills, called soft skills, such as managing the relationship with the controlled person. That has been done. The 11th axis concerns committees and committees. As you know, the BFSA has three committees: an advisory committee, a scientific committee and an audit committee. The Agency also has two committees: a professional and an evaluation committee. The Federal Internal Audit recommended adjusting the functioning of the different structures in order to increase transparency, independence and efficiency. In order to meet the FIA's recommendations, both the audit committee and the advisory committee have introduced a self-evaluation of their functioning and of the legislation. In its evaluation, the IAF thus confirmed that the Agency's Audit Committee was necessary for the proper functioning of the Agency, in particular because of its role in improving the quality of the Agency's operations, another positive point noted during the audits. The Federal Internal Audit Service has issued a recommendation to further improve cooperation between the AFSCA internal services and the Advisory Committee, in which the various sectors and regions are represented. In response to this recommendation, the Agency will continue to be fully open and attentive to the proposals made by the Agency throughout its activities and work. Ongoing evaluations will also have to be submitted no later than December 31, 2020, as set out in the schedule for integrating identified recommendations with the Federal Internal Audit Service (FAS). The penultimate axis relates to the question of laboratories. This question, I remember correctly, Mr President, is one of the subjects that had been discussed during the eight or nine hours we had spent in committee. As part of the control processes, the IAF stressed in particular that "given the importance of reliable analyses in the framework of self-control systems, minimum quality can improve the reliability of these systems". In its recommendations, the Federal Internal Audit also stressed the importance of ensuring the independence of the labs for counter-expertises and national reference labs in relation to first-line labs. In response to this recommendation on the question of the independence of laboratories among themselves and also in relation to operators, an evaluation was carried out by the AFSCA. As indicated by the Federal Internal Audit Service (FAI), the Belgian Accreditation Agency (BELAC), which is independent of AFSCA, will work in consultation with it to formulate the modalities for the implementation of its recommendations, with a view to implementation by the end of 2020. A further recommendation will therefore have to be implemented, as planned with the Internal Audit Service, by the end of the year. I come to the importance, in terms of laboratory policy, of the reliability of the analyses mentioned by the IAF, as I have indicated to you. The Internal Audit Service recommended that laboratories used by operators in the context of self-monitoring must have a quality management system accredited in accordance with ISO 17025. In order to respond to the recommendation of the Federal Internal Audit Service, a preliminary draft Order was prepared to require this accreditation. It should be noted, however, that if this preliminary draft is ready, it cannot be taken in a current business context. Indeed, this is a new initiative, a new legislation that goes beyond the framework in which the government is working today. With regard to these laboratories still involved in self-monitoring, the IAF recommended that the feasibility of a notification obligation be assessed by these laboratories, regardless of the outcome of the risk analysis. This is an important issue. The assessment of these recommendations has led to the conclusion that the implementation of these notifications as such, and therefore in a systematic manner, could be difficult given the wide range and nature of the information generated. However, it may be possible to find a solution through operators rather than laboratories. But I will come to this at the level of the following recommendation. I would add that implementing this mandatory notification decision will be complicated, for the following reason: if operators have to carry out analyses abroad, a European framework is needed to ensure that the results of a Belgian operator carried out in a foreign laboratory will be notified to the national agency. We made this observation during the fipronil crisis. It's a solution that we don't have alone. I have written to the European Commissioner in order to stimulate debate on this subject at European level. I come to the last point: controls in the meat sector. Not the whole meat sector is like the company Veviba. Most of the sector does its work entirely according to the rules for the valorisation of the noble product that is meat, but of course we did not have to wait for the audits, as you will remember, to respond. On my initiative, controls have been stepped up throughout the sector, in an initial phase in cutting plants, cold stores and slaughterhouses, where four additional controls per year could be programmed in each establishment thanks to the additional budget of EUR 2 million. These controls were thus strengthened in 1,975 establishments. Between the first and second wave of controls, the compliance rate increased from 73% to 87%. Finally, in a third wave of checks, the compliance rate was 92%. In short, these enhanced controls have allowed us to increase the compliance rate for these operators by almost 20%. As you can see, this represents a two-thirds decrease in the number of non-compliances between the second quarter and the fourth quarter of 2018. Following the encouraging results of this action, I asked the BFSA to include a fraud-oriented check in the annual control plan for the meat sector. During these specific checks, staff now pay more attention to the requirements for traceability and labelling and to the management of by-products, i.e. pieces that are not edible to humans. In case you don't remember, these are pieces intended, for example, for food for our pets or for the production of fertilizers for our organic vegetable and horticultural growers. The meat sector was well aware that the number of checks was a necessary step, a necessary step towards restoring consumer confidence. New types of activity were thus integrated into the second phase. We have really worked hard on targeted controls and frauds in meat preparation workshops and minced meat workshops, given what we found to be drifting from the American net in the Veviba case. While the audits have resulted in many improvements, they have mainly helped to further strengthen the work of the AFSCA officers, who have only one objective: to protect the health of the consumer. I am convinced that the improvements made through the various axes addressed by these recommendations will raise the quality of food chain control and facilitate the detection of fraud. All these areas of work contribute to further raising our level of food security. As planned with the Federal Internal Audit Service (FAI), the Agency will adapt the control programme by the end of 2020 by identifying priorities and adapting the content of inspection missions to the risk profile of operators. Thanks to the recommendations of the IAF which will be, at least we wish with the AFSCA, fully operational by the end of the year – I am thinking of the new system of adapted and dynamic checklists – the database needed to assess risk management will also be better fed. The risk analysis that will be drawn from the AFSCA will be only better. This improved performance offers more guarantees on the way to consumer protection. This will also make it possible to determine appropriate control frequencies and a more optimal use of human resources. Admittedly, there is still the issue of the management of delays in the implementation of the control plan, caused in particular by the confinement episode. A strategy was, of course, planned by the steering committee. Mr Diricks, I will let you develop this aspect. So we are two thirds of the way to implementing these essential recommendations. Finally, during the VOCID-19 pandemic and containment, AFSCA – like the companies essential to our diet – worked. I would like to point that out again. It was paradoxically an opportunity to perform life-size tests. The recommendation of the Federal Internal Audit Service was to develop checklists with smaller scopes. Of course, controls have taken place, but – given the situation – they have been organised differently. During these inspections, we obviously ensured the health protection of AFSCA personnel. I will conclude this long presentation – which Herman Diricks will of course complete – by expressing my great satisfaction and deep appreciation for the AFSCA. It has carried out a colossal work in full consultation with the various meetings that have been held, in order to be able to implement as many recommendations as possible. We're on the right track. Work must continue until the end of the year. I will note from these audits and advances that AFSCA is an essential and indispensable tool, even if it is too often caricatured. Indeed, some media tend to ignite but forget that the work of AFSCA agents on a daily basis allows the consumer to eat safely. We do not repeat it sufficiently, and we should probably do more collectively in favour of the Agency when its operation is criticized or called into question. We see and see increasingly that food security is a growing priority for Belgians, as demonstrated by the interest of parliamentarians. Food security issues and the pressure that can be exerted on the government in terms of control are indeed part of the required work of demand and performance in the area of food security. This contributes to the improvement of tools and to the strengthening of this objective of general interest, which goes beyond partisan divisions. This brings real added value that deserves to be emphasized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for this long introduction that was useful. I would ask the following speakers to be a little more succinct and to avoid repetition. We are pleased to welcome Mr. Diricks, Director of AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u4	Mr President, as requested, I will try to be brief on the points which the Minister has already addressed in detail. First, the slides show the relationship of the agency with other stakeholders. I do not want to go into too much detail about this, but the vets with orders or the order holders, chargés d'une mission, when they are not veterinarians, play an important role in the control of the agency and the certification of products exported. There is, of course, a very close link with DG Control, the department that supervises the veterinarians on assignment and the order holders. It is important that the entire ecosystem takes into account the fact that the agency has its own laboratories and also calls on external labs and on Sciensano for part of the lab work. There is also the control policy in which the controls will be programmed which will be carried out by the Control Board. The Minister also mentioned the various committees. All stakeholders, sectors and consumers are represented in the Advisory Committee. The Scientific Committee is responsible for the risk assessment and the Audit Committee is responsible for our internal audit. Among my services are quality, communication and crisis prevention and management. The professional committees or commissions of the course are linked to both the quality service and to the crisis management and prevention service. As I said, we are reviewing our system of checklists. A novelty we introduced in the audit is that we are not only looking at the history of inspections with an operator, but also at whether an operator with a validated autocontrol system has effectively implemented the action plans that he had to unfold in the context of the validation of his control system. A second important aspect in autochecking is on the next slide. This slide is mainly about auto-checking and the validation of car control systems. The Agency has already taken many initiatives to develop the validation of car control systems, to date with a few exceptions after a voluntary system. We are convinced that the Minister has already indicated this and we see every year that operators with a validated auto-control system systematically score better than an operator without an auto-control system. However, we would like to consider whether in future, for a number of specific activities, we should move away from the voluntary nature of the validation of car control systems and proceed with mandatory validation. We already have this today, for example for companies wishing to export to countries with specific requirements for exported products. In these cases, we ensure that these requirements are included in the auto-control system and validated by an OCI. I will not go into the independence of the OCIs. The Minister has already taken this into account in his presentation. It's more important to include the next slide. That's the first slide on the controls. As the Minister has just said, we are changing our overall approach in this area. The purpose of this change is to control the operators in a different way. How do we work now? For each subject, such as auto-checking, traceability, animal health or hygiene, we make separate and very comprehensive checklists with all the regulations in place so that we can check all aspects. We want to make a distinction in this: we will no longer be working purely thematically, but we will evolve towards a scope that we call the basic scope and which includes all the essential elements that must always be checked. On top of that, we would like to include a number of other scopes, which should allow us to look, on the one hand, at additional aspects, for which, for example, we need a specific diploma, namely the diploma of veterinarian, or which we are looking specifically at in the context of the monitoring of medicinal products. However, we will not do this systematically, but in a dynamic way, on the basis of a number of criteria. In addition, it is important that we include not only the classical controls but also specific actions in this approach. For example, if we identify a new problem with biocidal products, we can quickly include checklists in that system and check with the relevant companies whether the biocidal products they use are correct. This means that in future we will concentrate more on the essentials. There will also be a surprise effect because one will not always know in advance on the basis of which checklists we will check. In specific cases, we can also draw up checklists dealing with very complex regulations, for example with the microbiological checks to be carried out in certain transformation companies. This also allows us to monitor specific aspects, such as the monitoring of sulphites, on the basis of what we learn on the ground. Then I'll get to the next slide. I would like to comment on the adjustments that we have made to the controls. The inspector used to look at the previous results. We have now systematically built that into our checklists. We have also launched an important project within the NOE. One of the recommendations of the FIA was that we should not only look at the data that can be collected as part of the inspections, but also try to include other elements. We have set up a first pilot project through the NOE. We are going to see if there are other data, such as socio-economic data, that we can use, and that is an innovative approach to ascertain whether certain operators are at higher risk of, for example, fraud. We can also extend this concept to other aspects in the future, such as a greater risk of non-conformity. In connection with the determination of the inspection frequency, the Minister referred earlier to Planifood. That is the system that allows us to ensure that operators are regularly monitored. The basis of that system is the recording of inspection frequencies. Based on the activity of an operator, we record the frequency of the control. We call on experts for this work. In an ideal world, we could make a complete distinction between determining the inspection frequency and our resources. However, an inspection programme should also be possible at the end of the journey. In order to carry out that inspection programme, we need people and resources. So, in an iterative process, we try to see how we can carry out a maximum number of checks, in the right places, in the companies with the highest risk and taking into account the resources we have. I come now to a subject which the Minister has already raised. We are sometimes delayed in a number of areas. In this way, we sometimes cannot respect the anticipated inspection frequencies. In the Management Committee we have developed a methodology that allows us, firstly, to follow the evolution with a reporting tool and, secondly, to catch up. The result is, of course, always linked to the resources we have at our disposal. We had hoped to be able to call on the staff we had recruited for the Brexit by 2020, which was postponed by one year, and to use them in our late business controls, but unfortunately the COOVID-19 crisis has thrown soo. We now use new, more limited checklists. The Minister said that we are trying to keep the time we spend with an operator as short as possible, not only to protect our controllers, but also, of course, to guarantee social disruption and thus protect operators. In any case, we will continue to work towards catching up. In the future, we will also consider whether we need to adjust inspection frequencies based on what we have learned from the controls we have carried out this year. The Minister also discussed in detail the independence of the veterinarians or officers. I would like to add that this applies not only to the contractors, but also to our own people. In the case of the veterinarians with orders or the order parents, we include an annual declaration in the agreement they sign with the agency, but also its staff are reminded annually that they must also indicate incompatibility. That's not a non-binding system. It is decreed by royal decree. In doing so, we can ensure that anyone carrying out tasks for the Agency can demonstrate that they can do so independently. Another aspect that can be taken into account is the improvement of resources. There has been talk of rotation, but rotation is limited by the practical possibilities we have. We are not supposed to send inspectors and inspectors from one side of the country to the other. The sum of all the measures we take ensures that both the auditors and the contractors operate independently. It is not just a question of signing declarations and having an obligation to declare incompatibility. We also verify this in the field of the assessment of MET. Now I come to the fourth of the four slides on controls. One of the recommendations was that we should separate the certification of exports from our basic mission. First of all, we wanted to point out that certification, although it is export-related, is also a guarantee to consumers in third countries that products meet European Community standards and also third-country standards. For this certification, we first call on the holders of the contract, mainly veterinary surgeons with orders; that is important. So we can carry out our basic tasks with our own people. If there is no other way, we have made additional recruitments within the agency, for example for both the Brexit and the plant health law, in order to avoid interference with our basic mission. Our basic task is to control the food chain, both within the control programme and in other activities. I think it is important that you, as a Member of Parliament, know that we are carrying out a lot of other controls alongside the monitoring programme. For example, there are a lot of checks in the context of the follow-up of rapid alerts. When consumers complain, we always check what is going on. I also mention the follow-up to the non-conformitys. As part of the follow-up of calls, we also check, systematically but on a sample basis, that calls are carried out effectively. However, we have to note that the package of additional controls is increasing in relation to the controls we carry out in the framework of our monitoring programme. One of the things that has also been mentioned is that we now include specific controls in our monitoring programme to detect fraud. This is done in two ways: by integrating additional questions into our checklists for the inspectors and inspectors on the ground and by developing specific checklists which, as a successor to the reinforced controls, should allow the monitoring of fraud to continue, especially in the meat sector. The FIA has also made a number of recommendations on import controls. In order to optimize this, we can not only cooperate with customs and try to improve our IT systems in the field of import, so that we can do import controls better and more efficiently. I know that this is a concern of many committee members, but I can assure you that all necessary controls are also carried out on imports, precisely in order to prevent products that do not comply with European standards from entering the European market. As far as the organisation is concerned, the Minister has already indicated that we are moving towards a culture of participation in the agency. The strategic cell is active and is in the process, for example, of supporting the Management Committee in the development of a new business plan for 2021-2023. There is one aspect of the FIA that we must move to another level of policy. The FIA rightly says that we should move towards a rotation of Directors-General or, in general, towards a rotation of mandate holders within the federal agency, but the way in which mandate holders are designated does not really allow for smooth circulation. We have therefore submitted this point to the Minister responsible for the Public Prosecutor. The business plan and the protocols were approved by the Minister. One aspect that may not have been mentioned in the Minister's presentation is the FIA's question to examine the status of parastatal. The Agency believes that this will certainly remain topical, especially if one assumes that there should be a check by a competent minister, who will then be accountable to Parliament. An organization of sui generis could also, as far as we see it, take the principles of the parastatal. It may then be possible to move towards a more flexible way of working in terms of human resource policy and, possibly, even more importantly, management of our resources. We've already talked about independence. We have indeed done a great deal of work within the Agency to ensure that elements or important incidents or events get sufficiently quickly to the right place for treatment. We have included this in the protocol with the Minister. Now there is a system where information is efficiently brought both internally and to the Minister, if necessary. The next slide deals with the parastals. The penultimate slide includes the organisation and protocols with other governments. The Minister has given a detailed account of the arrangements with the prosecutor's office. This is important and we have a first, as it will enable the Agency to evaluate the high-risk dossiers that can be most addressed by the public prosecutor. We also discussed the management and involvement of our partners. We have a lot of partners. The list of all the organisations with which we consult is very extensive and will approach the 100. We ensure that we consult with the full panel of all possible stakeholders, from veterinarians, sectors and consumers to other stakeholder organisations. In doing so, we have taken a very important step in capturing what is happening in society. Following, for example, new insights about the short chain, we played briefly on the ball to indicate how the agency handles this. That is a specific group of operators with which we have organised a specific consultation. The last point of the organisation I would like to raise is the management of complaints. The Agency shall have its own ombudsman or woman, who shall manage the complaints that lie at the centre of the proceedings. That's about a hundred a year. Those are not the complaints that end up with the federal Ombudsman. There is also a system of complaints handled by the services. We have put the various complaints that end up with the central services in a single system, so that we have a global overview. In the long term, we will also integrate the complaints received by the various LCE's local control units.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... One of the endpoints is that anonymous complaints can always be transferred to the FIA. The next slide concerns 'comitology', where we have an audit committee because we also have our own quality systems in addition to the FIA. All our activities are covered by a quality system that is audited externally. Within this framework and within the framework of the tasks we have to do for the Commission or within the framework of European legislation, which clearly requires us to have an internal audit, we have internal auditors. The monitoring of the functioning of those internal auditors shall be ensured by an audit committee, composed of members of the Advisory Committee and of the Cabinet. A number of adjustments may be made in the future, for example with regard to the designation of the representatives of the Advisory Committee. As far as the committees are concerned, this is also an important work that we are working on. We'll see how we can better organise the professional committees within the agency. That, too, calls for a change in the legislation. We will therefore have to wait for a government with full authority to take the necessary steps. I'll go over the next slide soon. The Minister addressed all aspects of communication. The next slide shows a summary of the control policy. We're tracking both the inspector and the inspector. Another important aspect is that, in the context of the validation of car control systems, unlike in the past, when audits were always announced, we are now moving towards a system that integrates unannounced audits. However, we must distinguish between audits carried out by OCIs and inspections carried out by the Agency. The Agency's inspections are always unannounced. The inclusion of questions relating to fraud in the checklists has also been mentioned. The next slide is about managing the crises. Indeed, we have not only made new definitions. Above all, it is important that we ensure that the information from the site goes quickly to the central services and, if necessary, to the political level. We're in the middle of capturing signals. That's one of the hardest assignments. We work with third parties, like Sciensano. In this respect, there is still scope for further development of cooperation. The development of new technologies will enable us in future to respond more quickly and appropriately to, for example, contamination with pathogenic micro-organisms. We have set up a working group with the mandate holders; due to the COOVID-19 crisis there was a delay, but the working group has since resumed its work. In it we examine together with representatives of the contractors how we can improve cooperation in the long term. We will be able to deliver the results before the end of the year. I can be brief about the next two slides. The Minister said that we have developed a fraud policy by, on the one hand, strengthening the NOE with additional people and, on the other hand, improving the relationship between the NOE and internal staff. The NOE regularly performs road shows at the local control units to sensitise them to signals that may indicate fraud. We are working with Justice, with Economics, with the Medicines Agency and with the judicial police to develop a global approach to fraud. On the next slide, I'll talk about the computer system. It is important that, as a result of the FIA audit, we also went to an overall strategy of the Agency. The Minister has mentioned a number of tools such as the dashboards. They not only give better access to the control results for our internal people, but we also make them available to the veterinarians, so that they get a better insight into the history of the operators where they carry out assignments for us. It has already been pointed out that we attach great importance to education. I'll give you some additional information. When benchmarking at federal level on training followed by employees, the Agency systematically scores very high compared to the various federal authorities. Of course, we will continue to work on developing the competences of the Agency. Our different quality systems play an important role in this. The system consists of training people first, then declaring them competent and, on top of that, ensuring that they remain competent by giving them sufficient training. This is one of our important added values, precisely because our quality systems have been validated externally. My last slide deals with the mandatory reporting of the laboratories and their independence. It has been clearly stated that BELAC has an important mandate and competence with regard to the independence and quality of OCIs and laboratories. Of course, we are willing to use BELAC to see how this can remain guaranteed. By the way, the agency has the tools to request information. It is not intended that we systematically get all the information, but that when we need information, there can be no obstacle to us passing on the information. We found a workaround for the foreign labs. As the Minister has already pointed out, a solution at European level would be best. I hope, Mr President, members of the committee, that I have been able to explain briefly a number of practical aspects in addition to the Minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u5	That is indeed the case and the powerpoint presentation is at the disposal of the Members anyway. I also have to correct myself. You're the deputy director of the federal agency, not the director, as I said before. Mrs Schoubs of the Federal Internal Audit now has the floor. The recommendations of the Federal Internal Audit were, of course, already extensively cited by the two previous speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u6	Mr President, I will not go into the content of our audits again. Minister Ducarme and Herman Diricks quoted all its points. I will give you an overview of the status of the audits for us and what we have done in the meantime as regards their follow-up. The reports were delivered for us in October 2018. At the FIA we did a follow-up in November 2019 and recently in March 2020, in close consultation with the BFSA. This was a follow-up to all 107 actions formulated in the framework of the audits, compared to the 98 recommendations at the time. We have made a distinction between different types of statuses. Firstly, the actions that have been fully completed have been checked by us, through documents, interviews or data available, and are closed to us because they comply with the recommendation. That is the conclusion to be drawn. Secondly, the actions for which the BFSA has taken sufficient measures, but for which we still want to check whether their actual implementation in the organisation takes place effectively. For example, training is provided. Training has been made, but is this training also given effectively to all the people within the organization they need? We will check whether the implementation is being carried out properly. There are also a number of actions for which the BFSA has done the necessary business, but for which the decision of a third party is awaited another organisation or a new government to conclude those actions. There are also a number of actions that are still in progress and for which the BFSA still has to take the necessary measures. The following slide gives you a general overview of the two audits. On the one hand, the audit of the organisation and the governance section, which included sixty actions, and on the other hand the audit of controls in the meat sector, which covered 47 actions. In total we see that 42 actions have been effectively completed across the two audits, that 11 actions will be further evaluated by us after the actual implementation, that 19 actions have been closed by the BFSA, but a third is awaited and that 35 actions are still ongoing. The following slide shows the same figures, according to different thematic groups, on the one hand, and distributed over the year in which we agreed with the BFSA to implement the different measures, on the other. When we look at the themes of organisation, comitology, communication and crisis policy, which are mainly focused on the organisation, we see that it is a good thing in this area. 30 actions were planned for 2019 and 6 in 2020. 28 of them were finished in 2019. Three further actions are open for 2020, which can be continued towards the end of the year. When we look at the block on control policies, controls, self-checking, DMO and the reporting of the labs, we see that this is still the most important task in the course of 2020. This was also the block where 38 actions were planned to be addressed by December 2020. At present, 14 of these actions have been completed. Of the 2019 actions, 7 of the 9 actions planned for that block have been completed. When we look at the sanctions and fraud policies, we see that it is good: 10 actions were planned for 2019, 10 of which were finished and 2 actions were planned in 2020 and are also finished. With regard to the numbers of IT systems and training, which are more generally applicable and more in support, we see that 8 actions were planned in 2019 and 4 in 2020, of which 7 and 1 were carried out respectively. In this general overview, it is important to note that many of the planned actions have been effectively implemented, especially by end-of-year actions in 2019. The BFSA has done a lot of work in this area, but of course there is still work to be done before 2020. The work is mainly located in the block of controls. In my view, this is also due to the fact that, for the organisation, it represents a profound change in, inter alia, changes in control policies and changes in checklists, which should be further developed during the course of this year, so that those actions can be concluded by the end of 2020. For our part, we provide for a further follow-up in autumn 2020 and also in early 2021, so that we can see whether all actions can be concluded. On the next slide we have brought together some general conclusions. More progress has been made in the audit on governance, with 35 completed actions, than in the audit on controls, with 7 completed actions. The main progress was made on the organisation of the BFSA. Many things have happened in this area, which have just been discussed in detail, in particular comitology and fraud policy. The subject of controls needs to be further developed. At the end of 2019, it was decided to adopt a more risk-based approach to the controls, to work more with the systems of basic scopes and additional scopes, systematic and specific. It is normal that these things have to be further worked out, but it is important that that decision has been taken within the BFSA, which means that a different way of working will be applied in relation to the past. As far as cooperation with third parties is concerned, the measures concerning MET are still ongoing, mainly due to the fact that some evaluations only take place at the end of the year. So we have not yet been able to check whether these evaluations have been carried out effectively, so that these actions remain open to us. The processes and procedures for crisis policy have certainly been refined and many steps have been taken in the field of external communication. The fact that additional people are needed within the communication cell has also been addressed. At the end of the year, we certainly want to look further at the development of the communication strategy. For us, these are the conclusions in the current state of the audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u7	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and the other speakers for their clarification. There have been two extensive audits that have brought a great deal of work and we have seen that there has already been a good deal of progress. Mr Diricks, how do you think that more progress has been made in the area of governance audit than in the area of controls? What timing do you consider feasible to complete that part? I made a lot of notes during the explanatory statement. At least I have a lot of questions. I will try to put the questions chronologically, in the order in which the subjects were dealt with. I'll start with the theme of fraud. I understand a platform was established, the Pharma and Foodcrime Platform. Is that already active, or does it still need to be activated? Has it taken various actions in the meantime or not? I understand that training in the fight against fraud is provided for the staff. I think that's important. Is a debriefing also provided after each fraud case, so that it can be learned from it and built on it in the context of the further training and specialization of those people? I also hear that socio-economic data will be taken into account in the field of fraud detection. What exactly is that supposed to mean? When it comes to anticipating a crisis, I read that a topic was that the minister's role had not been fully clarified in crisis communication. I think that with the COVID-19 crisis we have all understood that crisis communication is extremely important. I therefore wonder whether you have a roadmap in the event of a major crisis, with a clear division of roles, which will enable you to start quickly as soon as the first signals of a crisis are captured. I hear from Mr Diricks that capturing the signals is a difficulty. To what extent can digital data processing help to capture things that may come up less quickly when reading ordinary, individual reports? As far as the organisation is concerned, I have read that there were concerns about the size of the Management Committee and the Advisory Committee. The number of members would possibly make decision-making more difficult. Mr Diricks, what is your opinion on this? Do you agree? Do you think that measures should be taken in this area? I understand that certain legal adjustments will have to be made if changes are to be made there. With regard to the status as a parastatal, you say that a sui-generis statute could also provide benefits in terms of human resources and that this would allow us to work more flexibly. Does this mean that recruitment is more difficult under the current statute? Where are the problems? With regard to communication, I understand that there is a new website and that it works better. However, this could be made even more attractive to the general public. The role of the Agency as a public health partner should perhaps be highlighted more. The website could also be made visually more attractive, so that people can build a certain relationship of trust. I haven't heard or read anything about communications to foreign agencies. Is there anything to be said about that? Are improvements possible or desirable? With regard to internal communication, how will silo formation be remedied? Have certain steps been taken there? As far as control policy is concerned, I understand from the statement that there will be a very strong commitment to further digitisation. Does this mean that the controls are now also digital? Are they still listed on a paper, to put it that way, or do people get a tablet or a laptop on the premises? It can have advantages if these data are immediately stored in a database, so that they can be quickly collected and analysed. This can also be a driving force in future controls. Is it also intended, if it has not yet come to pass, to implement it? As far as the auto-control system is concerned, I have not yet received an answer to my question. My question was whether there is also a central registration of the results of the car checks. I do not think so, but could that not be desirable, so that they can be processed as some kind of big data and forward inspection policy? As far as the laboratories are concerned, I have heard that the compulsory notification is apparently not so obvious because a mass of data would then be collected, from which no immediate benefit can be obtained. Can't a digital filter or analysis help to get useful things out of it, to analyze that data like big data and build on it? The final point was our meat processing sector. We are told that meat processing companies, including in Germany, have been affected by the COOVID-19 crisis in Germany. Could you just point out that we are being followed up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u8	Minister, in recent years we have experienced several food scandals (fipronil, Veviba...) following which you had ordered two AFCSA audits. When you came to present these audits to the House of Representatives – it was in December 2018 – you announced the establishment of a steering committee and a quarterly reporting at both the government and parliament levels. Can you take stock of what has been done?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u9	Mr President, I had to leave to present texts in the Committee on the Economy. Before I left, I had a series of answers to my questions. I will therefore not prolong the debate, out of respect for my colleagues who attended the whole presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u10	Mr President, I would like to emphasise that I think that, compared to a few years ago, there has been enormous progress, thanks to both audits. Communication's improved a lot. We already knew that, and we are very happy about that. I agree with what Mrs Gijbels said about the site which has become clearer, but, as I see it, it does not address the general public, which should be able to do so. The site should also become more attractive and even clearer for the general public. The data are kept in a more efficient way and are always readily available. That is certainly a step in the right direction. It used to be a little too archaic. I am also pleased that the checklists used in the audits and controls are no longer so rigid, but more flexible and adapted to the situation. We have seen some examples of bureaucracy in the past, which hopefully now belongs to the past. Mrs Schoubs spoke about the 35 recommendations for which the actions have not yet been completed. She was talking about the end of 2020, and that was the intention, but is that realistic? When should all recommendations be fully implemented? Mrs. Schoubs, are you satisfied? I can imagine that by the end of 2020 is not entirely realistic. Minister, you mentioned cooperation with the Justice and Police Department. I understood that the intention was to include food safety in the National Safety Plan. I don't think this is gonna work unless I've missed it. Are there any plans to do that next time? Could input be provided for the next National Security Plan? Have any specific agreements been made on this? Will food safety be included in the next National Safety Plan? The Council of Ministers also decided to set up a steering committee to shape the reforms. That has, of course, happened, otherwise you wouldn't have gone that far. There was also talk at the time of setting up a permanent crisis centre. Is that established? What's the status of that? Or did they abandon it? If so, for what reason? We'd like to know what's going on. If that is not implemented, why not? You talked about aligning the control policy of the BFSA with the size of the operators. Mr Diricks also mentioned this. That's obvious. A number of times, of course, there was talk about the National Investigation Unit (NOE). We had understood that its operation still had to be improved and that additional resources had to be made available. I have been called out twice and do not know whether it has been made clear that the recommendations on additional resources have all been followed. I'd like to be clear about that. One of the great pain points that came up was the understaff of the BFSA. I'd like to get an update on that. What is the minimum number of employees to be able to work properly? How many employees are you on in the meantime? I think I can tell from what Mr Diricks said that we are not quite where we need to go. I would therefore like to see a very clear state of affairs on this matter. Mr President, I have to leave a little after 4:30 and I do not know whether I can stay all the way to the end of the sitting, but I would like to stress that food safety is extremely important for public health. As far as we are concerned, there should certainly not be any cuts in the BFSA, either in terms of resources or in terms of people. I would like to stress that once again. I understand that the workforce has not yet been fully filled in and I wonder whether steps will be taken in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for leaving this sitting. Mrs Farih will take over the presidency for me. Since our committee has the title of the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities, it is a good thing that there is also a woman in the chair. I give the floor to Mrs Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your detailed explanation. We have had to wait a long time for it, but we are grateful that it is so comprehensive today. We also thank you for the efforts that have been made in the meantime, because it is a great deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u13	I apologise for not submitting my questions in advance. I assumed that there was a hearing today, as we had asked for hearings. In the case of hearings, Members shall not submit their questions in advance. It's my fault. Of the hundred questions I had prepared, many have answered during your presentations. I have two comments to make before I ask my questions. I have heard the Minister say several times that he is waiting for a government with full powers for certain matters, but the government has been in current affairs for more than 500 days now, while food safety never goes into current affairs. I have noted in other committees that Parliament has full powers and that we can tackle serious issues there through legislative proposals. Why have we not worked on these much-needed anti-fraud laws in the past year? In the Committee on Climate Change, for example, this has happened with regard to the CRM. I think it is a little too easy to hide behind the current issues, because Parliament has full powers. We are being paid here for almost 12 months, and I would have liked to have been there. That is a first point. Secondly, we got the figures until the end of 2019. That is good, because we had asked for an update on progress by the end of 2019 or early 2020. In the meantime, however, it is already 23 June and 2020 is almost half over. If I see that quite a few actions still open and if I combine that with what we have been facing in recent months, then I wonder whether it is realistic to be able to complete this by 31 December. Would it have been realistic at all if we had organised this hearing or exchange of views in February? Maybe the FIA can take an objective look at that. Those were two comments. I also have a number of very specific questions. The business plan has now been approved, but the business plan from 2018 to 2020 that ends at the end of this year has not been approved until February. Why did it happen so late? Is it even workable to work for two years and a month without a business plan? I will continue with this concern to the next business plan from 2021 to 2023, to which you referred. Are you already working on this or are you possibly expecting the same late approval? I have a number of questions about the control systems. My group has never been a great supporter of car checks. You say companies that apply auto-control generally score better. I really want to believe that, and I also want to give the benefit of the doubt by obliging and extending auto-checking to a number of operators. However, I am still a little hungry about the evaluation of the auto-control system. We have always been a little afraid of those who deliberately want to slip through the meshes of the net. In the meantime, has work been done to close these loopholes so that we can no longer slip through the meshes of the net, not even in the case of voluntary self-checking? I also have a comment about the inspectors. However, I would like to make it as objective as possible. I think it is very good that the BFSA also has a coaching role and that companies for which there are some comments do not immediately receive sanctions, but that coaching should not be done by the same person. That was one of the comments. Those who coach and support should not carry out checks or impose possible sanctions. I didn't hear about that. What is the state of play with regard to the remark about the important role of coaching and the problem with the double hat? By the way, my toes curl when I think of the draft law on fraud, which has been stuck by the regime of current cases. Just look at the fuss in Germany around a very large meat processing company and slaughterhouse of a meat baron, which has already been called into question several times for fraud. I want to believe that this cannot be done here, because there are more controls here. Nevertheless, I would feel safer if the legal framework were also fully ready. Could what happens in Germany still be here? Will we consider such a legislative text quickly, even though we are still in current cases? I understand that many steps have already been taken in the area of crisis management. I also hear you explain that during the fipronil crisis and the Veviba crisis, the roadmaps and protocols were not yet operational. How advanced were you when the listeria infections in our country came to light in 2019? Were they in operation by then? Have they been evaluated yet? Have any lessons been learned from this possible evaluation? Mrs Gijbels just asked whether the problem was not in capturing the signals. In the case of listeria contamination, we were also faced with the additional problem that we had difficulty capturing the signals from abroad. Is there a work in progress? Have we learned from the listeria infections? Is that finished? About the communication I've just looked at the new website. You say that much more must be anticipated in the communication strategy and that there must be proactive communication. I may repeat myself, but what I want to read today as a Belgian consumer is that the BFSA is experiencing incidents such as those involving meat processing companies and slaughterhouses in Germany in Belgium. That's proactive communication. So that's just a tip and at the same time a comment about proactive communication. Mr President, are there indeed more stringent controls at the moment? We see what is happening in Germany and that it is mainly a matter of safety for the workers there. In view of the current situation, can you tell us very briefly how this is happening in Belgium? I have two very short points to make. As regards staff, it was said that a hotline would be set up for their own employees, so that they could report cases anonymously or otherwise. What about that? Is that hotline coming or not? As far as the vets on assignment are concerned, I may have missed it in the multitude of information, but a focus was on the fact that MET can establish cases, but should not start an evaluation procedure afterwards. They weren't allowed to make a report. For that, another inspector had to come to the scene. This was experienced as repetition, loss of time and not very efficient. Has anything changed about that? Can MET be allowed to do so now, or are you of a different opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u14	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister and the staff for the thorough presentation. We do not have any further questions, unless I repeat some of my colleagues' questions, which I do not think is useful. I'm following the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u15	Madam President, Minister, we are all aware that the AFSCA plays a key role in the safety of the food chain by accompanying all actors, from the smallest to the largest. She's not just doing that, by the way. I am thinking in particular of the control of animal feed used for the protection of animals and to prevent the spread of harmful organisms in our country. It is simply a service that protects. It is known, however, that it is sometimes difficult to achieve all these objectives and to meet all these requirements without complicating the manufacturing and processing work of our producers. But avoiding scandals and fraud protects our health and promotes the image of our national food production. We know that too. Specifically, Minister, as a result of this Veviba abattoir case, we learn that 93% of the audit recommendations have already been integrated, while implementation of the recommendations planned for 2020 is also well under way. Of course, these are positive news. However, I have a specific question, which in fact concerns these cases of fraud, the action processes and the decision-making procedures in the context of investigations and the monitoring of controls. Could you tell us how the cooperation between AFSCA and other public services dealing with suspected fraud is going? In concrete terms, what is the exact structure of the existing collaboration between Justice and the services of AFSCA? We know that there are directorates and agencies to combat fraud at the level of health and food security. How's this control work going? How does the work of communicating information between services proceed? How, in the end, is one moving from a control to an investigation conducted by the justice system?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u16	I had prepared a lot of questions that were already answered spontaneously. That is, of course, very positive and I would like to thank the speakers for the comprehensive explanation. However, I would like to remind you that the audits were carried out after the BFSA and the Minister were faced with two unfortunate incidents in the short term, namely Veviba and fipronil. Both incidents were the result of fraud and were not so much due to errors of the BFSA, but were still a certain stain on the blazing, while the control of compliance with our sanitary standards is otherwise very strict. On the other hand, it was also shown that the deception of third parties was discovered in our country because the BFSA works so well. Of course, there is always room for improvement; hence the two audits, which, with a welcome evaluation, had to bring the BFSA back to its time after 20 years of operation. The good news is that the two audits were taken very seriously and that the BFSA was immediately launched to ensure their follow-up and to implement the recommendations. I have also noted that there is no recommendation for which no action has yet been taken. I'll try not to repeat any questions. Excuse me if I do. Minister, you had only just taken the oath or the first incident immediately revealed a point of pain, namely the demarcation between the powers of the Minister and those of the BFSA. In the meantime, the relationship between the Minister and the BFSA has been clarified and the mandate of Mr Diricks has been extended, but the audit notes the lack of a clear definition of the responsibilities of the Minister and the BFSA. What follow-up will be given to this? Every incident includes the criticism that the BFSA was wrongly assigned to the Minister of Agriculture. Some say it would be better with the health minister. It sometimes becomes in one breath the process of the agricultural model, while this usually has nothing to do with the cause of the incident. The audit does not question the assignment to Agriculture, but rather the status of parastatal A, with a view to the independence of the BFSA from all stakeholders and the general public. Therefore, an evaluation is based on whether the organisation as a parastatal A still meets the current conditions. Minister, how do you feel about this recommendation? I do not know whether you wish to take a position on the following. Is it indeed desirable for the BFSA to return the next legislative term to the Department of Public Health? In relation to the audit of controls, it is clear that this is more about more technical issues. The advantage of this is that they are more clearly detectable and that there are often also closing solutions possible. It would lead us far too far to say something about all the recommendations, but I would like to make the following point. There are a number of complaints about inspectors and veterinarians in charge of tasks, which do not rotate sufficiently and therefore sometimes become too familiar and even in-house blind to the companies that inspect them. That's why I'd like to suggest that we rotate more. What exactly is the current system like? Maybe that's explained, my apologies if they were. What are we going to do to improve this rotation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u17	I will give the floor to the speakers, starting with Mr Ducarme. I'd like to ask you to keep it as limited as possible. Several members can stay until 4.45 p.m. at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank you for your participation and your questions in this important debate. I will answer the various questions together with Mr Diricks. I would first like to make an introductory point. A number of comments emerged from these audits and recommendations. The job is to implement the recommendations of the FIA. Mrs Gijbels, the centralisation of the information for the checks is not a recommendation from the audit. If you want, you can table a bill. Today's job concerns only the audit and recommendations of the FIA. In the same vein, Mrs Creemers, there is indeed the question of the capture of signals which you have referred to and which Herman Diricks will return to. In particular, the Netherlands also echoed the question of listeria. There, we're not strictly in the national field. We are in the European field and I share what you indicate in relation to that. More rigour is needed, although the rules are quite clear. The RASFF system is clear. Countries have an obligation to provide such data at European level, but some do not do so quickly enough. That's the problem! I have already seen debates at European level calling for more sanctions for countries that do not speed up the provision of information. I agree with you, although this is a little out of the question of audits. Why didn't I introduce a bill? That's a good question. We've been in business for 500 days. I have some parliamentary experience. I know that when a bill is introduced, it never ends as it was introduced. It's a sensitive subject. We would have debates here in Parliament on a recommendation. In a very strict way, for example, I want to respond to a request from the ISP. Finally, after a debate in Parliament, I find myself with amendments like that. I think it's almost a surgeon's job to implement these audits. This work is to be done by a full-fledged government. That is why I hope that we will have a government as soon as possible, even if that is not the only point. Mrs Jiroflée, you asked me whether this is realistic. I believe that if we have a full-fledged government, it is quite realistic. I think we can meet the objectives. The difficulty today is that you are sometimes forced to use cross-roads to implement measures. We've still been 93% successful in 2019 and we're already 38%, but it's clear that if there's not a full-exercise government to take over, we'll be late. It's obvious! If we have a full-fledged government quickly, this summer or September, I think we'll meet the schedule. I gave you the number of meetings we had and the follow-up. We have never released the song since the audits with the AFSCA and with all colleagues. In the same way, Ms. Jiroflée, you echoed a debate we had about whether food security should be one of the priorities of the National Security Plan. I vote twice yes, but again it is a full-fledged government that must decide. I think it would be quite unthinkable if it were the opposite. I had already sent signals to my colleagues in the Interior and Justice at the time so that it would be integrated before we were no longer a full-fledged government. It is a priority and a necessity. On the issue of communication and crisis communication, there is no recommendation to create a kind of permanent crisis centre. On the other hand, there are a number of things in crisis management and crisis communication that have already been resolved in the protocol between the PSAB and the Minister. We understand very well what everyone's role is. We still need to meet several other recommendations in the context of the crisis manual, which is to be finalized by the end of the year. I'd like to thank Mr. De Caluwe for pointing out that the audit and the IAF did not recommend a distinction between agriculture and AFSCA. I am convinced that agriculture and food security go hand in hand, as is the case in most European countries. Moreover, countries in which this is not the case are in difficulty. Within the Council of Ministers at European level, we know how interconnected the issue of food security is today – we were echoing the listeria with the Netherlands. Within this Council, several ministers in charge of agriculture do not have food security in their responsibilities. The ministers concerned are faced with an extremely complicated situation when the Minister responsible for food safety sits on the European Council of Health Ministers rather than on agriculture, because he is not connected with the product on which he is supposed to draw attention. With regard to the parastatal issue, no proposals for amending the statute of the AFSCA were made in the context of the evaluation, which was carried out in 2019. Mrs Jiroflée and Mr Prévot, you have raised an important issue. I hope, Madam President, that the committee secretary has had the document on the budgetary developments of the AFSCA since 2016, because I wanted the Members of Parliament to take note of these tables. In this way, you will be able to judge in full transparency, beyond the additional measures relating to UNE and meat control, the uninterrupted increase in the entire budget of the FFSCA. I say, 'the whole budget', because I do not distinguish the government's allocation from the operators' contributions. Mrs Taquin, you also asked me an essential question. It is clear that the coordination exercise between the various actors is one of the pillars of the reform, as stressed by Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Gijbels. Herman Diricks will obviously tell you about the platform. But today, at the level of the prosecutor's office, each time you have a reference, a specialist. We have come to this after several meetings with the College of Prosecutors and Koen Geens to land on a evolution of the system which, beyond the greater collaboration with customs and the police, will finally, dare I say, guarantee that all the security actors also speak much more about food security. It's fundamental. This is one of the pillars of this reform. For the rest, I give the floor to Mr Diricks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u19	I will try to answer all the questions as succinctly as possible. The first question, from Mrs Gijbels among others, concerns the Pharma and Foodcrime Platform. That platform is already active, it comes together every month. The topics dealt with include illicit trafficking in growth products, illicit trafficking in medication, the illicit production of food, for example by people who bounce meat in their backyard, and trafficking in prohibited drugs, such as hormones and doping used in fitness centres. The main objective is coordination, and there is currently no operational cooperation. We do, however, want to do so, and we are aiming for a system in which people can also work together on an operational basis. To complete the picture, we not only have the Pharma and Foodcrime Platform, there is also an inter-departmental committee for combating fraud in economic sectors, in which the Agency participates. There is also the interdepartmental coordination cell for food safety control, the ICCV, and there is the multidisciplinary fraud cell for the safety of the food chain, a platform controlled by the BFSA. In the training of employees we take account of the lessons learned, the lessons learned. A debriefing takes place within the Agency after each incident and a document is drawn up containing lessons that we can learn. I can assure you that many different phenomena can occur, so that we can learn a lesson each time. I have perhaps been too brief on the socio-economic aspect. Our intention is next. We have our inspections, gathering information. However, in its recommendations, the FIA suggested that other sources of information could be used. We have looked at the sources of information used by police forces and inspired ourselves by police actions to study how we can draw a line in socio-economic data to assess which companies are most susceptible to fraud. The pilot project we have set up contains enough positive elements to expand in the future. There is a greater chance that a company that is late with its social contributions and has not submitted an annual report to the National Bank and may be known as a fraudster in other areas, is frauding in the field of food safety. The crisis manuals indeed existed. This is due to two important aspects. Firstly, faster transfer of information into the system is important, so that even at a very early stage, when an incident cannot be mentioned, it can be looked ahead and anticipated to more important problems. Internally, this is transmitted faster. Information to the Minister is also being made easier. We've been committed to digital data processing or digitalization for a long time. About in 2008 we already sent the inspectors and inspectors the job in a pilot project with laptops. So far, we've collected all the data digitally. The inspector will always encode his data. It sounds a bit paradoxical, but after the COOVID-19 crisis, we made sure that people could use paper checklists again. For example, the time spent with an operator is smaller and the computer should not be placed anywhere. That takes more time, but it has been done to protect both the operator and the agency. The size of the Management Committee and the Advisory Committee was not really the subject of discussion. The size of the advisory committee is particularly important. In principle, all stakeholders should be represented on the Advisory Committee. These are the governments we need to work with, the sectors and consumers. That's a big group taken together. There was a choice to reduce the number of members and exclude the less active members. The disadvantage of this is that an imbalance is created between consumers and operators. That is why we have chosen to retain the advisory committee in its entirety, but to work with working groups much more in the future. Specific themes can be identified in these working groups. We are well aware that the communication of the new website can still be improved, but we have to make choices there. Our resources are what they are. If we have more resources, we could also invest more in them. All digital aspects of the Agency need to be further developed. There could certainly be an effort, but this requires more resources. With regard to communication with foreign agencies, I think you are touching a difficult point. We have a lot of contacts with foreign agencies, but there is certainly still much room for improvement in the exchange of data. That is not something that Belgium alone can solve. This will have to be addressed at European level. The new Control Regulation provides for more tools to enable the exchange of data between Member States, not only fraud data but also other data. Belgium is a pioneer in the number of files addressed through these systems. I hope this will be followed by other Member States. There are two aspects with regard to car control systems. Each holding, except an agricultural holding, must have an auto-checking system. This is determined by European legislation. Each company must maintain a system that allows it to ensure the safety of its products. In addition, Belgium has the validation of the auto-control system by independent organisations, the OCI. Does that mean those people are outside our control area? Not at all. Only we are going to control them less because they are already controlled by an independent control organism. Does that mean those control organisms can do what they want? No. They are also stakeholders. We have regular consultations with the associations that organise the OCI to ensure that they also report correctly. We've already talked about clarifying the site. It is also important that we now, more than ever, work internally on cooperation, including with the other public organisations, both at federal and regional level. For example, within the Advisory Committee, we have set up a special consultation committee with the regions to organise a better exchange of information with the regions. Often an environmental problem is also associated with a possible food safety problem. We're trying to adapt our operation to that. As far as the National Security Plan is concerned, we have ourselves provided the necessary information to the coordinating services on what the Agency thinks it can include in such a National Security Plan. As has been repeated here several times, the National Security Plan will have to be approved by a government with full powers. If I'm right, the last security plan has been extended for a year. It will therefore be for the new Safety Plan to check whether food safety is included. The functioning of the NOE has improved in several ways. We've got more people to train. We are also looking at modern techniques to detect fraud. Where the NOE was previously focused on itself, it has now been ensured that there are antennas at the local control units. In this respect, we can certainly make further progress in cooperation with other departments, with the judicial police and with the prosecutor's office. I think that we have made a huge leap forward there after the implementation of all the recommendations of the FIA. The Minister himself has indicated that there is data on the budget...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u20	Madam President, I will have to leave you to prepare for tomorrow's National Security Council meeting. If some members wish to reply, I can pledge to answer questions related to their replies in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u21	We will make the presentation to which the Minister referred available to all members via extranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u22	They asked about the control of the COVID-19 rules in slaughterhouses. We have always carried out checks in the past, also strengthened. However, a distinction must be made between checks on compliance with the COOVID-19 rules and those on food safety. Our veterinarians working in slaughterhouses must also pay attention, for example, to the respect of social distancing. If they notice problems that they can solve themselves, for example by slowing down the band, which means fewer people are needed, we have given them the clear directive that they impose these solutions. If the measures they can take themselves do not have the desired effect, they must inform the competent services, who can draw up a CV, for example the police. We have had some difficulties at the beginning, but, by the way, companies do respect the guidelines. I cannot, of course, comment on what exactly happened in Germany, but it has already been said in the past that there is not only a problem in slaughterhouses, but also a problem with the housing and transport of the workers, who are all close to each other and an agency obviously has no answer. The business plan was finally approved. The fact that it was initially not approved does not mean that the principles of the business plan have not been implemented. Now we are working on the business plan 2021-2023. We hope that we will be able to present a fully developed business plan that takes into account the recommendations of the FIA. I understand that some people don't think it's obvious that there's so much confidence in auto-control. That is a question of looking at it correctly, in the sense that auto-control is a European obligation. We are, of course, looking at what additional actions companies can take to improve their auto-control system. For example, the obligation to use the ISO 17025 standard in a number of cases is precisely aimed at enabling us to have confidence in the analyses carried out under an auto-control system. I am pleased that you have made a comment about double hats and coaching, in the sense that within the agency we make a clear distinction between the inspectors and the inspectors on the ground, who, of course, have to explain during a check what is wrong, and the vulgarisation and guidance cell, which is a separate service within the agency, which is completely separate from the LCEs and which can provide training or guidance in a number of cases, which today is mainly aimed at small and very small entrepreneurs, for example in the context of direct sales on the farm. We are therefore well aware that we must make that distinction. The increased controls in the slaughterhouses under COVID-19 are important not only for the safety of workers but also for the people we provide. As mentioned above, they have been given clear instructions to take action or to contact the competent services if they find that the rules are not being respected. The MET claims are also a concern for a number of members. It is important that we have provided for the system to improve the assessment of MET. Personally, I think that with the current system... An individual error or mistake of a veterinarian or an order holder can always happen, but there are a lot of mechanisms, both at the level of the LCE and at the central level, which offer the necessary guarantees. As a result, we need to be able to rely on MET in the context of the activities they are doing for us. MET is not authorised to produce PVs. We also want this to be reserved for officials who have received training for this purpose, but we will ensure that the flow of information is done quickly enough. It is also possible to contact the LCE at any time, if there are serious infringements, so that action can be taken quickly and a MET report should not be awaited. With regard to Veviba, we have made progress in our approach to incident and crisis management. We've adapted our system. We work very closely with other services. It is very important to note that we now have a coordinated methodology with the Public Prosecutor's Office to track cases and give priority to those that pose a risk or danger to food security. It is up to the Minister to give his view on the demarcation between him and the BFSA. I believe that we have done what is necessary to make clear and clear agreements in that protocol. The Minister has already expressed his views on the parastale A. There was a question about the fact that rotation is necessary to prevent company blindness. I believe that rotating is just one of the elements that we can use to prevent company blindness. For example, when MET is applied, one in four inspections will not be carried out by MET, but by the inspectors of the agency, so that we are sure that different people control the same company. Rotation is therefore one means, and monitoring the functioning of MET is a second. Ensuring that inspections are carried out by both the Agency and by MET is a third. And, of course, there is a rotation between MET in companies, but there we try to organise it geographically in such a way that we can do so efficiently. I suspect I have answered many questions. I cannot guarantee that I have answered them all, but I am always open to further questions. I know I have exceeded my time, but I stopped giving at least a brief answer to all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u23	That's very nice. At other times, members can in principle view the digital version on the website. They will thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u24	Madam President, there was one more question that was addressed to the FIA, namely the feasibility of the current planning. Indeed, 35 actions are still open. A number of actions are in a final phase, for which the date of 31 December is certainly feasible. For others, that date will be a bit ambitious in order to be able to complete it in full. It is, of course, also up to the BFSA to look at what resources will be made available for this purpose. It is good to keep those data to maintain the necessary pressure within the organisation to realise those actions effectively. By the end of the year or early next year, we can then make an evaluation again to see what is still effectively open. Some actions will require continuous attention, as they will continue to live in the organization for a piece of evolution. It is still ambitious, but we certainly need to keep up the dates for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u25	I don't know if it's important, but could the mandatory reporting for the laboratories, if it's feasible, be a good measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u26	Let me clarify two things. There is a mandatory notification for operators when there is a problem in the food chain. That is a European obligation. We have done more in Belgium, and we have extended this obligation to the laboratories. Each laboratory has to report a number of cases. In the royal decision on autocontrol, we have built up an obligation on top of that, namely that contractual commitments must be made when a Belgian operator has analyses carried out by a foreign laboratory, that the confidentiality clauses that are usually concluded in that context do not apply to the BFSA. Departing from the basic principle that operators have a mandatory notification, the obligation for Belgian laboratories is added and the contractual obligation for operators to make agreements with foreign laboratories. Even if we get all the data, there will still be a problem with interpretation. An analytical result is not sufficient in itself to determine whether it is a non-conformity or not. I can give you an example. There is no point in getting a result on the presence of salmonella if that product is still cooked. There's no point in that at all. I understand that big data is always thought of. The question has also been raised, namely why we no longer call on the data collected in the context of auto-checking. The same problem lies at the root of it. The regulations are very complex. Analyzing an analysis result is relatively easy in many cases, but in a significant number of cases a complex case. Let me give you an example. In the case of dioxin, the standard is fixed or often linked to the percentage of fat present in the food. Four years ago, we tried to set up an internal system to digitize this. In the end, however, we have come to the conclusion that the cost of working out such a system was particularly high, also taking into account the fact that people could do so much faster on the basis of paperwork. That is one of the reasons why we abandoned that idea. A second and yet interesting aspect is the following. We have an organisation, the Heads of Food Safety Agencies, in which all agencies from all Member States come together to see what problems can be tackled jointly. We have our reporting obligation, but in many countries the analytical results are confidential information owned by the operators. In many countries, therefore, the step must be taken to overcome this obstacle. That would, of course, be a very rich source of information. However, there are other problems, such as the question of which methods of analysis have been used. One method of analysis does not necessarily produce the same result as the other methods of analysis. Our German colleagues have set up a working group, which is still working, to see how, in the long term, we are going to be able to use a long-term project of self-checking or other controls carried out by companies, such as entry checks, in order to find trends. That sounds very attractive. We have, of course, also gone along with the story. However, the complexity is particularly high.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u27	Madam President, Mr Diricks, I am sorry to miss your time, but we do not receive the BFSA's top man every day. It's also our dada. So I'm gonna take this opportunity. It is very interesting what you tell us about your German colleagues and their project with car checks. That's why I'm afraid to ask. Do you know how things could have gone so wrong with the meat industry in Germany? I hear you saying that you have given directives. I am absolutely in favour of this. I call that more stringent controls, because you are giving directives which must be followed. I certainly do not want to play quality versus quantity, but if you look at what the German colleagues are doing in relation to the meat sector, are we doing so much better here? Can we say that the controls here exclude our workers from being too close together on the work floor? We do not have to worry that the same thing will happen here as in the large meat sector. Just so we're clear, it's about mega companies with seven thousand employees, where everything goes under one roof. At the same time, and for that I would like to compliment you, you say that during the corona crisis in the meat sector, we need to step up our monitoring of the social distancing in the companies, in order to avoid what has happened in Germany. Furthermore, you say, and here I come to my point, that we will follow the short chain much more and coach closer, because there is much more interest in the short chain. If you're gonna jump on the cart to make that big, I can only be very grateful to you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u28	We probably don't know any more about Germany than you do, especially what we read in the newspaper, and that is always a dangerous source of information. COOVID-19 is one thing, food safety control is another. If we were to concentrate on food safety controls, it would be the European Commission that should ensure that all Member States control in the same way. I believe that the department within DG SANTE, which is responsible for this, pays sufficient attention to this. As you yourself have said, it is of course about mega-businesses. There is a large difference in scale between companies in Belgium and companies in Germany. This is an important aspect that must be taken into account. They are mega-enterprises; if there is an infectious infection there, I can imagine that it spreads very quickly. I am not speaking about the social conditions in which these people are housed, but it is clear that this also plays an important role. Then it is easier to manage in Belgium because the companies are smaller and there is a better overview of what is happening in the companies. It is not for me to speak for the organizations of slaughterhouses, but they have long been making efforts, such as drawing up a guide, which was adapted for COOVID-19. Perhaps also because people are much more sensitive to what is happening in the meat sector than in other countries, there is indeed a short period of play in Belgium. I want to tell you that without glorifying ourselves. We can control and we must watch as closely as possible. However, we will never be able to rule things out. Nevertheless, I believe that reasonable guarantees are given in Belgium. Once again, the zero risk does not exist, but we are trying to keep everything under control as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u29	Allow me as an ex-communication manager to give a tip without sending a consultancy invoice. Create an article about it on your website and communicate proactively about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u30	Good. Maybe I can add that we do communicate a lot, but we can only see that few of our messages are picked up because they are often referred to as too little sensational. In any case, your tips are always welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u31	I'm sure my tip will be picked up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-23-55-commissie-ic218x.u32	Does any of the Members still ask to speak? [[No.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive presentation. Our committee greatly appreciates that. It has been good to hear you speak after a long time, because I think many committee members have been looking forward to your explanations for a long time.
