ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u1	Good morning, everyone. We are here in the Committee on Health for an umpteenth current affairs debate on the coronavirus crisis. We have 79 questions again for Minister Vandenbroucke, who is physically present in the room. The Minister would like to leave around 5:00 p.m., and in any case no later than 5:30 p.m. I will stick to the usual speaking time, asking everyone not to go beyond it, and if possible, to be a little more concise. As you know, you can refer to your questions, specifying the number for the services. The Minister will then provide a comprehensive response, and then there will be the replies, and possibly a supplementary response. We'll see where we'll be in the timing at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u2	Since Mrs Depoorter is slightly late, I propose to start with Ecolo-Groen. The N-VA will speak a little later. As a reminder, ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time for three-member groups is no more than eight minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I have two questions. I'm coming to the first. I have been approached by several relatives of patients under the age of 45 with severe co-morbidities, such as genetic kidney disease, multiple sclerosis, or transplant patients who are questioning their priority status in the covid vaccine. These patients are considered to be a priority under the influenza vaccine, but in this case they would be in group 1B. Minister, is it possible to take into account their co-morbidity problem in co-vid vaccination? Minister, my second question concerns the increase in the intake of anxiolytics during the covid period and is No 55011694C; I refer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u4	Mr Minister, I have tabled two questions. My first question is about the enormous backlog in the field of deferred non-covid care, a concern that has long lived and now comes to us from the hospitals. Apparently, people are afraid to go to the hospital, which is not necessary at all. I've been in a hospital and a store myself a few times over the last few weeks, and I feel much safer in the hospital than in a store. In my question I refer to the concerns of a hospital director from Limburg. What are you doing to get the non-covid care up and running? My second question concerns last week's report that there are two reports in circulation at Sciensano, one of which would contain more information. I read that you are in favour of making all the reports that Sciensano publishes public. What steps will you take to make that happen? After all, public opinion has doubts not only about COOVID-19, but above all about vaccines. Because we are not allowed to go to the pub now, this doubt is spread through social media and anyone who does not get all the information or believes that information is being withheld quickly becomes suspicious. It is therefore absolutely necessary to communicate as much transparency as possible on everything related to COVID-19 and the vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u5	Mr President, Minister, my first question (No 55011425C) concerns the testing methods under consideration. I wanted to know, to date, what is known about the effectiveness of the tracking dog method, which has been mentioned recently in the press, and the effectiveness of respiratory tests. I also wanted to know whether methods other than those we know today are still under consideration. What about today's self-tests and their reliability, despite the debate we have had? My second question (No 55011719C) concerns the covid vaccine for pregnant women. Has the Task Force taken a position on the recommendation or contraindication of covid vaccine for pregnant women? Will they be integrated into one of the priority groups? Will the different countries of the European Union position themselves uniformly on this issue in the context of their vaccination problems for each of the future vaccines? Let me turn to my third question (No 55011720C) concerning the delay of Pfizer vaccines. Without going back to all this, do we know what this delay is due to? Could the delivery of vaccines from other firms also be delayed? Do you have any further information at this stage? Do you confirm that the vaccination campaign will start well on January 5 in spite of everything? How many doses will be available in January? Will this be enough to vaccinate all residents of nursing homes, as planned? How does the firm plan to catch up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u6	Mr President, we receive the sound via Zoom when we use the interpreter, whether in one language or the other. The problem must be solved if the sound of the room is to be put in live and original form. Colleagues, if you choose an interpretation, whatever the language, you will hear the sound of the room, translated or not translated. I come to my questions. A few days ago our good old Saint-Nicolas reminded us that next to the superheroes were also super contaminators, since he did a small carnage in Mol. This brings us back to the sad reality, confirmed by the studies: 20% of people infected with covid-19 would be responsible for 80% of the contamination. Minister, our neighbours, such as the Netherlands and Germany, have been reporting sources of contamination to citizens since July. Our government collects this data through source detection and cluster research by regional covid-19 teams. Finally, do we have indications in Belgium concerning superpropagators, namely those infected people who contaminate a large number of other people? Who are they? What particular follow-up is available to them? And then, are the information from the regional teams analysed? If so, what do they indicate in terms of sources of contamination? Earlier, I was talking to you about the great saint, but the hospitals and their staff are also waiting for Santa Claus for the holidays, since a bonus of 985 euros gross was promised to them by the federal government. In the province of Liège, I was arrested by several hospitals belonging to the same group, the Christian Hospital Centre (CHC), such as Mont Légia or the Notre-Dame Clinic. Staff indicate that management will not be able to pay this premium until February or March 2021. To justify this, she puts forward two reasons. The first is financial: according to the management, hospitals have not yet received the money from INAMI, and their cash flow does not allow them to make an advance. The second is regulatory, since the hospital group says that it does not have the legal basis necessary for the execution of this payment, specifying that a royal decree must first define the conditions for granting the premium. Minister, to be clear, the staff is waiting for answers from you and the government. Can you confirm to me that the amounts were allocated to the hospitals? When will they be paid to INAMI? Furthermore, as regards the regulatory aspect, have the conditions for granting the premium been defined and communicated to hospitals? In advance, I thank you on behalf of all the hospital staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u7	Mr. Prévot is not present. So there's no other speaker for the PS?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u8	Mr President, you are right: it is accepted in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u9	I refer to the written record of my questions. 55011314C, 55011331C, 5501333C, 55011365C, 55011423C and 55011435C. I would like to ask one more question, Minister. Where are the premiums promised to the healthcare sector? What has already been paid out and what is to be waited for? Within what time will these contributions be put in the hands of the care staff? I'd like to get a little more explanation about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u10	Mr President, I would like to refer to my questions. 55011288C, 55011289C, 55001184C and 55011718C. I also have three questions. Firstly, the number of infections has been evolving less and less recently in the right direction, in order to express it euphemistically. I hear from the media, virologists and other scientists have little or no explanation for that. In the light of the evolution of these figures, are you considering tightening up the measures? If yes, what entanglements are you considering? Are you considering taking new measures in the light of the evolution of the figures? If so, what are they? My next question relates to the testing strategy. In November, the testing strategy in our country was substantially adapted, because there was insufficient testing capacity, including for returning travellers and those travelling through our country. I questioned you about this on a previous occasion, but at the same time I asked you how much you estimated the risk that we would reimport the virus in this way and that our efforts would be cancelled, you simply explained the procedure again. My question as to whether we would not go after the facts again was also unanswered. Meanwhile, documents that Het Laatste Nieuws was able to access show that in November 2020 about 110,000 people came into our country from red zones, some 70% of them during the autumn holidays. According to the "secret" report, only 0.14% of those travellers were tested, which is exactly 154 persons. Of those tested, well 8% were positive. What is your view, Minister? Is there a link between the current trend in the figures, which cannot really be said to be favourable, and the changed test strategy whereby travellers returned from the red zones untested or were travelling here? What are your arguments for your answer? Finally, Minister, recently the media reported that Sciendano is making his reports in a confidential and public version, in summary. In response to those messages, you stated that there was certainly nothing secret about those confidential reports and that the differences between the public and the confidential version were merely in whether or not to give falsely interpretable figures. You told me by your nose that the order for that public and confidential version was given by the previous government. Minister, how do you reconcile this with your famous and blissful total transparency when you come into office? Why didn't you make the decision from the start to get rid of the formatting of two versions of the reports by Sciensano? What is the basis on which decisions are taken on the confidentiality or non-disclosure of certain data? Who makes the decision? Will the confidential versions still be made public? If you're not going to, why not? I am sure you will get those questions from other colleagues as well. Are there other data classified as confidential than those contained in the confidential reports by Mr Sciensano concerning the corona crisis that Parliament does not have at its disposal? Finally, I have the question of one million. With that in mind, have you withheld certain information from Parliament or deliberately answered certain questions from Members of this House or incompletely?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u11	Mr President, Minister, this Wednesday, the Netherlands and Germany are closing their schools, not to mention Quebec, which has just decided to close their schools until mid-January. As for France, its Prime Minister has advised against putting children in school this week. As I have already told you, for several weeks now, this issue seems to me essential for the protection of the health of children, families and teachers and, of course, for combating the general spread of the virus. Today, the figures are less good and I have the unpleasant feeling that, more and more often, during the press briefings of the inter-federal spokesman, the phrase "we don't know" is repeated day by day. The epidemiologist, Zoë Hyde, recently said: "Many of my colleagues still believe that children do not play an important role in this pandemic. Yet I think most of them now understand that children are just as susceptible to infections as adults." In addition, paediatricians in the country are seeing an increase in the number of children with paediatric multisystemic inflammatory syndrome, an increase that would be due to more children infected in this second wave. Meanwhile, the inter-federal spokesman said on 8 December: "At this stage, it is not known how contamination is occurring. It is not known whether they move from home to school or whether they do, but it is possible that the impact of small children on the spread of the virus has been underestimated. We're a little in doubt right now." A study in which the Sciensano Institute has just begun, finally, in primary and secondary school. We're talking about results in June. Since the return of Toussaint's extended leave, the number of infections among children under 9 years of age has reportedly increased by 46 per cent and among adolescents by 10 per cent. Even today, the spokesperson further stated that there was a significant increase in cases among children under 10 years of age. Therefore, I do not ask you to know everything, Mr Minister, but to explain everything and to tell us why the measures are not more precisely adapted in schools to the level of the inter-federal strategy whose task force is the RAG. Six months ago, it's almost "circulez, there's no impact of the school on the pandemic." Even for quick tests, it seems complicated. Specifically, Minister, how was the launch of this study, which began on December 7th, decided? When will the results be reported? What analysis did you ask of the inter-federal spokesman regarding the underestimation of the impact of small children on the spread of the virus that he recently stated? With regard to the priority groups to be vaccinated, could you tell me whether, in the fourth category, "persons performing essential social and/or economic functions", emergency police services and teachers are included in this category? With regard to the operationality and territorial meshing of vaccination, what are the difficulties currently experienced by hospitals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u12	Mr President, I will speak first, Mrs Muylle can then join with any additions. I would have liked to talk about the new expert group that has recently been put together. We understand that it consists of 24 members, of different scientific disciplines. In addition, six additional experts would be appointed to represent the wider society and to address and assist the regional health departments. This is meanwhile the fourth expert group that was founded. That's why I have a few questions. How exactly is such an expert group established? Who chooses its composition? What criteria are used to select the experts? Why exactly are those 24 people and those different disciplines chosen? Could you give us more information on that? In addition, I would have liked to have a better understanding of the profiles of the members of the expert group. Unfortunately, we have not heard so much about this. For example, are sociologists, psychologists and behavioral scientists also part of this group of experts? My next question has a slightly more positive tone. She's about the exit strategy. We know that today, unfortunately, is not the time to relax. We know the government is busy planning an exit strategy. There are targets, in particular that we should be below 800 infections and below 75 hospitalizations a day, in order to start the exit strategy. As far as I understand, our corona commissioner Facon would have already proposed a plan in the Consultation Committee. The main lines to get out of the second lockdown would already be fixed. I had a few questions about that. Can you give us a little more information on how this exit plan will look concrete? Will it be possible to relax immediately if we find ourselves below the figures set out? If not, what are the first relaxations that are envisaged? Can we give citizens some perspective in order to ensure that they remain motivated in these difficult times? I would like to have some more information on how we will deal with communication to the citizens. Can we get any more information on the exit plan knocked off by the Consultative Committee? I would also like to refer to questions. 55011707C, 55011708C, 55011709C and 55011755C. I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u13	Minister, when I read an interview with Mrs Quoilin of Sciensano this weekend, I almost fell off my chair. She said as long as there's no vaccine, we don't have any other weapons against the corona virus. Of course, there are other weapons, such as testing, tracing and source research, but that's where the shoe really wrings. We heard yesterday that the call centers do ask about the source data to the people, so that they can carry out source research, but that nothing actually happens with it. This data is not properly transmitted to the regions that are required to carry out this research. Mrs Moykens said that this is the eternal story of who is competent for what. To put it in Mrs Vlieghe's words: the killing factor really keeps on killing. We're not gonna test much either. Over the past few weeks, there have been an average of 32,800 tests a day. Of these results 12.5 % still appears to arrive after 24 hours. We also learned that of the tests that are carried out only 36 % can be linked to the indication for the test. For example, we cannot properly find out what percentage of high risk contacts are actually tested and what the different positivity ratios are in the different indications symptomatic, asymptomatic, travellers. We do not actually know how many tests are being carried out in the context of preventive actions or cluster outbreaks. That's really not good. The data needs to be refined to get more control over the virus. Sciensano published two reports: one for ministers, the other for the general public. Will you make it fully available? That hasn't happened for a while. Will you really try to get Sciensano to stop his protectionism and really go for open data? When are people going to stop treating people like children? How will you make sure that the source research really starts? What is the theoretical test capacity of the PCR test today? What percentage of this is being used? What is your plan of approach to increase the number of tests and ensure that they arrive within 24 hours? My next questions are about the premiums and wage increases that the healthcare sector is waiting for. A lot of heroes still seem to fall out of the boat. I am thinking, for example, of district health centres and self-employed nurses, who are still not eligible for the premium. I also heard that between September and November people must have worked to be entitled to that premium. I received testimonies from people who got sick in the first wave and now, because they're on sick leave, they don't get bounty during the second wave. That is a heavy double chastisement. Why do people who don't work full-time get half a bounty? In general, contributions and wage increases are not the same for everyone, for example for a nurse who works in a residential care centre in another region or who works for the federal government. Will you ensure that all heroes, whether they work in Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia, receive the same reward?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I refer to my questions. 55011476C, 55011477C and 55011689C. The first question concerns the purchase of syringes and needles. The federal government has launched a public tender for this. I understand that the Flemish Government has also decided to purchase material for the preparation and administration of the COVID-19 vaccines, because it believes there is a chance that the delivery of the federally purchased syringes and needles will only take place after the vaccine is already available in Belgium. In this way Flanders hopes to bridge the period between the delivery of the vaccines and the delivery of the federally ordered syringes and needles. My question is whether there is any certainty that the federally ordered needles and syringes will be delivered by early January so that vaccination can be started immediately? Do you know if the other Communities and Regions have ordered material like Flanders? My second question concerns the vaccination of people under 45 years of age who belong to the risk group. They must wait a long time to be vaccinated as they fall under the last category to be vaccinated. Actually, they coincide with the rest of the population. Can people under 45 years of age with underlying diseases not be previously eligible for vaccination, given their very high vulnerability? My third question is about the app Coronalert. If people who have installed and are tested, they should, in principle, inform the customer of the test that they are using that app and provide a reference number. That reference number is linked to the app. This will allow the test results to be sent directly to their phones. Even more important is that in this way the people who came in close contact with the potentially positive user are notified via the app, if they have installed it. However, it appears from practice that customers of tests do not always ask if the person concerned has installed the app, so that any positive result would not be linked to the user and thus not to the app. I even know of people who explicitly told me that they installed the app, but that the client of the test said he didn't need the code. If that were common practice, that app would, of course, miss the target. Is it not appropriate to sensitise not only general practitioners but everyone who tests in the triage centers to make the connection with the app effective? I would therefore ask you to raise the awareness of the users of tests in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Muylle has said on the chat that she has technical problems. She refers to her question No. 55011359C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u16	I will have that included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u17	Mr President, I would like to refer to my questions. 55011634C, 55011647C and 55011758C. I will keep my speech brief. Is the idea of a number of virologists, including Marc Van Ranst, being investigated to introduce a negative corona test for entering our country? What opinion do you have on that? A second question relates to the rising figures that we saw today. After all, everyone is worried about this. What's your vision on that? Are measures being taken? Why is that happening or not? Thirdly, we hear that the groups of patients at risk under the age of 45 are not really satisfied because they are not given priority if they suffer from a number of risk factors. The groups over 45 years of age would be given priority. I would have liked to have heard your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u18	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer more specifically to questions Nos 55011746C and 5011772C. In this speech, I would like to take stock of the epidemic. Indeed, today's figures, but also the evolution of successive figures over the last ten days, show very clearly that we are not on a set. Clearly, the indicators are on the rise, with extremely worrying signals. The upcoming school holidays and so forth are an opportunity to try to re-control the transmissions and evolution of our epidemic, but the evidence of weakness persists, while the only weapons available to us today are vital. This is first of all the problem of tracing. I asked you for weeks and weeks where we were in the numbers. Now I understand why you weren't answering me. There are only 2.2 contacts per positive person on average. It's panic. It's way too low. This in no way makes it possible to have an effective tracing or to identify clusters, not only people, but above all places, types of places, the way things happen. It also does not allow for the identification of super contaminants. As is well known, 10% of people are responsible for 80% of transmissions. For the umpteenth time, I say to you and to all the federated entities, the importance of increasing this number and having a tracing worthy of this name. It is true that this is largely a matter of regional competence. I will make the same comment on the effectiveness of isolation. We still don't have numbers despite my demands. But we lack a real accompaniment so that positive people can effectively isolate themselves. Small apartments, several generations under the same roof: for a number of them, practical questions and difficulties arise. We have to be able to solve them. Second weak link: respect for telework. In my opinion, this is something to be seen again, Minister, with all the employers. We still have shortcomings there, even though the indicators are worrying. I would like to mention a second aspect, that of vaccination. We now have the information: the European Medicines Agency (EMA) would probably agree to the vaccine, not on 29 December but on 21 December. This is a chance to save time. I therefore plead that, as soon as the Agency has given its authorisation, we can start vaccination, and above all that we should not wait until 5 January, as you announced. Do you therefore agree to anticipate this vaccination campaign and start immediately after the EMA decision? What is the status of the vaccination campaign in practice? In addition, a delivery delay is announced for future doses of Pfizer vaccine. CureVac is also late. Should we not change and buy out extra doses? With regard to the covid premium which is still not paid, I mentioned in my question categories of people who are not entitled to it and who seem to have been completely forgotten. The paramedics had been mentioned, but there are also midwives not to mention the people working in the laboratories under CP 330.04, who have been in the field in the nursing homes, the testing centres and who are still in reinforcement there. Thank you for correcting the scheme so that everyone can benefit fairly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u19	Mr President, I refer to my questions Nos. 55011508C, 11550713C, 11550714C, 11550721C, 11550722C, 11550723C and 11550774C. To get to the heart of the matter, Minister, and in particular on the Consultation Committee expected on Friday, you said at the beginning of the week on Radio 1 that, if necessary, steps would be taken here and there to ensure that people follow the basic rules, without further details. Can you tell us what measures you were referring to at that time? What measures are on the table for Friday's Consultation Committee? As far as vaccines are concerned, I have to add a few things that have been relevant since my questions were tabled, in particular the fact that, following the German Government's call to EMA to approve the Pfizer vaccine before 29 December, the President of the European Commission has just announced that the vaccine will be authorised next week and that vaccinations can begin immediately. She therefore appealed to the various Member States to start the vaccination operation together on the same day as soon as possible. Will Belgium be ready to respond to this call? Will all elements of the supply chain be ready and equipped to do so? I am thinking, in particular, of syringes and needles. Regarding the export of this vaccine, one million doses of Pfizer vaccine produced in Puurs, Belgium, have already been exported to the United Kingdom. At the same time, it was reported that the 600,000 doses of the vaccine reserved for Belgium for early January will eventually be halved. So, what do you say to the citizens, who do not understand why they would not be able to benefit more from the vaccines produced in their country? Can we not reserve part of the production for Belgium, as was the case with the flu vaccine? I would also like to ask you about the CureVac vaccine, for which Belgium has reserved 2.9 million doses. However, I read at times that this vaccine was in its third and final phase of a large-scale clinical trial, and at times that it would have been refused at European level. I think that requires clarification. Was it a joint order at European level? Do you confirm that the third phase of the trial has just begun and that it is therefore premature to announce a rejection of the vaccine by the European Commission? More generally, what happens if one of the reserved vaccines does not obtain the necessary authorisation from the European Medicines Agency? Can the order be cancelled and the offer completed? If so, how? Finally, I would like to refer to the situation in the United Kingdom. Indeed, in southern England there is a rebound in the epidemic that could be caused by a mutation of the virus. Is there a device to detect possible mutations in the virus? Are studies being conducted and exchanged at the international level and, in particular, at the level of the World Health Organization (WHO)? If it turns out that a mutation would render one or more of the vaccines ordered or already delivered ineffective, what would happen to these contracts and stocks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u20	I have questions. 55011398C, 550011400C, 55011556C, 55011557C, 55011558C and 55011624C submitted. My first question concerns the confidential reports by Sciensano to which other colleagues have already referred. Why aren't the numbers all being made public? That should be the case, insofar as the rules on privacy are complied with. I also had a question about the data collected. Which policy is linked to exactly what threshold? Will intervention occur when the positivity ratio exceeds a certain value? My next question concerns the mathematical models used and the question of technical briefings for the Chambers. That is an important point. In the Dutch House of Representatives this is indeed done. Every week or every two weeks, a comprehensive technical briefing is given there which, of course, makes the questions in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities a lot more pertinent. It is not always necessary to ask for data. I would also like to have some more explanation about the study that would be carried out on the impact of the non-medical contact professions on the spread of the virus. The following question concerns the national testing platform and its performance. Sciensano's graph shows that this national testing platform has been running or not for the last 14 days. However, there has been considerable investment in that platform. What expenses have been incurred for the equipment? How did the award of procurement contracts go? Is it true that the residential care centres have to work with the national testing platform? That would have been a debriefing letter. Some residential care centers have established a good connection with the clinical labs nearby. In that sense, some would in any case continue to work with those clinical labs. An additional question is about your conversation in De Morning on Radio 1. You mentioned the municipality of Sint-Truiden as one of the municipalities where the figures had deteriorated significantly. The jerseys aren't so happy that you mentioned them because it's actually a relatively limited number of infections. There is an increase, but from 4 to 6,7 infections on average. What numbers are you basing yourself on to sound the alarm? I would also like to repeat my question about the use of sewer water screening. I believe that this can be perfectly visualised on the map, which also makes it clear where too little testing might be carried out. Then there can also be effective intervention. When can we finally expect this on a regular basis? Mrs Vlieghe indicated in the special committee COOVID-19 that it was time for her to introduce the barometer. This could also give people a chance to get better. When will that happen? How come the recordings on intensive care in the Netherlands in the second wave are a lot lower than in Belgium? This does not seem to be due solely to a lower number of infections, not even due to a different recording policy, as the figures in the first wave were rather similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to reply grouped together. Let me begin with the general questions that have been raised by the very legitimate concerns about the development of the infections and, in conjunction with that, the inclusion in hospitals of people infected with COOVID-19. In our country, compared with other countries, we have experienced a spectacular deterioration, with infections rising rapidly. After a very high peak of infections, we were able to achieve a very strong reduction thanks to the efforts of the entire population. After that spectacular drop, unfortunately, we first landed on a plateau with regard to the number of infections, while we now see that the weather is rising. This is particularly evident at the moment in four of the five Flemish provinces, in the German-speaking Community and in the province of Namur. This is even less clear elsewhere, but the decline that is still taking place in Brussels and Wallonia is also slowing down. So we have not only come at a stage of stabilisation, we are actually seeing the figures rise again. The members of the committee follow this closely and will have noted it. I give completed, memorized, Belgian contagion rates, each week average compared to a week earlier. On December 8, there was a plateau, with 0 % difference. On 9 December it was completed 1 %, on 10 December there was an increase of 3 %, on 11 December 6 % and on 12 December 8 %. If you look at the Belgian figures, you will see that this increase is not just linear, it is an accelerating increase. In the meantime, we know that a pandemic requires a great deal of attention. We are at a better level than the Netherlands, France and many other countries, but when one sees that acceleration, even at a very low level, one has to pay attention. Mrs Gijbels, I have indeed mentioned Saint-Truiden, and I hope that I have not offended anyone because such an accusation is never meant to be an accusation. It was an illustration of the fact that, unfortunately, the spread is very broad. There are very few municipalities where there has been no significant number of infections. Acceleration, even at low levels, is also wide. I mentioned a few municipalities because, among other things, Sint-Truiden had noticed with our epidemiologists. There was no immediate explanation for this either. I admit that they are in themselves low figures, but I find it useful to point out in this case to the Flemings how wide that is spread. However, that is never an accusation, nobody is guilty of this virus, we are only responsible for doing something about it. If the people in Saint-Truiden felt that I had pointed the finger at them, that was of course not the intention. However, it must make us seriously reflect. Ms. Taquin asked a very relevant question, but it is also difficult or even difficult to deal with here. This is the issue of children that Ms. Taquin has been insisting on for months now. So far, our strategy has been to ensure that schools, education, and especially primary and early secondary schools, are safeguarded. This is an important educational and social effort. However, it is true that there are increasing indications that contamination in children may not be neglected, even if children do not become ill and even if it appears that such contamination is less important. That's not to be overlooked. It is true that we have these indications – Mrs Taquin mentioned them – and that there may be indications at international level that have just been introduced into the debate. It may therefore be necessary to look more closely at what is happening at the level of children. Mrs Taquin, I do not want to speak because I am not an epidemiologist or virologist. I'm not an expert. However, it is the experts who have to give their opinions. But that's something we note. This means that perhaps we need to be more careful than we were when it comes to the protection of children or around children. That is a point that indeed deserves our attention. I am not going to comment on measures at this level because I do not want to go ahead with decisions that need to be taken, but it is correct that there is a point of attention that is coming, given what is being observed and the international debate on this subject. I would like to generalize this point, from Mrs Taquin's very pertinent question. We really must be concerned about the evolution of these figures. Also on a low level, if one does not intervene, a small acceleration can be the beginning of a strong acceleration and thus of the third wave. We absolutely must avoid this. Our hospitals are still packed with patients and intensive care remains very high. Today we read in the figures that there is a slight decrease in the occupancy of intensive beds, but that is a very limited decrease, while many other patients are still waiting for care and interventions that have been postponed. So the situation in hospitals remains very difficult. Our doctors, paramedics, nursing staff, all the hospital staff are facing a very difficult end-of-year period, partly because delayed care needs to be more and more overtaken. This is also reflected in the figures. So it's really hard in the hospitals. That fact, combined with an acceleration of contagion rates, forces us to think about our policies. However, I am not going to anticipate any decisions that we are going to take on the Conciliation Committee. On the one hand, it is about enforcement and on the other hand it is about thinking about what is still missing. Enforcement is about a small minority of people who may even knowingly and willingly end up there. It is about those who think they should have fun at lockdown parties, but who show a completely irresponsible behaviour and ruin the solidarity that exists among the vast majority of people. It's also about other situations. It's about companies where they work, in the office or in workshops, while homework is still possible. The same applies to the public sector. My colleague, De Sutter, has sent a letter which makes it very clear that telework is compulsory for federal officials. For those who have a job where teleworking is not possible, the question must first be asked whether what they are doing is absolutely necessary for the continuity of services. If that is not the case, they must not come to work, then we want another solution to be sought. This is described in a letter from Mrs De Sutter. It would be useful for regional and community governments to take a critical look at what is happening with regard to homework in their civil service corps. It's a matter of continuing to carry out punctual, perseverance, enforcement. Efforts must be made there and we must not wait for the Consultative Committee. There are other measures, which I do not want to anticipate, and which need to be considered in the Conciliation Committee. Finally, I would also like to come to the comments that have been made on contact detection. Ms. Fonck made critical and understandable remarks about the reality of the tracing on the ground. Many statistics can be cited. For example, here in my preparation, it is said that in the week of December 7-13, an average of 2,977 people per day were contacted by the call center. This is the average of all call centers, 88% within 48 hours. This is a massive effort, but the question is this: is the effort at this level quantitatively and qualitatively sufficient and, more importantly, what happens then on the ground? Mrs Fonck, you probably know better than I do that this is a matter for the Communities, so it is a little tricky to say on this subject. Nevertheless, we are concerned about things. I believe that my counterparts in the Minister of Public Health are making significant efforts, but it is also a topic that is being discussed. This morning, for example, we had an exchange of views – short because we didn't have so much time – on the reality of contact tracing and what is happening on the ground regarding monitoring and also the support of people who are quarantined and isolated. There was a very open, very constructive exchange of views on this subject early this morning in the Inter-Ministerial Conference. This is a topic that will also be included in the topics to be discussed at the meeting of the Consultation Committee. Mrs Fonck, I think there is still a lot of work to be done. I believe that we should not point the finger at the Regions and the Communities from the federal level. We have responsibilities everywhere. For example, there were also problems with the transfer of data between Smals and Sciensano to the federal government. On all sides, I think you have to be self-critical and see what can be improved. This is also included in the topics to be discussed at the Consultation Committee. No problem at this level and I imagine that at the French-speaking level, at the Walloon level and at the level of the Brussels-Capital Region, it is also a subject that is being debated. Somewhat along the lines of the management strategy, on which Mrs Farih and Mrs Rohonyi returned, at the previous meeting of the Consultation Committee, we agreed on the thresholds in the management strategy, i.e. the figures. We're making a distinction between two phases. Things are going better in the descending phase, and ultimately that phase, without vaccine, should lead to a reasonably safe haven, where there can be significant relaxation. That safe harbour assumes less than 75 hospitalizations per day for seven days and also a declining trend. The safe harbour also assumes that the number of daily infections is 800 or less, measured for 14 days. That 14-day average should be able to last for three weeks and the trend should go down. That's how we define safe. It is clear that we are not at this point today. The current trend is not declining and the figures are much higher. I am inclined to say that, at least in a number of provinces, we are in an ascending phase rather than a descending one. We must face this very difficult reality together. Mrs Farih, we have not specified what should be done if necessary. When you look at the documents with decisions, you will find the figures. It says that we must act quickly and, if necessary, organise an intelligent lockdown in an ascending phase, but that is not specified. We are still in a kind of soft, human lockdown, where we do not completely isolate people and in which we allow schools and businesses to function. For people, a hug contact, even outside their household, is allowed. We've opened the shops again. The idea is that this must be maintained for a long time. We have not really specified what needs to be done in the event of a strong, rising acceleration, which is not exactly knocked off, but we have defined the numerical limits. This Friday we will have to make a decision in the light of the current situation and figures. The recipe for this is not yet on the table; we cannot just take that recipe out of a drawer. So it is not true that we have made decisions on this matter before. On Friday we will have to look at the current situation. In the current situation, after a spectacular decline following the great efforts of the population, we find ourselves on a plateau and that there are again rising movements from that plateau, with acceleration even in a number of provinces. Mrs Gijbels, you asked a very important question about the non-medical contact professions. We have promised the representatives of the non-medical contact professions that we would ask our experts specifically how we should look at the risks of taking up their activities. That advice was given, too. It's a detailed advice. It has not yet been made public, as it must first be sent to the members of the Consultation Committee. I am privileged in this because I am involved in monitoring the Commissioner and I see them passing through. Two things are clear. We cannot make any relaxations today. The people involved don't expect that either. In our neighbouring countries The Netherlands and Germany, where a strict lockdown is now being chosen, the contact professions, together with non-essential shops, are closed down. That's not a coincidence either. Both international studies and Belgian data show that more risks are inherent to contact professions, despite the best precautions taken by practitioners. There are a lot of figures on the table, but I would like to wait until the opinion has arrived and is processed by the members of the Consultation Committee. Then we will undoubtedly make that advice public. Mrs Farih then wanted to know who the experts are. The Management Strategy Expert Committee provides advice beyond the competence of the already existing Risk Assessment Group. That expert committee formulates an opinion for strategic policy, which is a little more than mere risk assessment, and also answers punctual questions, such as the question about the contact professions. That is not the competence of the RAG. The experts have been introduced to us by the Commissariat. A shortlist has been drawn up in accordance with the classic procedure. That list was discussed by the federal nuclear cabinet. These are people who already provide advice to existing scientific bodies, such as the High Health Council. A president has been appointed. She is an external expert and bilingual. There is also a representative of the World Health Organisation. There are six representatives of the public experts in the RAG, two federal and four regional representatives representing Wallonia, Flanders, Brussels and the German-speaking Community respectively; they are actually health inspectors. There are ten external experts in the fields of virology, epidemiology, infection control and biostatistics with a balance between language communities. There are six external experts in the fields of psychology, sociology and economics, also with a balance between language communities. My idea is that these opinions should also be made public, so no secrets. I'll come back later on to the so-called secret character of some of Sciensano's reports. Mrs Rohonyi, I think I have an important problem, namely the impact of cross-border mobility. There is therefore no question of air travel. We must therefore be concerned about the resurgence of the covid-19 epidemic in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. For this reason, contacts are continuing between our two countries in order to convince Luxembourg not to relax its measures in the face of border traffic too quickly. For example, in November, a diplomatic meeting between Belgium and the Grand Duchy was held to raise this point. I am sure you have heard about the Netherlands. You also heard Prime Minister Rutte. Prime Minister Rutte has asked the Dutch to stay in the Netherlands. I said that I love Dutch very much, what I mean. It's also because of personal experiences and family, but now I actually prefer that they stay there, as I also thought the Belgians who went shopping in the Netherlands, when our shops were closed, the Dutch and ourselves really did no friend service. They had also stayed better in Belgium. My very good colleague for the Interior, Mrs Annelies Verlinden, has also agreed with the governors that, if necessary, certain actions will also be taken at the borders, in order to ensure that people do not easily cross the border in large numbers to come shopping in Belgium. Moreover, I repeat that foreigners who come shopping in Belgium will of course be subject to the same crowd control as the Belgians. It's not gonna be fun shopping. So we are indeed very concerned about the development of the epidemic. I hope that we will be able to provide you with more information on decisions taken on Friday. I will not announce to you what I think may have to happen, because a minister in Parliament should not be concerned with intentions. A minister must be primarily concerned in Parliament with decisions and facts. I come to the many questions concerning the health care staff. Mr Rigot, to answer you, I will consult my e-mails and read you, in order not to make a mistake, precise information on the premium at the hospital level. The financial transfer to hospitals to finance the exceptional year-end premium, the incentive premium, will take place on 21 December. It's long before the end of the year. INAMI already has the table with the amounts to be paid to each hospital. Mr. Benoit Collin is waiting for my agreement to make the payment. It is scheduled for Monday, 21 December, because we must wait for an agreement from the Federal Council of Ministers this Friday on the transfer between the interdepartmental provision and INAMI of all co-vid budgets, including that of the premium. However, hospitals can make the payment on the basis of both signed orders, even if they are not yet published. There are therefore no obstacles to paying this premium. I don't really see any obstacles. I didn't quite understand the obstacle. If there is an obstacle, managers have to give me the elements, because I don't understand very well. I can always be wrong. It is true that this premium is calculated on the benefits paid by the hospital employer for a reference period, from September 1 to November 30, in order to thank the active staff in the second wave. I realize it can be difficult for someone who got sick before September. Obviously, there is a distinction on the basis of the working regime. Those who work full-time will have more than those who have half-time. This is really a bonus to thank, but also to value the work that has been done. It is therefore in proportion to the work that has been done. As regards the staff active in the first wave, a solidarity bonus, the famous consumer cheque, will be granted on the basis of what will be concluded at the level of the Joint Commission for the Private Sector, or in a consultation committee competent for the public sector. As far as the first wave is concerned, I will therefore keep the promise made by the previous government, or the previous legislator rather. I will fulfill this promise on the ground, but it will take time. In order to be defied, this cheque must be formalized, must be supported by social agreements at the level of the subsectors and institutions. I'm gonna get back to home care. On 18 November, the social partners within the Management Committee of the Social Maribel Fund of the Health Establishments and Services of the Joint Committee 330 Room 3, home care, concluded a protocol agreement for the award and financing of the incentive premium of EUR 985 gross to employees within the home care services. I approved that, too. This applies therefore to all employees employed as employees in the home care sector and covered by the Joint Committee 330.0130. Midwife at home, in so far as they work within a home nursing service, will also receive this premium according to the procedures laid down in the protocol agreement. In addition, a scheme is being developed for the granting of the exceptional incentive premium to self-employed home nurses. This exercise is in full swing, and we must also involve the relevant committee of the RIZIV, but that is what is happening. I know that there are a lot of people who have made efforts that are currently excluded, in particular a lot of people who are not directly under my jurisdiction either, firefighters, police, operators 112, military and many others. A great deal of effort has been made by a lot of people, but within my powers I wanted to thank this group in particular. I would like to repeat once again, especially as regards hospitals, that this is not going to be a pleasant year for the hospitals and the people who work there. This will be a very stressful and difficult year-end. We give these people a financial bonus, when we actually know they're not doing it for the money, but proclamation, out of conviction. With this financial gesture, we are giving these people, in particular, recognition. We know that home care is also hard work, both by employees and by nurses who work independently, so we also take them with us. It is indeed a focused effort. About the test policy. That might be a bit of a discussion point. The vision of the test policy, which has been fully developed and is still being further adjusted by our task force led by Professor Goossens, is based on the question of what to focus the tests on. What are the priorities? The idea is not that one should achieve a certain positivity ratio or not, or certain numbers. There is a WHO report of 30 March which states that countries must strive for a test policy with about 10% positive tests. We do not deviate greatly from that in practice. We're close, with a I wouldn't say falling, but right now, we're on a plateau of positivity ratio. In fact, we have developed a strategy with priority groups. The current test capacity of 104,000 tests per day is not fully exploited. The virus is circulating less strongly, but I'm still a little concerned about people who aren't getting tested, while they may be showing symptoms. We really need to make a call in all regions and all provinces so that people who feel that they are sick and might have COOVID-19 would be tested. After all, we're making some peculiar observations. For example, we find in certain locations that the positivity ratio is high and the test ratio is not that high. Then we think there's more to be tested there, because there's sick people out there who won't be tested. That is a matter of concern that I am taking with me to the meeting with the Consultative Committee. We are continuing to work on this strategy. I do not know whether I should repeat what has already been discussed with regard to the roll-out of the rapid antigen testing strategy. These can already be used in hospitals in symptomatic patients and in cluster studies in collections that in themselves are not at high risk as a collectivity, i.e. not in care facilities. We are currently launching pilot projects in symptomatic patients in both testing and triage centres and in general practitioners' practices. Flanders has an interesting pilot project for rapid testing to test high-risk contacts in schools at the start of the quarantine. The doctors are aware, have responded positively and are also involved. The law of 6 November was adopted in this Parliament. I know he was protested, but I'm still glad he's been approved and not withdrawn as some people have asked. Thanks to this law, we can use several professional groups to conduct the tests, including the Red Cross volunteers, under supervision. This has already been addressed in previous discussions. Some Members have asked whether this is something we should pay attention to when manipulating these rapid tests. Positive rapid tests are indeed potentially contaminated material and are therefore treated with medical and biological waste. Hospitals, laboratories and general practitioners have routine procedures for this. In small-scale general practitioners the material can be processed in a sharp medical waste needle cup, which ends up in waste processors and is incinerated. You're right, there's still some flaws. The turnaround time has been improved. The vast majority of PCR tests come within 24 hours. More than 95% within 36 hours. There's still a small percentage that's gonna take longer. That's a bit more common in the federal testing platform. So, Mrs Gijbels, I would like to stress that collections and therefore residential care centres can freely choose which lab they work with to carry out their analyses. That could be private or clinical labs, or the federal platform. Fortunately, there is also regular consultation between the federal platform, these labs and the Communities. This morning, Mrs Moykens, who is following this in an excellent way, gave a very detailed presentation at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on qualitative and quantitative results. Of course, we have to follow that. Someone also asked for an overview of the equipment. I can give you that, but then I'm going to have to read a lot of detailed technical jargon. I just want to give you that, or you can ask me a written question. I have all the data here, including the prices, and all the jargon that goes beyond my head. I think that information is in safe hands. Mrs Zanchetta, you had a question about alternative test methods. An opinion on the use of dogs in the detection of SARS-COVID has recently been drawn up. Several studies have shown that some detective dogs, if properly trained, can detect people infected with SARS-COVID-2 with high reliability through their sense of smell. Our expert group has advised positively on a question from the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Ghent University, starting with training detective dogs. If these dogs are trained and have shown that they can detect the virus correctly, they will be examined where and how best to use them. The available scientific literature on the use of breath tests is still limited. There are a number of publications that show that some breath tests can detect the virus, but their exact reliability is not yet known. As far as we know, no such tests have yet been placed on the market or approved for use. Self-testing is also expected. I refer to the caution of our experts, which means that we and other European countries are not yet releasing the self-tests on the market. That can happen as soon as we think this is safe. Mr Creyelman, Mrs Jiroflée, it is true that travel is a matter of concern and concern to Mrs Depoorter too. Also in the period from 21 October to 22 November we did not systematically test the asymptomatic travellers from the red zones. We then worked in a different way, with the obligation to fill out a passer locator form with a self-assessment to see if people have behaved risky. In the latter case, a quarantine must be imposed. In any case, this system should be better maintained. That is clear, and everyone agrees on that. The next question is what obligations can be imposed on people returning from red zones. We have taken a decision in principle on this subject, but it is still the subject of further discussion. We will have to continue this debate at the Consultative Committee on 18 December. I don't want to anticipate that. Mr Creyelman, Mr Rigot, Mrs Merckx, you asked about the super-distributors. Super-dissemination can occur if a person is contagious and at the same time exhibits behavior that allows transmission to a large number of contacts. So one must be both contagious and exhibit a certain kind of behavior. This is, of course, particularly true for those who do not yet know about their contamination. That is why it is important for everyone to follow the hygiene rules at all times, and that is why we keep repeating that it is important to have as little contact as possible and to strive for safe conditions when one is in contact with others. After all, when a super-dispersal occurs, a cluster is created. We can follow them up with the regional Outbreak Support Teams. Those regional teams are also committed to preventing a possible super-dissemination. For example, the contact centre asks each index patient where he has been during the infectious period: has he been in a collectivity or at an event? This allows preventive action to be taken within that collectivity or among the participants in that event, i.e. to detect and limit a cluster. The centralisation of all data is now being developed so that we get a better picture of it and we get a better look at the reality of super-distributors. Using only the results of high virus load lab analyses for the identification of superdistributors is not correct. Not everyone with a high virus charge is necessarily a superspreader, because it's behavioral. The viral charge also fluctuates during the infection itself. Mrs H annoyance, as anxiolytics, hypnotics and sedatives are not reimbursed by compulsory insurance, the evolution of these classes of medicines can only be followed on the basis of IQVIA data, the sales of specialties reimbursed and not reimbursed by wholesalers to pharmacists of public official. Volume data in number of packs and defined daily doses for the period January 2019-September 2020 are available. On the basis of these statistics and comparing them with the same period from March to September last year, it appears that there has been no progress in the sale of these three classes of medicines. The variation, depending on the type of medicine, is 4% less up to 1% more, as was found in France. There is therefore no particularly alarming observation on the basis of the data available. Let me turn to the questions about vaccines. Currently, an early purchase agreement has been submitted to the Member States of the European Union for all vaccines. For Belgium, the AstraZeneca contract represents about 7.5 million doses, which will allow 3.8 million Belgians to be vaccinated if the vaccine obtains a marketing authorisation. The Sanofi-GSK contract does not contain a purchase obligation. You were able to read in the press that some difficulties have been reported. For the Johnson & Johnson contract, Pfizer, BioNTech, approximately 5 million doses were requested. For the CureVac contract, 2.9 million doses have been requested but still need to be confirmed by the European Commission. You know that we made a prudent decision saying we were going to register for 2.9. For the Moderna contract, 2 million doses are requested but still need to be confirmed by the European Commission. I can't give the price because the information is confidential. The European Commission has negotiated and financed these contracts. They are therefore covered by European legislation, including on confidentiality. We do not have access to it as long as negotiations are under way with the other firms. Those who, like us, have boarded the European train have signed a declaration of confidentiality and are bound by it. That is where we have no choice. I assume that secrecy will be lifted at some point by the Commission, especially when all the negotiations are concluded. I would stress that no concessions have been made in contracts as regards pharmaceutical legislation or the liability rules contained in product liability legislation. Contracts contain clauses that share the financial consequences of possible liability. Liability for foreseeable damage, i.e. damage caused by mistakes under pharmaceutical legislation, remains entirely at the financial burden of companies. The exemption concerns only unforeseeable errors. In practice, the exemption concerns only serious and unpredictable side effects of the vaccine on the basis of which the undertaking concerned is sentenced to compensation under the product liability legislation. Furthermore, it should be noted that it is not easy to prove liability under this legislation because on the one hand, the causal link between vaccination and damage must be demonstrated by the applicant and, on the other hand, a defence consistent with the state of the art is possible. Ms Merckx, during the application procedure for marketing authorisation at EMA level, the dossier is subject to an in-depth scientific evaluation to analyse data on vaccine efficacy, safety, quality and whether there is a positive risk/benefit for the target group. If confirmed, the efficacy of the vaccine may be considered satisfactory. Once the marketing authorisation has been granted, non-confidential information will be made available to the public via the European public assessment report. Questions have been asked about the syringes and needles. I do not understand this, questions are constantly being asked about this. Due to the large quantities, the delivery of the 8 million syringes and needles ordered will take place in different phases. The confirmed date for a first delivery is today, December 16th. This is sufficient for the administration of 384 000 doses. That's enough right now. The next batch comes on January 15, sufficient for the administration of 600,000 doses. Then there will be additional deliveries in the following months for a total of 4 million pieces. There is also another procedure for purchase from another supplier for an additional batch of syringes and needles. Moreover, there is still a European call for tenders which will allow additional orders to be placed in the short term. Those 8 million units require a budget of about 600,000 euros. For storage and distribution, a contract has been drawn up between the State and a designated distributor until the end of March 2021. A public tender will now be published in order to award the contract to a company which will have to provide the storage and distribution of vaccines for a period of four years from April 2021. Pharmaceutical companies will supply the vaccines directly to the vaccination centres or to the central hub. That hub has qualified staff and ample storage capacity. The vaccines require three types of storage and transport conditions: 2 to 8°C, -20°C and -8°C. They are distributed among vaccination centres, e.g. hospitals that are adequately equipped and staffed with trained staff. This is supported by the FAGG. Orders from vaccination centres will be centralised. The deliveries will start from the central hub or from the producer, according to the instructions of the FAGG. In addition, the central hub will supply all necessary vaccination equipment to the vaccination centres, such as needles, syringes, sodium chloride and dry ice to store the vaccines at ultra low temperatures. If it is necessary to bring vaccines from a large vaccination centre to other smaller vaccination points, such as rest homes, the FAGG will monitor the transport so that it is carried out by specialised and recognised parties that guarantee the storage conditions during transport and perfect traceability. Once the vaccines have been delivered to the vaccination centres and smaller vaccination points, the federated entities will take over the implementation of the vaccination themselves. In phase 1A, the thawing of the vaccines is carried out by hospital pharmacists in the vaccination centres. They shall have the necessary equipment and qualified personnel. The preparation of the vaccines, including the dilution with HCl, will take place where the vaccination of the patients will take place, in the coming weeks in the rest homes. You know that there are three stages, with a distinction between phase 1A, with centralised vaccination administration to high priority target groups, and 1B, with an extension of target groups and increased availability of vaccines. It is only in phase 2 that we can talk about widespread vaccination, including low-risk groups. The start of each phase is determined by the availability, but also by the characteristics of the vaccine and its consequences in terms of distribution. You know that we want to start phase 1A on 5 January, provided that Pfizer-BioNtech's vaccine is delivered and has received approval. Pfizer had first announced that it could deliver 25 million doses in Europe before the end of December. After a while, however, they have announced that this is likely to be halved. For us this means that the expectation is halved from 600,000 to just over 300,000 before the beginning of January. In the meantime Pfizer has announced that there will be some sort of symbolic shipment before the end of the year. According to Pfizer's information, Pfizer is responsible for this, not us, this means that the Member States that signed up before the end of December would receive some 10,000 doses of symbolic shipment. That means that you can vaccinate 5,000 people. The first vaccinations can therefore be administered in a small number of residential care centres as part of the campaign. That is not a large group, and I mention this subject to this promise being fulfilled by Pfizer. This does not change the essence of our strategy. The essence of our strategy is that in January we will roll out vaccination among the most priority target groups, namely the people who stay in the residential care centres and in other collective care institutions. The same applies to the staff who work there and the volunteers. That's already a very large group. Then we continue with the care staff of the hospitals, the other staff of the hospitals and so on. Mrs Farih asked about the people who have essential economic and social functions. I think she was referring to the police and the people in education. I am not commenting on this now because it has to be looked at by the task force and it also requires political decision-making. The definition of these priorities is, after all, a sensitive ethical issue. Much also depends on the delivery quantities, the speed of delivery and the characteristics of the vaccines, something we will find out more and more about. So I will not anticipate that. Ms. Zanchetta and Ms. Fonck asked questions about adverse reactions. The results of the Phase 3 clinical trial of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine currently used in the UK vaccination campaign have just been published. They indicate that the vaccine frequently causes local or general reactions such as fatigue, headache or pain at the injection site. These side effects are, in the majority of cases, mild to moderate and resolve after a few days. More severe general reactions were observed in a small number of cases (2 to 4%) after the second injection. To date, the vaccine data on fertility are not yet known. However, the evaluation of the vaccine by the European Medicines Agency is still ongoing and will take into account all relevant scientific elements. Adverse reactions identified in clinical trials and post-marketing authorisations are included in the package leaflet and in the summary of product characteristics of the authorised vaccines. This information will be accessible via the website of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS). The European Medicines Agency will also make available other documents and data relating to the vaccine against coronavirus. Absolute transparency is therefore essential. Perhaps this, Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Hennuy, Mrs Sneppe and Mrs Taquin, the basic opinion on the priority target groups was given by the High Health Council in July, after which it was updated. There was also documentation from the Advisory Committee on Bioethics. The task force has continued to work on this. The High Health Council will issue a new, refined opinion by 15 January 2021, addressing, inter alia, the issue of age limitation for persons with underlying diseases. On the basis of that opinion, the working group dealing with the selection of patients at risk will develop and implement the selection procedure and the invitation for those patients at risk, with a view to their vaccination from April 2021. In this way, the patients concerned will be able to be vaccinated in time in phase 1B. Mr Creyelman and Mrs Rohonyi had questions about communication. The communication plan was approved yesterday at the level of the Societal Debate and Communication Unit within the Task Force. It was discussed in the Interdepartmental Health Commission today. There is also a strategic reflection on the phenomenon of anti-vaccines. Yes, there will be incentives, motivational elements also vis-à-vis those who hesitate. But I do not want to prejudge the social debate to be held on this subject. It seems to me that we need to encourage people and listen to their concerns, and not to say, in a top down way, our truth to us. It is necessary to be transparent, on the basis of scientific data, to enter into dialogue with everyone and try to convince people on the basis of correct and transparent information, and not on the basis of imposed or forced things. General practitioners and their representative bodies are actively informed and already mobilised at the level of nursing homes by their role as treating doctors or coordinating doctors. They also form one of the first priority groups after the rest homes. In vaccination phases 1A and 1B, vaccine packaging, cold line requirements and the need for mass vaccination made the active participation of pharmacists quite limited. Nevertheless, in both the North and the South, pharmacists or their organisations are involved in the information and awareness-raising activities that have been undertaken. A specific webinar is being organised for next week. Pharmacists are important partners in the societal debate and, when the conditioning and evolution of the campaign allow, they will be actors in this campaign itself. I shall come back to the questions put by Mrs Creemers, Mrs Gijbels and many other colleagues on the so-called confidential, secret part of the Sciensano bulletins. A newspaper has paid a lot of attention to it. I think things should be understood as they should be understood. This is an old decision, already taken in March, where it was seen that governments were asking for very detailed and recent information, with many projections tables. That is what is found in the so-called confidential report and not in the public report, which is published every day by Sciensano. Actually, those reports aren't very different. That so-called confidential report simply contains more figures and more details and it contains the results of pre-vision exercises. What's confidential about that? Not much, if you ask me. It served to meet the information needs of the public authorities. As a result of that article in the newspaper, because, frankly, I have not dealt with it, I have consulted my colleagues and those responsible. We have decided that Sciensano will give a simple, integrated presentation of that bulletin, but with a good explanation of what is in it. That requires some effort. That would be ready at the beginning of January. I think that we can then switch to information based on a single integrated bulletin, which is immediately also public. Mrs. Sneppe, you had a question about private saunas. In a clean pool with correct chlorine treatment, the virus will be neutralized, but the risk lies rather in the use of changing rooms and showers, for which a strict protocol for limiting the number of visitors and hygiene must be followed. A sauna is a small, enclosed space, where social distancing is very difficult and where ventilation is difficult or even impossible between several consecutive visits. In addition, the use of hot tubs and steam baths with damp air and vapour, in which aerosols survive better and spread. My administration has not yet received petitions or subpoenas from this sector of the private saunas and wellness centres, but this is also a responsibility of Mrs Verlinden, the Minister for the Interior and Institutional Reforms. Mr President, I have already spoken for a long time, but I think that I have answered quite completely most of the questions that have been put to me here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u22	Mr. Secretary, you spoke for an hour. The agreement we normally have is, depending on the group six, four or two minutes reply time. I must certainly give Mrs Depoorter some extra speaking time so that she can ask her questions, although they may have already been answered. This is important for the report. We will give the N-VA Group eight minutes' speaking time, which it should allocate itself. I also ask everyone to keep the reply as concise as possible. After all, for those who do not know, I would like to say that Minister Vandenbroucke hopes to be able to leave at 5 p.m. or not much later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u23	Thank you, Minister. After all, a number of answers have been given. You are right about the case of Sint-Truiden. It's a good thing it's been noticed, even though the numbers are low. My thoughts are, however, that the problem was noticed everywhere, and above all, it was followed up everywhere. Local measures are sometimes lacking where they are needed. You also mentioned the positivity ratio. The problem of a higher positivity ratio is that too many infections remain under the radar and therefore there is too little visibility of the spread of the epidemic in a particular region. You refer to WHO and refer to 10%. However, on 12 May 2020, the WHO opinion was amended and a target figure of 5% was given. So we are still a little away from those figures. I hear you're taking that to the Consultation Committee, which is a good thing. As far as non-medical contact professions are concerned, I now understand that it was not a study, but an opinion formulated for that profession. I hope that such advice exists for all professions and all sectors so that they can get started as soon as circumstances permit. It would be a pity if, at the present time, when we asked them to close, we had not made a precise risk assessment of their activities. With regard to the disclosure of the data, you indicate that there will be a brief public report. At the same time, it is important that all data collected by public institutions and all open data are made available. There is even a European directive that states that such disclosure must also be made available and that the data collected through public institutions should be publicly available, i.e. in open access. So I suppose there is another version to which at least scientists have access.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, before I forget, I would like to mention something I forgot to mention. All the data comes out in the open. Sciensano's so-called confidential data, which first arrives with us, will all become public. That's not the issue. It is a question of whether this data should first be transmitted confidentially in a given format and allow others to wait. I don't think we should do that, honestly. I think this will be different from January 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u25	I think so, too. Transparency is also a key to public confidence and cooperation. As far as the federal testing platform is concerned, it is good that collections can still freely choose which lab they work with. I find it strange that they have virtually stopped spinning for the last 14 days, at least not according to Sciensano's graph. Maybe there's something wrong with the report. Nor have I heard anything about the mathematical models nor about the technical briefings for the Chambers Committee that we propose, the sewer water screening, the barometer and the difference of intensive care between the Netherlands and Belgium. I hope these things will be taken further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u26	Mr President, I would like to refer to all my questions for the secretariat. I have not yet received an answer to some of them. I'm glad you finally answered my question about the shots. I think I've asked them ten times. I'm also glad you're clarifying. Last week you told me outside the cameras and the microphones that it wasn't an issue anymore. We both know it's been an issue. Mr De Cuyper, head of the FAGG, also indicated on 13 November 2020 that no syringes were available. It is therefore very good news and, as an opposition member, it is also nice to see that the issues that we are right to make are being followed up on concerns that come from the field. You've been given quite an inheritance. Apparently nothing has been done with my calls that were already launched in July 2020, but you have now been cleared up in a month. I congratulate you on that. It's reassuring for all the vaccinators and especially for our patients. I have not had an answer to the language problem at the triage posts. The care providers report that they are experiencing difficulties in communicating with the patients, including in the facilities municipalities. Are there language guidelines? Is language support provided for healthcare providers? As for next week's EEA approval, Sciensano usually controls the loads further when the vaccines arrive. Will that happen now? How much time will this take? How much will they be paid for that? Will that be a delaying factor, or will we proceed immediately to vaccination of our patients? I would also have liked to know how many vaccines will arrive in the first batch. We know that it will be limited to 300,000 in the first period, but how many will come at the first delivery? Is there any contract for the transport of cold chain vaccines that will be used in the second phase? You've taken steps in mental health care. But I understand that the personal protective materials are only delivered to clinical psychologists who entered the convention. Why is that? Why should the other clinical psychologists not be able to rely on these necessary materials? As far as corona and holidays are concerned, I am sometimes concerned about the statements made by certain politicians from certain regions about compliance with the measures. How will you deal with it? How will you ensure that the rigour of the measures is applied equally in each region, every city and every municipality? Have you provided targeted communication for this purpose? Do you have a directive on this to ensure that we do not experience the same thing as in the summer, where there have been very large differences, the consequences of which must ultimately be borne by the whole population? It is clear that we do not agree on the antigen tests, they cannot be sold in the pharmacy. You mentioned the self-tests. That may be an important fact to take into account in the discussions that you may soon have with the pharmacists. The self-tests will also need some guidance. Perhaps you can find a way to take the pharmacist into the test strategy and make up for what went wrong yesterday. As far as vaccination is concerned, the final year students of the course pharmacy from a number of Flemish universities will receive the course as a vaccineator. This means that in June 2021 a number of trained vaccinators will be added. Perhaps you can take that into account in the test strategy. As you know, there is also an ongoing training course for official pharmacists. But in the future, in the initial training pharmacy, vaccination training will be included in the Flemish universities. I don't know what's going on in Wallonia. Perhaps you can discuss this with your Walloon colleagues, because this seems to me to be an important point. As far as the IMC and the return policy are concerned, I think this is a point of interest. It's Christmas break. I hear from a lot of caregivers that they have patients going on a trip. This is not always welcomed by the care providers. The least we can do is make sure that people, as soon as they come home, are tested and comply with the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u27	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. It was a good fishing today! I understand that the Supreme Council of Health will issue a new opinion on January 15 for patients under the age of 45 with co-morbidities. We will therefore await its conclusions. I have also heard that there has been no increase in the consumption of anxiolytics and hypnotics in our country compared to France. Thank you for the data. I won't be longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Hinge. I did not know that Mr Vandenbroucke was also Minister of Fisheries, but I know that Mr Vandenbroucke was also Minister of Fisheries. Van Quickenborne is in charge of the North Sea. It's another form of fishing!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u29	Mr Minister, if I understand you correctly, there is another chronology involved in Sciensano's confidential data. In any case, it is a good thing that this is being dealt with in a different way from January onwards. After all, if the public gets the impression that information is being withheld, it is never good for the support of the measures. I had put in a question about the deferred care. We have not really talked about it, but I believe that communication on it is absolutely important. I hear from the specialists that they often detect cancer cases that they could have discovered perfectly at an earlier stage. If I hear that intestinal cancer screening is not going as it should, nor breast cancer prevention, then you should focus on communication, so that more rapid preventive investigations are carried out, as planned, and contact a doctor with each disease. Much more emphasis needs to be placed on this than at present. As far as communication on vaccinations is concerned, I still find this strange. Viewed by a marketing glasses, I wonder if they really want to get into the news with the symbolic delivery of the first 10,000 vaccines. I understand that 4 percent of the vaccinees have a more severe reaction, other than a stiff arm and a slightly feverish feeling. I think 4% is a lot. I see Mrs Fonck's gestures that 4% is not much. I do think that we should communicate about this fairly, Minister. If the 150 Members of Parliament receive the vaccine, 6 will suffer a little more. I believe that we should communicate about this openly and honestly, in all transparency. You say that the general practitioners are well informed at the moment. That is absolutely welcome, but I think we should go further than the general practitioners. Everyone in primary care needs the right information. If there are any wrong messages on it, there must be fact-checkers on it. You underline that we must engage in dialogue with and listen to the doubters. This is absolutely necessary to achieve the 70% vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u30	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, thank you for your answers. Compared to the tracker dog method, I am delighted to hear that it is promising and that it will be able to provide services. On the other hand, at the level of self-tests, it is true that I had a concern because some pharmacies sell tests to carry out themselves. The results are random and interpretation, in particular, really raises questions. But that's another problem. Compared to Pfizer, if I understand correctly, we will have even fewer doses in early January than expected. But you've reported it, you're totally dependent on these deliveries. We therefore hope that, thanks to the contracts that were subsequently concluded, they will follow. I guess we have to wait for marketing authorization anyway. On the other hand, I did not hear a response to the target group of pregnant women for covid vaccine. This may be the subject of a future question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u31	Mr President, Minister, three points! First of all, thank you for your clarification regarding the payment of the exceptional premium. This is important for the hospital staff concerned. I am counting on you to meet these commitments to the hospital sector as of December 21. I think it is also important to remind hospital institutions of what was mentioned in the circular, namely that the amount of the premium must be paid to each worker concerned by 31 December. I'm counting on you. Secondly, on Friday, you will still have a complicated task, and you will obviously be in the spotlight, as every time, with as much opinion as possible on the decisions that will be taken. I really invite you to keep the course of measures that take into account the human. The first thing, to take account of the human person, is to take measures that guarantee the protection of all and protect us from a third wave. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, to all of us, I think this is our last Health Committee of the year, at least subject to reservation, and I wish you all the best. Take good care of yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. You couldn't say anything about the purchase contracts because they're confidential. Test Purchasing had a problem with this and will request it in the context of public administration, following a number of dossiers. Are you saying that the contracts are not covered by this obligation and we will therefore have to wait for the European Commission to release them? I don't think your answer to my questions about the Test Purchase Sage is really sufficient. As far as the vaccination strategy is concerned, did I not get an answer to the questions about whether people infected by the virus and who have acquired immunity are also vaccinated? Can this cause problems, as they have, so to speak, an overdose of antibodies by increasing their immunity via the vaccine? Is it necessary to vaccinate them at all and isn't that money thrown away and thrown away? You may not have an answer to that yourself, but I would advise you to take the question with you to one of the advisory bodies with experts who might know. In the edge of that, what about group immunity? At the beginning of September it was reported that it had not increased significantly and was around 5 or 6%. Is there any new information on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. In reply to my question about the duration of the corona measures, depending on whether or not they are vaccinated, I was given an opportunity to reply, your classic answer that we must not go ahead. I did not receive an answer to my question concerning the list of mandatory vaccinations for the care staff and the COOVID-19 vaccine, for the second time in fact. As far as the question of the additional measures is concerned, I have received an evasive answer. Very little is being done, even today, because you did not want to anticipate it. You did answer the question about the super-distributors. If I understand correctly, you will try to collect data. You have not answered my question about the vaccination of expats, Belgians abroad. I also had a question about returning travellers or transit passengers from red zones. In November, 110,000 people from red zones entered our country. There were hardly any of them tested. Of the few tested, about 8% were positive. This is not entirely economically correct, but if we extrapolate that figure to 110,000 returning travellers from red zones, then we have a little 9,000 infected returners. If we are looking for an explanation for today's disturbing figures, that factor can certainly play a part. We can only see that today's figures are the result of the implemented or better the non-implemented test strategy. About the public and confidential version of Sciensano's reports, you say there's nothing confidential or secret about it. I would like to believe you, but if there is nothing secret about these reports, you could have made those reports available immediately and you would not have had to wait until, so to speak, you were caught with your hand in the cookie jar, if necessary with the necessary explanation. Then no rooster would have crowded at it. Better yet, perhaps you could have saved some work as transparency champion Sciensano by asking for a version of those reports. If I understand correctly, that's what you'll do. Better late than never. I think it's a problem how things have come up. That creates little or no confidence. More importantly, this is how the public is growing distrust and that is the last thing we can use in view of the upcoming vaccination campaigns in January and later. I hope we can agree on that. Finally, I would like to wish everyone, not without some cynicism, with a wink, pleasant lockdown parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u34	Minister, my questions are insistent. Child protection is a priority issue. You have just given me some information on the analysis you asked the inter-federal spokesman about underestimation of the impact of small children on the spread of the virus. I thank you for that, and I will remain attentive to it, you know that. Education is a fundamental right and a parental duty. School is essential for the development of the child. The school learns, lives, evolves and fights against social inequalities. It secures and reassures. However, uncertainty raises this important question: is the school dangerous? You are confirming to me today that there is an increasing number of infections and that the latest indications should not be overlooked, that the vigilance of children should be increased at the level of children. You note that it is necessary to be more careful to protect children and that there is a need to worry about acceleration, among other things for children. That is very clear and indeed what I have been thinking for several weeks. A third wave must be avoided. As you do not move forward on the measures, should schools be kept open? If the answer is yes, effective measures, complementary to the red code, are essential. The mask can be worn as early as six years with an adult's pedagogical accompaniment. An adaptation of schedules and classes and rapid testing are tracks that must be considered without delay. If the answer is no, any announcement that has an impact on the school rhythm must be communicated early enough so that parents, teachers and children can prepare for planning and organizing, in order to ensure school learning in another way. Any uncertainty creates stress and affects the children and youth we need to protect and who are not spared in mental health either. I hope that we can act quickly, Minister, and as pedagogically as possible. Please, avoid the risk, take the necessary precautionary measures, for our schoolchildren, their teachers and their families!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u35	Mr President, I understand that the Minister cannot anticipate everything, but I welcome the answers I have received. I am also looking forward to the results of Friday's Consultation Committee. The Minister says that we are not in a period of relaxation today, and that is not good news, but I would certainly like to express my support for him. After all, he is not in an easy situation in that Consultative Committee either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u36	Mr Minister, I have not received any answers to certain questions, for example on the dates for the test indications. I did not ask any questions about what the Consultation Committee is going to deal with the day after tomorrow, but I do think you should be accountable. In this respect, however, we remain hungry. I don't understand why you're so smiling about the demand for open data, like there weren't two reports. We know there are indeed two reports. It is a problem that not everything is published and I urge that this should happen. The data on source and contact research should be included in the Sciensano reports in a concise, clear way, otherwise we will not be able to get an overview of the epidemic. If you know where the source and contact data are, tell me. So not everything is available. The question of protectionism with regard to certain dates that have come from journalists also lives in scientific centres and is certainly relevant. But you're laughing away. As far as testing strategy is concerned, today only 30% of PCR capacity is used. You will also continue to ban the fact that the results will be too late. I've heard that some of the labs and secretaries working for the federal testing platform today are getting paid when they're actually spinning their thumbs. However, the epidemic is strong and we know that we are not testing enough people. I think this should be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u37	Mrs Merckx, you've got to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u38	Minister, I do not follow what you have said about the source research either. For weeks it appears that there is no answer and nothing happens to the questions asked to the people in the source research. You completely banalize that. To manage and control the epidemic, we have to do more than just lockdown in and lockdown out, opening and closing sectors. After so many months, we must succeed in getting a better grip on this epidemic. It is very difficult for the population, but you simply banish it and pretend that there is only a small information problem. I note that you meet a great deal, but that there is not enough concrete action in the field of, among other things, source research and testing. About the care...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u39	Mrs Merckx, please be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u40	Yeah, but I'd like to say this anyway. Minister, the reason why hospitals have not yet paid the premium is because they have not yet received the money from the federal government and do not have the money themselves. I really find it scandalous to hear that people who worked in the first wave and who are ill in the second wave because of a disease contracted in the first wave will not get the premium. That is an injustice against which you really must intervene. It's incomprehensible. Finally, I would like to say...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u41	Mrs Merckx, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u42	All right, Mr President, I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u43	You may ask for the floor in a second round of replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u44	Mr President, I will keep it a little shorter. Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your answers. The fact that today is basically the first delivery of syringes and needles is good news. I'm glad to hear that. I have asked you whether it is appropriate to allow people under 45 years of age with underlying risk-aggravating diseases to receive a vaccine more quickly. I have noted that you will take that question and make a decision in a month's time at the latest. I believe you have not answered my question about the Coronalert app. Coincidentally, my daughter's going through a minor procedure tomorrow. She had to get tested and installed the app. At no time was she asked if she downloaded the app, let alone which one is the code. It shall undergo the second test. The first time I wrote down the code on the prescription she had received, but the result never got in the app. So maybe no link was made in the lab. The result of this test was negative, but I think it is important that both positive and negative tests are recorded. I would therefore ask you to draw attention to this in both the people taking tests and the labs, so that they ask for the installation of the app.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think we share the same view, which is a positive element. The indicators are indeed bad and we are now experiencing a rebound in the epidemic. When we know the exponential dynamics of this virus, obviously we must not deceive ourselves about the evolution to be feared in the next few days. I would like to return to the issue of schools. The fact that children are indeed vectors of transmission of the virus is not new. I am somewhat surprised at the position of the MR Group in this respect. When Minister Jeholet demanded that schools remain open, he could not ignore the fact that children were vectors and spread the virus within intra-family bubbles, allowing the virus to move from the younger generation to the older generations and, therefore, more at risk. I take note of your comments on testing, tracing and isolation. In this regard, I will take your figures. You say that an average of 2,977 people are contacted a day, but when we know that 2,000 people are currently tested positive every day, it means that a positive person would have met only one person in the days before, and that obviously does not hold the road. For once, you take note of the significant deficiencies observed in the testing, tracing and effectiveness of isolation. You are right to say that we miss out on symptomatic people who are not being tested, but it is not just that, minister. In the field, we also miss asymptomatic people who are known to have been in contact, simply because we know that this does not follow at the level of tracing. This is therefore a real problem, which once again raises the question of why these people are not traced or tested. Therefore, should the situation not be reviewed in order to facilitate proximity testing? I come back here to the debate we had two days ago on rapid antigenic tests at pharmacies. With regard to the carers' premium, it is easy for you to accuse hospitals, but we will see when the money will actually arrive. However, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that some staff members are now forgotten, including laboratory staff who have mobilized as reinforcements where necessary. Thank you for your answer to the question of midwives, and I hope that the question of home-based nurses will be resolved quickly. Finally, I draw your attention to the people who were punished twice, who were infected with coronavirus after going to the front during the first wave, and who are now left on the side. Finally on the vaccine, given the announcements made about the delay in the delivery of certain vaccines, it will be necessary to have the courage to review the strategy in relation to certain orders. It could now be re-evaluated, re-engineered, re-adjusted. There is actually no reason to wait until January 5th to start vaccination and recognize that this story of 10,000 symbolic vaccines really raises the question of the content of the contract! Indeed, when we see that in the United Kingdom and in the United States there is already massive vaccination and that we in Europe have only a few thousand doses, this raises questions about the content of contracts. I say it again, minister. I know it's been ten times, but every time I go back to the subject. You must be fully transparent about contracts. It is too easy to postpone the point to Europe. You have yourself, as a government, made choices about the type of purchase, the type of contract, the choices, the doses, etc. In this regard, you must act in a transparent manner. It is a question of adherence to the campaign and confidence in it. I finish by wishing every member a nice party in a small committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u46	Minister, thank you for these answers. We are all looking forward to Friday's Consultation Committee. One positive point I have to point out is that we will finally learn the lessons of cross-border travel with Luxembourg in order to increase controls with the Netherlands and Germany. I think, unfortunately, we no longer have a choice. The negative point is that you keep repeating the three thresholds of the famous barometer. Therefore, you are not responding to my proposal to include in these barometer thresholds the rate of reproduction. I think this is a mistake because this is essential, especially when you know – it has been recalled by Mr. Van Laethem, this morning – that when this rate exceeds unity, the situation can quickly get worse and worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u47	Mrs. Rohonyi, he's in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u48	But it wasn't in the three big thresholds that you keep repeating, or it got away from me, and I apologize. You're saying that intelligent containment needs to be organized. Can you specify? In any case, I understand it as a targeted containment rather than a closure of entire sectors of our economy each time. This requires effective detection of the various outbreaks of contamination. That is what has been repeatedly repeated by the experts, particularly in the Covid committee, and is still not the case today, despite the tools at our disposal. Perhaps we should move towards massive testing campaigns as France did this month? As far as the vaccination strategy is concerned, I mean it remains unchanged. You keep the date of January 5. I am surprised that you are already announcing that needles and syringes are arriving in Belgium today. You maintain the priority groups. Nor do you answer my question as to whether a reserve can be used by Belgium, which is still one of the countries producing the Pfizer vaccine. Students working in the care sector and caregivers are also concerned about not being placed in the priority groups for the vaccine. You want to be reassuring about the information that will be provided to the public. I fully agree when you say that you have to listen to the people and answer their questions. Nevertheless, Mr Englert had made a commitment that the communication would start in mid-December. We are there and still do not have a communication strategy. Not to mention, throughout this time, it is the anti-vaccines that answer the many questions of the population. You gave us a demonstration earlier to reassure us about the side effects. We already have elements to reassure the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u49	Mrs. Depoorter has now asked questions because she couldn't go sooner. So I will respond to that. On the question of language, I can be rather short, but also very basic. Language legislation applies in triage posts and contact tracing. Communication in these centres is a competence of the sub-entities. So I can only mention the principle. In the case of more specific problems in the exercise of these powers, this should perhaps be followed up further in the Flemish Parliament or one of the other parliaments. We'll look at other speakers. For example, there is also multilingual information, which can be found on the official websites. In these circumstances, a serious health crisis, we should preferably approach people who speak all kinds of languages and are present in this country, preferably in their own language. The basic framework is language legislation. You then had a series of questions regarding the organisation of the vaccination campaign. I have already answered a number of questions during my replies, but I have not answered a number of questions. Who's responsible for the freezing and reupping? In phase 1A, the thawing of the vaccines is carried out by the hospital pharmacists. They shall have the necessary equipment and qualified personnel. The preparation of the vaccines, including dilution, will take place where the vaccination of the patients will take place, i.e. in retirement homes in the next few weeks. How does storage of the vaccine proceed at the right temperature? The detention at the vaccination point is the responsibility of the federated entity. If it is necessary to transport vaccines from a large vaccination centre to other smaller vaccination points, such as rest homes, the FAGG will monitor the transport so that it is carried out by specialised and approved batches that guarantee the storage conditions during transport and perfect traceability. Then you asked what control mechanisms are in place to detect side effects. For simplicity, I will answer in French. AFMPS participates in the European effort to quickly identify a possible safety signal. This will include monitoring of adverse events of particular interest, as defined by the WHO and the European Medicines Agency, and will identify rarer adverse reactions. Surveillance of Sciensano will also monitor the evolution of vaccine coverage in different groups and detect cases of vaccine failure. The results of vaccine surveillance will be communicated regularly to health professionals and the general public through appropriate newsletters or appropriate internal sites. I had partly replied to questions about transport. Will Sciensano check every batch and how? Sciensano will carry out quality control of lots independently before they are placed on the European market by producers, as required by European legislation. Sciensano is a major player in the European Official Medicines Control Laboratory (OMCL), coordinated by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare (EDQM) based in Strasbourg. The OMCL network laboratories work in a mutual recognition system, so a batch is tested by a single OMCL. The OMCL network controls 100% of consignments destined for Europe. Sciensano will therefore release lots that will not necessarily be distributed in Belgium. The duration of the check depends on the number of tests to be performed and their complexity. European legislation provides for a maximum of 60 days between the date of receipt of samples, the production protocol and the inspection of the lot submitted by the producer and the issuance of the certificate of conformity by the OMCL. In practice, firms send the product batches to be tested to the OMCL of their choice, which analyses them in parallel in order to release batches within a few days. Each OMCL sets out the cost of services provided to and at the expense of third parties in order to reflect the costs (staff, operations, investment, overhead). I have answered your questions in the light of what I have already said. Mrs Zanchetta, as far as pregnant women are concerned, I do not think there is any study at the moment to draw conclusions. In short, caution remains to be exercised. We really have to wait for further studies to answer this very specific question. Therefore, for the time being, you should be told that pregnant women are not vaccinated. Mrs. Gijbels, I actually forgot. I'm a little intrigued by an interesting comment from you about hospitalizations in the Netherlands. I don't really have an analysis of that. It is clear that people in the Netherlands are less easily admitted to hospital. We have a different medical culture and organization. With us, it's easier to get hospitalized. I am not saying the right choice, the right one, about which of the two countries is doing the best. My analysis of the Dutch situation is that there is a culture and policy structure there, which makes it less easy for people to get to a hospital. You say this wasn't so clear at the first wave. That's interesting. We should investigate that. If you have any information about this, they are very welcome. I don't really have an answer to that, in all honesty. Mr De Caluwé, I was actually losing sight of your comment on the malfunctioning of the app. It is true that the caregivers themselves play an important role in correctly linking the Coronalert app to a covid test prescription. The one-time identification code of the app is therefore requested in the electronic form laboratory test request. This link is necessary to make the test result also available via Coronalert, so that a positively tested person can notify his or her previously registered contacts via the app. The general practitioners and triage centres were informed about this in a comprehensive manner from the start. First of all, this was done through the federated entities that are competent to do so. If the test instruction does not contain an app identification code, the person tested will receive a text message. This message contains a link to a web form where, if desired, the citizen can still link the app to receive the test result. In order to keep the public and healthcare professionals aware of the app and its functioning, extensive communication has already been made. However, it is mainly the competence of the federated entities. A recent update also allows citizens to link their own tests to the Coronalert reference code. This update relieves the general practitioners and purchasing centres and also contributes to an improved contact search, especially for people who do not know each other personally. Finally, I would like to say the following, perhaps as a conclusion to our work for this year. Some Members ask why I do not say anything about what will be on the Conciliation Committee. I have a little bit of an old-fashioned view on this, but I think it is a good one in parliamentary democracy. You cannot force a minister, a member of the government to speak about his intentions, which are not very relevant either. One must speak and discuss facts and decisions. You can talk about a minister's policy paper, but it is not very wise of me to answer questions today about the intentions of a consultation committee. I shouldn't. You may regret that, but I shouldn't do that. We are in a consultation, a negotiation, on the basis of facts and data coming in, and I prefer to stick to that old-fashioned deontology and understanding of the relationship between the government and Parliament, but we can of course disagree on that. Finally, I would also like to endorse the wishes for the new year. We got to know each other a little bit, I hope we'll get to know each other even better next year, in better conditions. It's been a hell of a year. We can only hope that the new year will be better and that it will offer a prospect of gradual liberation from the claws of the virus. I also believe that this can be achieved if we all make an effort, which does not mean that we do not look with great care at what is happening in us and in our neighbouring countries. However, I wish you all a very pleasant end year, probably in very small circles, but I hope for happy moments with you all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for these additional answers. Then I'm gonna go back to the list. Please try to stay within the three-minute time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u51	I am pleased to hear that you will take the question of whether we should focus on reducing the positivity ratio to the Consultation Committee. As far as barometer and wastewater screening are concerned, I can't wait to see what's going to happen with it. As far as the functioning of the federal testing platform is concerned, I now hear from my colleague that staff also indicate that little is happening there. So we would also like to have an update on this. I think these people could be well deployed to bring down the positivity ratio. I will provide you with the details of the recordings in the Netherlands via your employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u52	Minister, you did not answer my question as to why personal protective equipment is not provided for the clinical psychologists who are not in the convention. Nor have you answered my questions concerning regional differences in monitoring measures, but also monitoring them and communicating them. You can certainly give me that answer in writing. Do I understand correctly that Sciensano is paid by Europe for the checks? Or does this happen by the producer? That wasn't clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u53	You're making me doubt you. I'll see if I can get the exact information on that. No, I don't have an answer, in all honesty. Ik heb gezegd: "specifies the cost of services for and at the expense of third parties". So they're getting paid by the ones they're doing it for. But I have to clarify that more precisely, because I am not 100% sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u54	I would have liked to know whether it was the European dome or the producers? That was my last question. Also because of me and my colleagues merry Christmas. It was indeed a rollercoaster for all of us. However, I do like working together in a committee where each Member has one practice: to ensure that we get through this covid crisis as best we can and that we support our healthcare providers and our patients. Enjoy a little bit of small circle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u55	Ms. Hennuy had to go to another meeting, she just reported in the chat. I have nothing more to add in substance. I agree with the fine words of my fellow Members about the two weeks ahead of us. I sincerely hope that we will not see each other again until 5 January. That means that the numbers also calm a bit and that they do not rise exponentially. If that happens, we'll meet again sooner than January 5th, I'm afraid. For this reason alone, I hope that we will have two weeks of relative peace, in a limited circle. I wish everyone the best.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u56	Mr. Secretary, you say that we disagree from time to time. That's right. That is also the intention of democracy. It is a credit to this House that organised differences of opinion can be resolved in a very peaceful way. My question about the list of mandatory vaccinations for health professionals and nurses has once again not been answered. Maybe I should ask the question in French. I will now submit them for the third time. Hopefully she'll be treated at the next session. Furthermore, I have no more comments, unless everyone still wishes for pleasant lockdown parties in a limited circle. I'm sure we'll see each other again tomorrow, and for the rest until next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u57	Mr Minister, you have not really answered my supplementary questions anymore. I will retable the question concerning immunity. Otherwise, I don't have any more questions. I wish the colleagues, the minister and the staff a very good party at the end of the year. Don't let the corona virus spoil the fun.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u58	Mr President, I have no additional comments. I just want to wish my fellow Members happy parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I did not receive an answer to my question that only 36% of the lab applications can be reduced to the indication. Only half of them are submitted electronically. How will you improve that? I think this is a task ahead of us. I would also like to comment on Pfizer's double announcement. On the one hand, the company offers only half of the vaccines ordered, on the other hand, the company delivers a promotional dose faster.I have reservations about participating in that game. Should Pfizer share his technology with the world, that vaccine can be produced anywhere. Pfizer exploits his monopoly position, does not share his knowledge and then it will also use our risk patients for a promostunt. I believe that this will also effectively cause ethical problems, because who will receive these 5,000 promo vaccines? I would like to appeal to you not to go along fully with that. I also wish all colleagues and the staff of the Chamber happy holidays and a happy New Year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I fully endorse the year-end wishes of my fellow Members. I wish all Members and all Members of Parliament and of the various groups a quiet end year after a very moving year. I think everyone deserves that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u61	Minister, I'm not mad at you. Personally, I find it normal when you don't explain your intentions. I find it more special when you do not respond to the House as you speak in the press. It's a little bit to throw you a positive pole for next year! I will allow you to complete your comments on the vaccine. The general public regularly listens to these commissions. You said that there were more side effects in The New England Journal of Medicine's study than I personally did from A to Z. That's normal. You have to be able to say it. There are more side effects in a vaccine group than in a placebo group because vaccine reactions are part of the evidence that immunity is developed. Not reacting to a vaccine is much more annoying, as it could show that no immune response is developing. Among the serious side effects, there were a total of six deaths in the study involving approximately 40,000 people: four in the placebo group, two in the vaccine group and none in the vaccine group was related to the product as such. The etiology is a priori vascular. I have already wished you all a great holiday and I hope above all that health will go in the right direction. I also thank the staff, the secretaries of the commission, the interpreters, the bailiffs, because, admittedly, this commission has been under heavy pressure and there has been a lot of work for the staff. I would like to thank them and do so on behalf of you all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u62	Mr President, I join my colleagues in wishing, in my turn, good holidays as far as possible in the light of the circumstances. I wish the Minister great courage, because we are all aware of the immense task that he is facing today and of the enormous work that he must do. I hope to find him back in better circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic319x.u63	I also wish you all a good holiday. It was a pleasure for me to chair this committee, despite this year's stress. I think we have had a good cooperation in the committee. It was a pleasure for me to work with all of you, all of you. I see that collaboration with the new minister is going well. It is a pleasure to be able to work with Minister Vandenbroucke in these difficult circumstances. Our committee was very productive. We have dealt with many legislative proposals here, organised hearings and closely monitored the covid crisis, without losing sight of the other health issues, such as mental health. Furthermore, as a committee for equal opportunities, we have also held hearings with catchy testimonies of intersex individuals. I would, of course, like to associate myself with the thanks extended to the staff. Our committee has indeed been very productive and has caused quite a lot of work, as Mrs Fonck pointed out. I wish each and every one of you a very good holiday and I hope that everything will be for the best as well as for all our fellow citizens. We will meet again at the beginning of January or in plenary this afternoon again or tomorrow.
