ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u2	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Karin Jiroflée, Laurence H annoyée, Barbara Creemers, Hervé Rigot, Daniel Bacquelaine, Nathalie Muylle, Robby De Caluwé.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this proposal is to support the nursing staff who, of course, are highly involved and who are very over-questioned in the management of the covid health crisis. Exceptionally, during the management of the crisis, nursing activities can be carried out by persons who are not legally competent to do so. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just had a rather broad discussion in committee. A number of committee members have expressed their concerns about the legislative proposal that is now before the vote. For example, the definition of care tasks and, where appropriate, the definition of care professions that will have access to the tasks were discussed. People also wondered about the tasks involved. The suggestion was made to broaden the exhaustive list of actions that can be outsourced in order to make it safer. Concerns were also expressed as to whether or not physical monitoring is necessary. Legal responsibilities were also addressed and will be further examined. The training, who will give it and what the responsibilities are, was also mentioned. A colleague pointed out the respect for nurses and also the extensive training needed by nurses in order to carry out the very responsible tasks they have. All colleagues agree that the nurses deserve our respect and that they clearly play a very important role in managing this crisis. During the discussion, the Minister indicated that a technical committee would be convened to prepare the royal decree and that the Health Committee would be able to monitor the progress of that technical committee. There will therefore be a link back to the Health Committee. Two amendments were adopted. The first amendment shortens the deadline until 1 April instead of 1 July. The second amendment clarifies that the outsourcing of nursing duties will only take place when all existing legal means are exhausted. Thus, the outsourcing of tasks will only take place when it is really necessary. The present bill was approved by all political groups except one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of hands on the bed did not arise yesterday or together with the corona crisis, the problem has been known for years. Flemish Interest cannot get rid of the impression that this bill is a patch on a wooden leg that the care community needs to give some sort of Planckaert family feeling about politics. One gets the impression that members of the majority sing from each other at a distance of one and a half meters: "We are doing well, even if they say they are not." Flemish interest cannot get away from the impression that this is once again a proposal which is being chased by the committee and Parliament, in order to hide the fact that this structural problem has been catching dust for years. Colleagues, I indicated in committee that Flemish Interest will approve the bill with some caution, with some reservations and with some substitute shame. We are ashamed and we feel shame, because this House, Parliament, after some symbolic applause and some white sheets hanging from our windows, is unable to produce anything other than yet another post factum hocuspocus law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are making reservations because the'special times call for special measures' is gradually getting agitated and if not a dangerous excuse. I heard the petitioners in the Health Committee declare that our house is on fire and that we need more firefighters. That's right, there's no pin in there. However, we must do away with fires when the house starts to burn and not when it has almost completely collapsed. Colleagues, the deficit was already there. The deficit is now there and the deficit will still be there despite this well-meaning proposal. It's the patch on the wooden leg, which I mentioned earlier. The fact that Flemish Interest questions many aspects of the proposal shows that we do not just approve the proposal, but that we do so with a critical but constructive spirit. Colleagues, we have doubts and critical reservations about, for example, who the proposal applies to, the medical background of those who will be authorised, the various cumulative conditions mentioned in the proposal, the woolly or sometimes even missing definition of certain concepts, the responsibility, the training aspect, the liability, the remuneration and even more. Colleagues, as I have already said, these doubts and reservations must show that we do not just approve the proposal. Colleagues, I will end with the quote I already put on the Committee on Health. It's a quote from the world's most famous plumber who said he'd solve the problems when they rise. That's something we have to stop doing. We must not solve the problems when they arise and not when, as with this proposal, it is actually a little too late. We should anticipate and anticipate the problems. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we, as Flemish Interest, subscribe to the spirit of this bill, not because we are so enthusiastic about it, but because we do not really have much other choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the speech that was made earlier in committee. We have been able to debate at length and at large, and I refer to my speech in committee. However, I shall try briefly to summarize it for the plenary. We are all aware of the seriousness of the situation in hospitals. We all understand how acute the staff problem is, particularly in intensive care services, in the face of the second wave that has not yet been completed. Yesterday, I received 80 testimonies from nurses, nurses and caregivers. Many staff were waiting for an ambitious government plan to solve the problem of how to remobilize the 19,000 people in Belgium who have a nursing degree but do not practise in the sector and study ways to, among other things, make working conditions more acceptable in order to attract people back to the sector. I am, of course, talking about wage increases, but also about access to pensions. As you know, the prospect of working as a nurse until the age of 67 is an impossible prospect. We could have had a proposal from Parliament today, in particular to consider the function of nurses as a difficult job with the possibility of leaving early retirement, for example at the age of 60 with 40 years of career. Rather than having this kind of proposal, we have another proposal that is on the table today, which is to allow people who do not have the diploma of nurse to practice acts that yet require this type of diploma. This is a serious decision, as you know, not only in terms of the status of the sector but also in terms of the competence needed to carry out this type of act. That is what is regrettable. Today, I also put myself in the place of patients who say: "If I am on my hospital bed, will the person who will take care of me, who will treat me well, have the diploma required to do so qualitatively?" That is more than worrying in the proposal that is being made today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u7	It seems to me essential that such an important law should involve social consultation with the sector: discussions with the unions and discussions with the associations of nurses. I expected an in-depth discussion, not one of two hours after which everything was decided, but a really in-depth discussion on what needs to be done to solve the problem on the ground. There hasn't been that discussion. I'm sorry about that, in one of those files. The same mistake has already been made under Mrs. De Block. It also pursued such a policy that it did not listen to the sector. Now, under the Vivaldi government, we would have expected a different policy, especially with a socialist minister for health. But apparently there's the same way of working. People keep going, there is no such thing as social dialogue. It is only after the decision that the unions are agreed that they are going to go through with it that they are going to see what is going to happen. That is not my vision of political action, especially when it comes to such an important sector as the health sector. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would have preferred a law to be passed here saying that it is still forbidden, but there is a case-by-case discussion of which functions may be exercised by people without qualifications. There is a very different philosophy here: everything is allowed, except for four exceptions. I do not understand that logic is being applied. That is why the PVDA Group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u8	Madam President, I would like to ask for the floor to explain why we are not asking to speak. In the report, the link with the committee meeting will not be clear, and if we abstain from commenting, it might give the impression that there is a certain disinterest. That is not the case at all. For the report, therefore, I refer to the extensive discussion we had a few moments ago in committee. That is why my group is not speaking now. Do not let this be interpreted as a lack of interest in the theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u9	Madam President, I will also be very brief and refer to my remarks in committee. I would just like to point out in a few words that we are all aware here of the seriousness of the situation, that nurses are at the forefront of the fight against the epidemic, that they should be reassured, comforted and supported. In fact, this bill is annoying them, and we understand why. They made very constructive proposals a few months ago, and still a few weeks ago, which you did not respond to. They had realistic and positive perspectives, projections and proposals to ensure the safety of care, and you did not respond to them either. You create additional uncertainty and stress by assigning responsibility for delegating tasks to people who are not qualified. You cannot convince us about the mobilization of 20 0000 people who are qualified, since they are nurses who, today, cannot provide care because they have other constraints. These people cannot be mobilized through your proposal. They will not be able to respond to the thousands of job offers that are already vacant. You say, for example, that you will be able to mobilize students, nurses and senior nurses. But, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Jiroflée, they are already on the ground. Let me conclude by saying that we will not vote against this text, despite all its imperfections, despite everything I have said, but against the fact that, notwithstanding your statements, you have not listened to the sector. Despite your statements, contrary to what we are paying attention, respect has not been a matter of consultation, of dialogue with the representatives of the sector. In addition, this proposal will not mobilize the qualified personnel required in intensive care units, in VOCID units, wherever staff are at the front to fight this epidemic. Unfortunately, it will not be possible to replace people in burn-out, who are sick, or to support those who are still on the front and who need to be listened to and their proposals taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I too will not comment on the proposal. We had a good discussion and we agreed not to speak here anymore. Apparently, not everyone keeps that deal. I'll stick to that. However, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow Members for their excellent cooperation and discussion this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I also did not intend to intervene. The Public Health Commission ended just an hour ago. This afternoon, everyone was able to express their views on the text of the proposal before us – very long and with great relevance. That being the case, I would like to make a point. One of the members of this assembly said that the proposal could cause anxiety among patients, who may believe that they will be treated by unqualified individuals. I just heard it. I find this reflection scandalous! Indeed, it does not reflect the spirit of this proposal. Earlier, I myself asked several questions about the profile of people who could be called upon to receive a voluntary delegation of competence from a nurse. The minister reassured us, even asking that this be included in the report, since he explained to us that priority would be given to health professionals and, beyond that, to students and trainees in the same sector. I myself stressed that it was essential that the duty of assistance that we want to establish through this proposal should involve people with skills and training. That is the spirit of this text! Therefore, to suggest that the public and the sick could legitimately worry about the care they would receive, I find such comments scandalous and irresponsible in view of the dramatic period that we are going through today. No, I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about Mr. Hedebouw. Let us be very clear: this proposal reflects a duty of assistance vis-à-vis staff, who fight on the front line in hospital institutions, as well as patients, patients and those who are at risk of becoming such tomorrow and who are entitled to quality care. That is, therefore, the spirit of this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u12	Madam President, like my colleagues, I am not going to repeat the debate that we have just had in the Committee on Health. I would just like to make it clear that, if my group does not support this text today, it is not because it rose this morning and decided to do so. It is because he was listening to the sector that does not want this text. The sector does not want this text because it does not agree on both the substance and the form. As far as the form is concerned, Minister, you should have consulted with him beforehand, and this has not been done. The sector is now faced with fait accompli. It notes that a text is being drawn up concerning the acts which they impose, acts which require a four-year training. Nursery acts don't go unnoticed. They require training, supervision. This is what you are planning in your text, but it tells you that these nurses will have time to properly train these people to ensure that this health care is of quality. The urgency is to allow nurses to be at the patient's bedside to ensure quality care is provided. As a result, they will not have time to train and supervise. That's not why our nurses are in our hospitals. That's not why our nurses are in nursing homes or at home to help patients. I just wanted to insist on that. For the rest, Minister, you will be able to count on our support to move us together towards a re-evaluation of the profession. As has been said, we have seen a shortage of nurses for too long. And to remedy this, there is no secret: we must work to make this profession more attractive. As long as you have this will and you work in this direction with the sector, we will support you. But forgive me, your entry in this matter was not the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u13	Madam President, I would just like to point out our amendments. We want to retable the amendments that we put to the vote in committee and which were not adopted. We want to do that again because we think they are important. I have noted from the previous statements that we have heard our Amendment No, for example. 5. The legal text is now only talking about four acts, ocharm. We are submitting the amendment again because we believe that the list of excluded acts should be established as soon as possible, and that means as soon as the legislative proposal is adopted, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, not in the near future, but as soon as possible. A list of professions for which practitioners are eligible to be delegated certain nursing tasks makes it easier for a coordinated nurse to carry out an initial triage of persons to whom certain nursing tasks can be entrusted. That's important, isn't it? We are submitting these amendments again because we are listening to the field and that was one of the sighs that we were made clear in connection with the legislative proposal. Our Amendment No. 6 seems to be the logic itself, but was not so logical, since it was not adopted by the committee. It seems logic itself that if we delegate tasks, it will primarily be the logistical and administrative tasks that we remove from the nurses, thereby reducing their workload. I think that is the logic itself, but it seems that this is not so clear to my fellow Members, because that amendment was not approved either. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that with my clear explanation you will still see the light and approve those small commas and points, which are very important in the dossier, if only to show that you are listening to the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u14	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u15	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1618/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1618/4) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u16	• 6... Steven Creyelman cs (1618/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u17	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u18	Sustained: the amendments and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u19	Article adopted by article: 1, 3-4.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u20	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u21	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Steven Creyelman cs on article 2. (1618/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Steven Creyelman cs to Article 2. (1618/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 13 Yes No. 117 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u22	Madam President, I could not log in for this vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u23	We take into account your point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u24	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert an article 2/1(n). (1618/5) Vote on amendment No 6 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert an article 2/1(n). (1618/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u25	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u26	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 118 Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1618/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1618/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-05-55-plenair-ip069x.u27	The agenda for next week had already been adopted earlier. So all I have to do is close the session. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 12, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 November 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
