ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u1	Minister, about 70% of employees are covered by a group insurance scheme, which ensures that they receive a supplementary pension when they retire. This supplementary pension, the second pillar, is on top of the statutory pension, the first pillar. A review by the Financial Services and Markets Authority shows that there is a problem with the second pillar. Both in the short and long term, there is a problem with pension obligations. Two out of three pension plans cannot currently pay the promised amounts on their own. Each employee would require a deposit of an average of 4,000 to 7,000 euros. Minister, how many workers are affected by this? How many deficits are we talking about? Or how can the second pillar be guaranteed? If a company goes bankrupt, is the amount guaranteed for the employee? What is your response to the bottlenecks or gaps in the relevant legislation identified by the FSMA? What legislative changes might be required?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u2	Minister, in mid-February, we read in several newspapers that the stock exchange watchdog FSMA warns of a shortage of supplementary pensions through group insurance. It's not about the funds, it's about the insurance. The problem lies in the plans for a supplementary pension with a fixed performance formula. This is because the expected return is historically low, which means that insurers will not be able to pay out those benefits. A study carried out by the FSMA shows that two out of three pension plans examined in the sample cannot pay the promised amounts. I hope that you will agree with me that the worker should not suffer any disadvantage from this, because in the event of a shortage, the employer will in principle have to pay up. Of course, the condition is that the company still exists. Unfortunately, a lot of companies go bankrupt or stop their activities. The FSMA also states that insurers often inform companies about a deficit that is imminent. Minister, what happens if an insurer cannot pay the promised amount and the company, which normally has to pay the deficit, no longer exists? In what way do you intend to do that? How do you intend to address the more global problem, namely that most of the pension plans cannot pay the amount promised? Is there a need for a change of law? I realise, of course, that an amendment cannot be made through a government decision, but that it may have to be through Parliament. 217 pension plans were examined in the sample. More than 170 000 workers are involved. The problem may be much bigger. Do you have figures on the full number of pension plans in which there would be a shortage? How many employees would it be about in that case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u3	Minister, at the beginning of February, the FSMA published a report showing that two thirds of group insurance is unable to pay employees the promised supplementary pension in the long term. Assuralia says the system isn't used that much anymore. However, 70% of employees are still employed. They would lose on average 5,000 to 7,000 euros at their retirement age. According to the FMSA, the reason lies in the lack of legal obligations in group insurance to protect supplementary pensions. For short-term accumulated reserves, the insurer itself must test whether sufficient reserves will be built up. He must then inform the employer. Apparently, it is rare for the insurer to inform the employer. If the employer is informed, he must re-insure with another insurer and bring the risk back out. This is not enough because there is no legal obligation. In the long term, if employees wish to take up their supplementary pension at the retirement age, there are insufficient legal rules regarding the minimum financing for group insurance. As there is no legal protection, according to the FSMA, externalisation is at risk, thereby protecting employees' pension rights against the risk of bankruptcy of employers and taking action in the event of shortages. Indeed, an employer who builds up a supplementary pension also takes on insurance for that purpose. This should protect workers from the risk of bankruptcy of employers so that they can be sure of their supplementary pension. Minister, how many employees are involved? How much capital is involved? How big is the deficit? How many employees are at risk of receiving less supplementary pension rights than they were promised? Do you agree with the FSMA that the law should establish a more stringent control mechanism for group insurance, so that risks can be reduced both in the short term and in the long term? How do you think the recommendations of the FSMA should be registered and enforced?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u4	Minister, in our country, more than three million employees benefit from a supplementary pension plan – from the second pillar – through a pension fund or group insurance set up by their employer. With regard to pension funds, the FSMA – the Belgian financial market authority – can guarantee that they are properly managed and that their reserves will enable them to fulfil their obligations when the workers concerned retire. On the other hand, the FSMA is alarming the lack of funding for certain defined-benefit group insurances. Indeed, insurers offering this type of product only have to check themselves whether they are adequately financed and if not, they must warn the company(s) concerned. However, according to a survey conducted by the FSMA of a sample of 270 defined benefit group insurances, almost one fifth had insufficient funding in the short term – in the event of a change in employer – and about two thirds had insufficient funding in the long term, thus not guaranteeing payment of the benefits promised at the time of retirement of the members. Minister, this once again demonstrates that the only valid guarantee of a pension for workers is the first pillar. A first pillar that must be strengthened! Today what can be done for the 150,000 workers covered by these defined benefit group insurances who expected to receive a certain amount at retirement and who may not have received it? Is there not a risk that the state will have to replace the insurers again – as it did for banks during the banking crisis – to guarantee the amount owed to the workers concerned? Shouldn't the legal framework for group insurance be strengthened so that they are more closely monitored and, if necessary, ordered to take remedial action?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u5	Mr Minister, a study by the FSMA at the beginning of January 2020 shows that most group insurance institutions are unable to pay out the promised pension to employees on the due date. First of all, these disturbing conclusions show that it is very important to focus first of all on a strong legal pension, a strong first pillar. Your policy essentially strengthens the second pillar. In the light of this trend, are you convinced that this is still the best choice? Secondly, the law on supplementary pensions of 2003 provided for externalisation, which was to ensure that employees' pension funds were safe in the event of bankruptcy of the founder or employer. The FSMA argues that underfunding undermines externalisation. Do you agree that the objective of the law will be undermined in this way and what are your proposals to counter this? Thirdly, the FSMA also complains that there is a less detailed legal framework for group insurance than for institutions for occupational retirement provision. Do you share that analysis and do you think there are good reasons for that difference in regulation? Fourthly, what adjustments should be made to the law in the areas of reporting, control, under-financing measures and the level of facilities to be maintained to resolve the problems identified by the FSMA? I am referring in particular to the provision which imposes systematic control and reporting on the supervisor and brings the levels of protection of occupational pension institutions and group insurance to the same level. Finally, has the problem of deficits been discussed in the Supplementary Pensions Committee? If not, when will that happen? If so, what is the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u6	Minister, the FSMA report actually confirms what we have been thinking for a long time: we should not focus on extending the second pillar of pensions, but on strengthening the first pillar. After all, we can see that the second pillar involves a great deal of risk. The report states on several occasions that there are insufficient legal obligations to enforce the recommendations of the FSMA, which is already a very serious problem, and to opt for prudence in the financing methods and assumptions, and in any case to refrain from methods that seek only a minimum level of funding. The recommendations to do better are there, but in the absence of legal obligations, they are in the wind. This actually proves that the market is not sufficiently capable of providing a secure and stable pension. Even for the timely detection and remedying of funding shortages, we cannot rely on the self-regulatory nature of that market. Most of the questions have already been asked by colleagues, but have you already contacted Assuralia and the insurance companies in the sample? What is the response of the sector? What recommendations in the report do you take to heart? Will you also translate these recommendations into legal rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u7	No other member wishing to speak, I give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u8	Madam President, thank you and the various speakers because the subject is important. Like you, I have taken note of the analysis concerning the financing of the pension commitments of the type of fixed benefits through the FSMA's group insurance at the time of its publication. First of all, I would like to stress that the analysis relates only to the collective pension commitments of the type of fixed benefit in favour of employees managed by an insurance undertaking. Thus, the analysis does not aim at the same pension commitments managed by institutions for occupational retirement provision, previously referred to as pension funds. Moreover, these pension commitments in the form of defined benefits, managed by an insurance undertaking, cover only 10 % of the total members of a supplementary pension undertaking. Moreover, their number is expected to decrease over time, as most of these commitments are closed – in other words, there are no new affiliates, as evidenced by the sample used by the FSMA for its analysis. Employers have very rarely put in place such pension plans. Most of them opt for plans based on a definite contribution or even cash balance. The analysis of the FSMA indicates, in order to determine whether there is sufficient money in the insurance companies to finance the current reserves acquired, that 18% of the schemes of the type of fixed performance of the sample would not be sufficient funding. At the same time, it clarifies that in these cases the level of underfunding is relatively low, as the level of funding is only very exceptionally below 95%. While there is low underfunding for 18% of the fixed-performance schemes of the sample, there are also schemes whose funding levels are higher than regulatory requirements. Indeed, the analysis shows that the globalised assets of the sample group insurance, which amounts to almost EUR 8.5 billion, are higher than the liabilities, which are slightly higher than EUR 7 billion. I refer to page 9 of the results. The analysis thus indicates that the average level of funding is more than 117 %. For this I refer to page 94 of the report. More than a quarter of the schemes even have a level of funding higher than 120 %. On the basis of the rules, insurance undertakings must monitor the level of funding and, where appropriate, claim from employers the amounts necessary to clean up the under-financing. I therefore agree with the FSMA that insurers must regularly monitor the level of funding for acquired reserves and act directly when a situation of underfunding is identified. The analysis by the FSMA of whether there is sufficient money in the insurance companies to finance the promised retirement benefits in accordance with the pension commitment shows that the financing of a pension commitment based on the minimum level of funding provided for by the prudential regulation applicable to insurance undertakings, in particular on the basis of the MR/FR mortality tables and a technical interest rate of 6%, is currently insufficient taking into account current financial markets. However, the analysis shows that the financing of many schemes of the sample is already taking place at a higher level of funding. Almost half of these schemes already apply a conservative updating rate of about 4 % or less (see page 7 of the results), although this is not imposed by the legislation. However, I agree with the FSMA, which insists that employers and insurance companies opt for prudent financing assumptions and avoid using assumptions solely to reach the minimum level of funding. As far as possible legislative changes are concerned, all actors involved in the issue of supplementary pensions should be questioned. For this reason, I will forward the analysis of the FSMA to the Commission on Supplementary Pensions of Workers asking me to make their conclusions on this analysis. Where appropriate, they may then indicate whether the legislation applicable to undertakings and/or IORPs should be amended. As regards Mr De Vuyst's question, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Assuralia is represented in the committee, which will allow them to express their views. In conclusion, I would point out to those who wish to take advantage of this report to question the reliability of a second pillar that the analysis of the FSMA certainly does not allow such a conclusion to be drawn. As indicated by the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, chaired by Mr Vandenbroucke, in its report "Proposals of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040 for structural reform of pension systems": "At the societal level, the best strategy for financing pension systems combines distribution and capitalisation. Such a combination makes it possible to obtain a diversification of the risks, which are different. The Commission considers that there is a natural complementarity between distribution and capitalisation." For all these reasons, I continue to believe that the development of the second pillar should be encouraged and I still do not agree with Mr Goblet that the only valid pension guarantee for workers would be the first pillar. I invite you to look at what has happened in Europe in recent years: in many countries indexations have been abolished or legal pensions have been reduced. Fortunately, in Belgium, I never wanted to embark on such a course. When we say that the distribution system is the only guarantee, we have to see what is happening in other European countries. That's not the case! In Belgium, I have always wanted to strengthen the legal pension system, and it has never been so much increased as in recent years. I think there is complementarity between the distribution system and the funding system to achieve a higher replacement rate in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u9	Madam President, Minister, it is normal that there should be some concern among the victims. It goes without saying that there is a need to continue working on the statutory pension as a strong and reliable first pillar of pensions. However, it is also important to look at the supplementary pension in relation, for example, to the tax advantage of individual pension savings, the third pillar. It is also important to broaden and deepen the supplementary pension as a second pillar, as you mentioned. Why, for example, do we not encourage the social partners to use part of the margin available in the wage agreements for payments into supplementary pensions? After all, that makes everyone better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I think we share the same view. We are absolutely asking for a strong first pillar. That is the basis, and that must also be the largest component of a pension. We cannot ignore this and we must therefore continue to invest in strengthening the first pillar. CD&V has already argued in December for a second pillar that is no longer optional, as is the case today, where some are connected and some are not. We see that women in particular do not have a second pillar, which puts a lot of people in trouble. CD&V is convinced that a broadening of that second pillar is necessary by making it mandatory. That system exists today in Great Britain. A floor is also needed, with a contribution of at least 3% and even more for lower wages. Otherwise it will not be enough to supplement a pension, especially if we want to give people a pension of up to EUR 1,500. Having said that, it is important that we also address the problems raised by the survey, although it concerns a smaller group. It still affects a lot of people, and we need to find solutions to this. Now 170,000 employees are involved, which is not less, but it is probably a much larger group. If I am not mistaken, you did not give the figures I asked for. Do you have any? Could you get it to me if you need it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u11	We don't have numbers. We know the proportion. The FSMA refers to 18% under-financing in the 39 schemes where under-financing was involved. For thirty of them, the employer was informed and for 27 of these 30 plans, the employer discharged him. In any event, the answer was given by the employer. There's 3 out of 39 left. FSMA intends to request an inventory of the insurers to whom, if necessary, compliance with their obligations to reduce the contract will be recalled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u12	Madam President, Minister, it is particularly important that we give people the assurance that they will still have a pension. Many people, including many young people, are very insecure about that. For us, a strong first pillar and a strong legal pension can best give those guarantees. My fellow speaker has already indicated it. A strong first pillar offers the best guarantees of equality, eliminates most inequalities and protects women more. In the area of supplementary pensions, women are still less likely to build up their pensions. Nevertheless, I know that fewer and fewer employers are using such group insurance as a promise. Once a commitment on supplementary pensions has been made, people must be assured that, when they are 65 years old, they will receive at least what they have been promised and that there will be no risk of underfunding in this respect, especially if their employer goes bankrupt. In the event of bankruptcy, they should not be at risk of not being able to count at all on the bonus that will enable them to maintain their standard of living compared to the period they have worked. That is why I am very looking forward to the opinion of the Commission on Supplementary Pensions. Regardless of whether it is a small group or a very large group, it remains a fact that a promise has been made in that area. We must give that assurance. Parliament must accept its responsibility in this respect and consider what legal adjustments are needed so that the situation does not deteriorate and we can give more people security about their pensions. That is, after all, the most important thing. That was also a recommendation from the committee you quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u13	Minister, I assume you will not be surprised if I tell you that I do not share your view on the second pillar. I would like to make it very clear that as long as a worker does not benefit from an income corresponding to the pension ceiling, he has no interest in turning a wage increase into a supplementary contribution for a second pillar pension. It is through gross wages that he ensures his social protection. I would like to give you a very concrete example. About ten years ago, in the chemical sector, a pension fund was introduced by the ONP. The ONP has now decided that it is no longer doing so. It must have gone into insurance. The result, you know what it is? They go into insurance and now we don't even guarantee them the interest of 1.75%. For the next few years, the sector's security fund will have to fund it. It is not known how we will then cover the evolution of the interest of group insurance for workers who, at that time, have chosen to participate in a second pillar. I would like to tell you that the important thing today is to strengthen the first pillar of pensions, because it is the one that will make it possible to have the most justice. I'll give you another example with the cleaning sector. We put group insurance at 0.5%. Although people have worked in the sector for 30 years, they barely have enough to buy a package of peanuts when they earn their capital, while they have left much of their wages there and most of them are already part-time. Had their wages been increased, they would have improved their purchasing power on a regular basis. It is very clear that I do not share this vision of sharing contributions and funding. Capitalization had only one interest, it was for the workers who had a salary above the ceiling. They could supplement by this means to ensure adequate coverage of their pension income. Fortunately, we have the system where there is no ceiling for contributions, but there is one for the payment of allowances, because otherwise, we would not ensure the financing of social security. And when we divert social security from a whole series of supplementary and other pension contributions for those who are not yet on the ceiling, we weaken the financing of social security. This is not in line with my vision of society. I will remain a staunch defender of the first pension pillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As some previous speakers have said, a strong first pension pillar is incredibly important, because it offers the best guarantee of security for people. The important dimension of equality, which is understood by men and women, also plays a part in this. What you say about the second pillar shows that we must be particularly vigilant. The system turns out to be very complex and people are losing themselves in it. That's the only reason they're worried. Such reports, of course, do not contribute to reassurance. Mr Vanrobaeys has already indicated that promises have been made. We must be sure that these promises will be met. So solutions are needed. Minister, I was wondering if you would have any idea when the Supplementary Pensions Committee will discuss this further and when we can expect news from that committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u15	I do not know the timetable of the Committee on Supplementary Pensions. They are informed of this report and will, I think, work quickly on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u16	Madam President, we continue to stress the weakness of self-control. If there is no legal obligation for insurers to organise detection in time, to report and to clean up, then we still have a major problem. Something has become clear to me, Minister. When you talk about the important additional role for private insurers, this can only be to the extent that the statutory pension is inadequate. The government creates these gaps, where the private insurance market has the opportunity to fill them. That is exactly what policy has created in recent years. I think you'd rather have a minimum basic pension, supplemented by private insurance and pension savings. However, we know where this leads: the additional pillar means more uncertainty, more risks, and it also costs more. More than 40% of the costs are absorbed by administrative and management costs of banks and insurance institutions. It is also a pension of inequality. Half of the capital saved within the supplementary pension goes to only 5% of employees. The insurers seem to always find their way to politics. For example, they evolved from a fixed guarantee or a fixed return of 4 % to a variable interest rate of 1.75 % minimum. I cannot get rid of the impression that you have more affinity with private insurers than with employees' pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u17	Minister, I know that there will be a hearing on 25 March on the evaluation after six months of the IGO control procedure, but I received several reports from people who were unjustly suspended because of hospitalisation, because they are staying with their children at a different address or because they are on holiday with their children at the seaside for 14 days. Apparently, it's very difficult to submit the proper evidence to the Federal Pension Service. Not all supporting documents shall be accepted. If we do not have the third check and do not submit a residence permit within five days, a penalty will already be applied. Apparently, not all means of proof are accepted either. There is a lot of discussion about what means of proof is valid. This seems obvious for hospitalisation, but that is questioned. If you stay with the children for 14 days to look after the grandchildren, that is much more difficult to prove. For example, train tickets by date are not accepted. This gives them a penalty and less supplementary pension on their IGO. It also appears to take months to rectify the situation. Meanwhile, people have to bridge months with even less retirement. Some go to the OCMW. It's the OCMW's that signal me this. When they call the Federal Pension Service, they are told that there is a shortage of staff and a delay in the files of the IGAs, in order to rectify the IGAs that have been unjustly suspended. These are vulnerable senior citizens who already have to survive in a very precarious situation. That is why I wanted to ask a number of questions before the hearing, Minister. Is it true that there is a delay in the files of IGOs who were unjustly suspended? How long will it take to process the corrections? What proof do senior citizens have to submit to prove that they were staying in Belgium, but were, for example, with the daughter or babysitting the grandchildren? My last question was about the evaluation, but I think it is now clear when that evaluation will be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u18	Mr Minister, postmen are indeed used by the Pension Service to detect benefit fraud in relation to the IGO. For a few months they have been required to determine whether pensioners are resident in Belgium. Anyone who is not at home during a first and second check shall not be informed. Only at the third check will a message be left and the rightholder will have to report to the town hall within five days. This system creates extra stress and unrest among the elderly. Old people do not dare to do shopping or getting out anymore out of fear of losing their benefit. I have the following questions, Minister. Do you intend to modify the system or have you already taken steps to modify the current system? Isn't there a possibility to leave a message from the first check? How many complaints and/or appeals have you received in the meantime? In how many cases do we actually talk about social fraud? In the plenary session of 30 January, you supported the increase in unjustified suspensions. In the meantime, have you consulted on this and, if so, what are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u19	Minister, at the end of January the system of monitoring the Income Guarantee for Older People in various media was discussed. This system gives an extra allowance to the elderly with insufficient or no pension. Since mid-2019, postmen have been checking whether these elderly people fulfil the residence condition. They determine whether or not the person is at home and who is not at home three times must indeed report. In Belgium, some 110,000 pensioners receive IGO benefits. One third of this is 80-plus. A number of organizations have written a protest letter to denounce this form of control. Of course, this benefit, which is one of the highest in Europe, is particularly sensitive to welfare tourism and effective control is extremely important. It must help ensure that this form of assistance is sufficiently supported, which no one is questioning, and we do not. Last week we held hearings on this subject in the Chamber. Several colleagues then argued in different keys more or less to throw the child away with the bath water, to abolish the controls themselves, to put a moratorium on them. However, that is the last thing we need to do, because fraud control is extremely important, not only for the sake of justice but also to maintain sufficient support for this assistance. I also understand that there are questions about the legal basis for the deployment of postmen. If that is an effective problem, then we must not be blind to it. We need to be able to fix that. I also have a few questions in this connection. The postmen have been deployed since July 2019. For this purpose, the control of the residence of IGO beneficiaries in Belgium was carried out by periodically sending a residence certificate to some of the beneficiaries. Within 21 days, those entitled persons had to offer themselves at the town hall. Why has the policy been taken to use postmen for control? Did the practice show that the old system was not sufficient and that a new approach was needed? In what way do you want to ensure that older people who are badly on their feet or do not hear the postman ringing the bell have sufficient opportunities to participate in that control? Do you also notice that since 1 July 2019 more offences have been effectively detected? How many of these detected offences also effectively lead to an end to the IGO? Postmen should carry out checks on each beneficiary once a year. Is it possible to achieve that objective? What is the budgetary impact of this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u20	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been debating this new GRAPA monitoring procedure regularly for five months now, whether in our Social Affairs Committee, in the Committee on Mobility and Public Enterprises, or in plenary. The first topical and urgent debate took place on 15 October. Five good months we're on the subject. I believe that, on the merits, everyone has already had the opportunity to speak and to give his or her point of view. I would like to point out that from the outset we were very critical of this new procedure, which we find inadequate both from the point of view of the beneficiaries, in their entirety, and from the point of view of the social role of the factors. We also find it disproportionate. But we will have the opportunity to return to this disproportionate nature. It is true that on several occasions I compared it a little to this mountain of controls, with the data mining and data matching of the citizens' water and electricity bills, to reach the social beneficiaries. The 3 March hearings were enlightening on some points. I believe that they give grain to be ground to the debate that we will soon have on the evaluation. These hearings on March 3 also raise some additional questions and answers from you, Minister. Finally, we met on March 25 for the evaluation report. I think that all this helps to refine our debate. I have a first set of questions a little bit more statistical, if you don't mind. I think they will contribute to an understanding of the problem as a whole. For example, on the basis of the total number of beneficiaries, I assume that 2019 would be the full reference year, if we have figures for 2019 as a whole. I would have liked to have a percentage distribution of beneficiaries based on their professional background. These people who benefit from GRAPA, either totally or with supplements, how many years of career do they have in Belgium? What is the percentage of beneficiaries who have a professional background in Belgium under 10 years of age, between 10 and 20 years of age, between 20 and 30 years of age, or over 30 years of age? That was the question I wanted to ask in relation to that. I also wish, in terms of gender, that I had an indication of the distribution between men and women. And I did not ask in the original question, but if you have the average amount for men and the average amount for women, either today or later in a written question, that is something that is also interesting to see in this regard. I did not pose either, but I refined it afterwards, it would be interesting to have the distribution between the Belgians and the non-Belgians. Do you have a percentage to give us today? And possibly also depending on the country of origin, European Union and non-European Union. That would give us an idea. In terms of age, too, comes the question of people aged 80 and over. What is the percentage of people who benefit from GRAPA in this age group? And how many hundred? Control shall also be applied to them, in the same manner. Previously, control had been removed for persons aged 80 and over. Why did you restore him? How do you justify controlling these people? We received the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, which our group had asked through the Chair of the Commission. Why didn't you ask him yourself? I am not convinced that we have the same reading of this opinion, which tells us that this bpost delegation was not provided for by law. Should it be changed? Secondly, it would be up to the Federal Pension Service to ensure control; GRAPA beneficiaries should have had access to the bpost contract and the factors are not entitled to require citizens' identity cards for this type of control. I quote the conclusions: "The carrying out of the steps necessary for the control of residence by persons other than delegated officials of the SFP or social inspectors raises a question since, first, the text which assigned the competence in question to the SFP does not explicitly provide that bpost can contribute to the exercise of that competence" – implicit authorisations which cannot intervene when the delegation is liable to infringe fundamental rights – "secondly, the delegate of such delegation of competence must remain subject to the hierarchical control of the delegate; thirdly, the act which operates the delegation must be made effective against the third party by carrying out publicity measures the extent of which depends on the number of persons concerned. Therefore, on the basis of the information available to it, the authority does not perceive what legal basis may enable bpost to request from the beneficiary of GRAPA his identity card in the context of the aforementioned effective residence control." We understand that if we don't see what the legal basis for this contract is, it is not legal. Minister, what do you intend to do to make this contract known to the beneficiaries? With regard to the issue of unjustified sanctions, we will certainly come back to that in the course of the assessment. This is an essential element and I note from the hearings that three out of four sanctions prove to be unjustified or incorrect. Finally, the question of the five days after the third passage is a highly contested and questionable one. Prohibition is given to the factor to file a notice of passage from the first passage. If this opinion were allowed, it would give a period of 26 days (21 plus 5), which would still be of a different nature. We will return to these details in our future discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u21	We have tabled three questions, which have now become more or less obsolete in the light of the hearing we have had. I've done my best to update them. One question I still wanted to talk about is the action. On Monday 17 February, 44 organisations, including poverty organisations and trade unions, posted for your cabinet. They oppose the reforms of controls in older people with IGO benefits since July 2019. In the meantime, you are aware of the justified criticisms. The controls stigmatise vulnerable elderly people and create unnecessary stress. They're too strict and sometimes absurd. Think, for example, of residents of border municipalities. In addition, they are not tailored to people who are poor on their feet, nor are they consistent with the valued social role of the postmen. Moreover, the Data Protection Authority has already spoken out against the residence control via bpost. Apparently, there is no legal basis for allowing Bpost to require the IGO holder to submit his or her identity card in the context of the verification of actual residence. I was wondering what you would have discussed with the activists if you had been present. Were you willing to listen to their demands and accept them? I sincerely wonder why you were not there, since you had announced in advance that you would be present to receive them. What was more important at the time? If you want to examine the whereabouts of more than 100,000 pensioners, we can also ask here in Parliament where you were at that time. Since the start of the new controls, almost 2,000 people have lost their IGO benefit. In the meantime, we already know more, because the director of the Federal Pension Service gave us the figures at the hearing. The provisional figures indicate that 0.95% of pensioners have been effectively suspended. In absolute figures this means 538 suspensions and about 1,450 not suspended. These figures will undoubtedly increase. Now that the legal basis of the checks is heavily questioned, we would like to know from you how you will deal with or respond to any legal action taken by the suspended right holders. There's something else. In the meantime, I have heard that many people without an address for service, i.e. without a reference address, often homeless people, have also been affected. I don't suppose that's what this is supposed to be. If it is intended to hit those people, it seems rather cynical to me to take away vulnerable old homeless people's benefits. I wonder what you will do for these people. I also have a question about the legal advice that has been requested in the introduction of these enhanced IGO controls. It is striking that there are a lot of legal objections. It is, of course, also about restricting the freedom of movement of our older fellows and the right to privacy, which I believe has been violated. The latter has also been confirmed by the Data Protection Authority. It is also about the unequal treatment between IGO beneficiaries and other groups of social insurers. This unequal treatment is unacceptable, because this discrimination is inflamed and I do not understand why IGO pensioners should be treated differently. At the hearing on this matter, the board of the Federal Pension Service told us that the entire legal procedure was validated by an external law firm. The missing link was clearly an opinion of the Council of State. It is the institution of excellence to test the way in which the government deals with its citizens in the light of their fundamental rights. My questions are as follows. Why did the Federal Pension Service choose an opinion from an external law firm? How much did this external legal advice cost? Why did you, as the Minister responsible, not call in the Council of State? Why did the Royal Decree of 30 March 2018 only enter into force more than a year later, namely in July 2019? That was even on the basis of another royal decree of March 13, 2019. What considerations have contributed to avoiding a procedure at the Council of State in this way? Finally, we receive many disturbing testimonies from people affected by those controls. They are doing us, and hopefully you too, thinking about the mistakes in the new control system. For example, we received a letter from an East Flemish woman of just over 70 years, entitled to an IGO as a assisting wife. She worked in her husband's case and built up a very limited pension, which makes it necessary for IGO to make ends meet. She writes that the government stimulates flexi-jobs and does a flexi-job two to three days a week, from 7:00 to 12:00 or 13:00. As a result, she has a penny for a bonus, but is not home for the postman. This clearly shows how unfair it is that pensioners who have to work because their pension is insufficient are also subject to residence checks. How many IGO beneficiaries currently work in flexi jobs? Are you prepared to exempt these people from checks, since their presence has been established beyond doubt as they are doing a flexi job here in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u22	Mr Minister, I was in the Committee on the Economy, I imagine that many questions have already been asked. I will try to focus on certain specific elements. As you know, we had hearings last Tuesday in the Social Affairs Committee. We'll go back and fight with you on March 25th, I think. This case is important and has follow-up. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. Following the hearings last Tuesday, I would like to ask you the following questions. Could you provide an account of the number of complaints received by GRAPA beneficiaries, whether it is against the SFP or bpost? There was also a lot of talk about the waiting time that the factor must apply when he or she spends with a citizen. Can you confirm that the factors must wait 69 seconds, or more, in order to wait for a response during a check performed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u23	I think it's 80 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u24	Thank you. Perhaps the minister will be able to clarify that? It is especially important to know whether there is a timing in front of every door, because in relation to the population targeted here, that is to say, people who are retired in precarious situations, this can be a problem. My third question concerns 'unjustified' sanctions. Is the administration taking initiatives to verify whether or not the sanction is justified, or is it the person who must defend himself or herself and produce the documents? Is it possible that sanctions recorded as 'justified' are imposed on persons who resided well in Belgium during the control period, but who did not react within five days of the last passing of the factor, were considered unjustified and therefore punished, and therefore did not reverse the presumption because of the phenomenon or not the recourse to the law, which is very common among the precarious? Fourthly, I take a particular case to illustrate my point. A person who, while a check was under way, would have resided at his daughter's house for ten days to look after a sick grandchild, but who herself would not have been ill and would therefore not be able to produce a medical document attesting to his presence in Belgium, could he automatically reverse the presumption of presence abroad by declaring on honour that he was residing with his daughter, if he was unable to produce an official document attesting him? These are really concrete cases. Finally – and this is a request that I have made to you on many occasions, Minister, and to your colleague De Backer – can we put in place a mechanism, with the secretariat of this committee, so that we can access the contracts between bpost and SFP? Last week, we played guesses. The Director of the SFP told us that 33 per cent of contracts were required. Let us ensure that the information is passed on to Members! I can understand that it has a sensitive character, given its commercial nature. So we could organize a system "For your eyes only", as was the case on several occasions. It has already happened to me to consult a document in the offices of Parliament, without gsm or pencil. At least this would provide us with information once and for all, making a commitment not to disclose it outside. It's important to our work. I therefore ask you whether you agree that such a mechanism should be put in place for the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u25	Minister, last week we indeed had a very interesting hearing on the famous IGO controls, following a proposal for a resolution from Ecolo-Green, co-signed by sp.a. A number of very interesting elements have been put forward, and I would like to hear your views on a number of issues and to verify them. My first question concerns the homeless elderly. They can only claim income guarantee benefits if they have a reference address with an OCMW. The representatives of the Ligue des Droits Humains, which we heard last week, drew our attention to the problems posed by the new control procedure to that group of IGO beneficiaries. They obviously do not have an address where the mailman can come by to verify whether or not they are staying there. Moreover, for that group of people, the five-day period after the third attempt to check by the postman, which cannot therefore take place in those cases, is far too short to go to the town hall in good time with the proof of residence. Homeless elderly people will occasionally pick up their mail from the OCMW, but have no home. They just go to the OCMW one day and notice that they received a letter, when it is actually seven days too late and so they are already in trouble. I find it difficult to imagine that this particular group was not taken into account in the development and entry into force of the new control procedure, although I fear I have to conclude from the information provided by the Ligue des Droits Humains. Minister, how many IGO beneficiaries have a reference address? Do you have any figures on the number of persons checked with a reference address since the introduction of the new control procedure? Can you tell me the number of suspensions and justified suspensions in that particular group? Will specific attention be paid to the problem of those IGA beneficiaries in the context of the evaluation of the new control procedure, which we can expect later this month? Which slopes do you see to solve the specific problem? My next question is mainly about the figures. Mrs Sarah Scaillet, administrator-general of the Federal Pension Service, stated that the checks showed that only 1% of the cases involved fraud and therefore justified suspensions. Mr Jean Hermesse of the Intermutualist College stated that until November more than 50,000 people were checked, with 538 justified suspensions. These absolute figures are in line with the 1% quoted by Mrs Scaillet. In your reply to my oral question, you indicated that 50,223 checks were carried out during the period from July to November. However, you were not yet able to report the number of suspensions and justified suspensions, because the treatment periods were still running. Can you now confirm the figures of Mrs Scaillet and Mr Hermesse? I would have liked to have received the total number of files checked per month since the introduction of the new control system, the number of unjustified suspensions and the number of justified suspensions. In how many people could the postman determine the presence after once, in how many people after twice and after three times? How many people couldn't do that after the third attempt? According to Mrs Scaillet, there were no grounds for any legislative amendment or amendment to a Royal Decree following the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. Do you share that opinion? Finally, many of us already asked at the hearing why the postman cannot leave a letter after the first visit with the possibility for the person to go to the town hall for a residence permit. Mrs Scaillet replied that there would then be too many residence permits at the Federal Pension Service, which could not be processed because they do not have the capacity to process them. I think that's an absurd situation. Those involved want to show that they're here. Now it is almost as if the postman sneaks the doorbell, finds that no one is home and then comes a second and a third time. I think that's Kafkaian. Sometimes it reminds me a bit of our absurd Belgium. Why isn't that possible? This seems to be due to the shortage of staff, a problem which Mrs Vanrobaeys also raised. It's absurd that people who want to prove that they're at home can't do that. I don't really have any words for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u26	Minister, we have already discussed this matter on a number of occasions. Indeed, there are many doubts about the new procedure introduced to check whether recipients of an income guarantee for older people are in the country. For the sake of clarity, I have no problem, like many in the Chamber, that we should check the conditions of residence. It is a benefit, so control is allowed. But together with the privacy committee, we only have a lot of questions about how that happens. Even though there were hearings last week, I remain left with a number of questions, including figures. Minister, what are the costs and revenues of the new control procedure? The administrator-general of the Pension Service stated last week that the control procedure is still effective, but Mr Hermes also made a calculation and we do not know whether it is correct or not. Nor can I find out in any other way than by extrapolation. That is why I think it would be good if we had a view, possibly in a private meeting, at that cost. I would also like to know how many elderly people opened the door on the first, second or third visit respectively, and how many people received a letter on the bus. Global figures confirm that the vast majority, 75 % to 80 %, are present at home on a first visit. However, we do not have a breakdown per visit. I would also like to know how many people, after receiving a letter, were able to prove their stay in the city hall in good time. How many people got suspended? What is the percentage of the number of suspensions in relation to the number of people checked? How many suspensions were challenged? Figures we received last week taught us that the number of suspensions in substance is less than 1%. About 106,000 elderly people get an IGO. About half of them are controlled. This large number of checks shows that less than 1% fraud. However, these controls have the effect of frightening 100 percent of the elderly. I absolutely agree that fraudsters should be dealt with, but I do not think that we should scare all the people. We believe that this is very important. How many checks, still under the old procedure, took place in 2016, 2017 and 2018? How many suspensions were there during that period, how many suspensions were challenged and how many suspensions were justified? I want to be able to compare and see if the current procedure is so much better. In cases of force majeure it is possible to stay abroad for more than 29 days, but an application must be submitted to the Pension Service. I asked a question about this in a previous sitting, but it remained unanswered. I was surprised that the administrator-general stated that these were only a few cases. Perhaps the procedure is not known and many people do not know that they can apply for the exception. If an exception is needed, for example in the case of a death case, which means that one suddenly has to stay longer abroad, then one has to know how to apply for it. Can you give me some figures on the anomalies? How many were requested from 2016 until now? How many of these were actually allowed? Was that 100 % or 80 %? Why were they allowed or not allowed? I referred to the opinion of the privacy committee, which had a lot of legal objections to the current procedure. She said, among other things, that a postman should not be allowed to ask for an identity card, even if it is merely to check who the person concerned is. We heard from the pension service that a response was being prepared and that the answer was delivered to the privacy committee. However, we have not been able to take note of it ourselves. We would like that answer to the fundamental questions of the privacy committee. You could at least indicate what is in that answer. In the meantime, have legal proceedings been initiated against the new procedure? If that's the case, how many people are we talking about? During the previous procedure, those who had been abroad had to register at the town hall on their return. A large number of people who assist older people in the field of health insurance, among others, say that they are still doing so today, including with the new procedure. Is that useful and necessary? I believe that this is no longer the case, because another procedure is now in place. If one is abroad during a specified period, then there may be a check later. Of course, it will not be checked if, for example, it was indicated that the person concerned was in Spain for three weeks, so that he or she can be checked on his or her return from Spain. Surely it is not necessary for the person concerned to register immediately after those three weeks? In short, there is a great deal of concern and there are still many questions for social services. How do you intend to address this concern? I myself have a number of concrete proposals for this. First of all, information needs to be tailored. I believe that in this respect the noses are pointing in the same direction. Secondly, there must be an appropriate check. I have already insisted on leaving a note after the first check. It is not a problem, then, if the services cannot deal with all this, because my proposal is simply that the municipal administration can automatically introduce into the system for the attention of the pension service that the person concerned has been seen and is therefore in the country. Then there is no need for a physical certificate that has to be processed. Thirdly, another proposal is that we extend the period from 5 days to 28 days. From the first visit of the postman you have 28 days. In fact, it is legal that 28 days abroad should be allowed. Finally, I would urge that adequate publicity be given to the fact that an exception can be applied for and that the exception extends to sick people who are ill and in need of care should no longer be checked by a cross-reference of data, so there is already a track of thought and 80-plussers, which were not checked in the past either. I will conclude with these constructive proposals, because I really want a solution to be found.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u27	Madam President, I am essentially this case for the gender dimension, since this GRAPA system mainly affects women – 68% according to what the hearings revealed to us last week. Minister, my questions are not very long. Has a gender mainstreaming been achieved before introducing the new control measures? More broadly, could gender mainstreaming be introduced on pension systems in Belgium? Finally, given the liberticide and disproportionate nature of the control measures that were introduced and denounced by the actors on the ground last week during the hearings, do you have any avenues to correct the impact of these various measures, in particular on women, and starting from their reality?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little puzzled. All the questions asked to me today relate to the evaluation procedure. This debate still seems surreal to me. I don't know who talked to Belgian surrealism earlier, but we're really in surrealism here. The same debate is being held twice, except that at the time of the evaluation procedure, we will have a little more precision in relation to any adjustments to the procedure. I think he's a little curious... impatience is a notion that exists in human psychology and I can understand it. First of all, it should be recalled that GRAPA is not a pension but a social benefit. I repeat this every time, because it sometimes seems to be forgotten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u29	We know that!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u30	But no, not necessarily! Look, you keep repeating yourself, let me repeat myself from time to time! I'll take it back. GRAPA is not a pension but a social benefit from which a person aged 65 or over, who has never worked in Belgium and has therefore never contributed, can benefit. Unlike pension recipients who can move freely abroad, GRAPA beneficiaries must reside in Belgium. There's nothing different about that. That was already the case. Otherwise, the regime would be open to any foreign person who, after applying for and obtaining GRAPA, could return to his country without any time limit. The new control procedure therefore does not in any way alter the obligation to reside in Belgian territory, which is imposed on all recipients of social assistance. Mr De Vuyst, on 17 February my chief of the cabinet received a delegation from the organisations which organised the events under the new control procedure for the conditions of residence of the IGA beneficiaries. Ms Sarah Scaillet, the administrator-general of the Federal Pension Service, also took part in that meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u31	On that occasion, she recalled the reasons why the SFP had decided to introduce a new monitoring procedure since 1 July last. The SFP took the initiative and the government (MR, Open Vld, N-VA, CD&V) approved it. In particular, it argued that the old procedure required GRAPA beneficiaries to travel systematically to the municipality to complete a residence certificate and that it often resulted in unjustified suspensions. Some want us to go back to unwarranted procedures. For my part, I think, on the contrary, that we must try to eradicate them. I would also point out that this may be an explanation for which the control which did not concern the 80 years or older, before, has not been included in the new procedure. For before, since everyone had to come to the commune – that was the justification – it had been admitted that for the 80 years and over, a check forcing them to move would not be imposed on them since many of them already had difficulty moving. From the moment that, in the new procedure, the vast majority – I will come back with the figures later – must no longer appear in the commune, the reason for which control had been abolished beyond the age of 80 no longer exists. The general administrator also stated that, contrary to what the Human Rights League is making, the factors do not act as controllers because control is the sole responsibility of the SFP, which does not delegate its powers to bpost. The role of the factor here is similar to that which it fulfils when issuing a recommended fold. During her hearing before this committee on 3 March, the general administrator reaffirmed these elements. As I have already indicated, I support the new procedure put in place by the SFP as it aims to be more effective in combating fraud. When one refers to the figure of 1% fraud, that is the case in a control system. No one knows how much the percentage of fraud in an uncontrolled system would amount to. The procedure aims to be more effective against fraud and less burdensome for GRAPA beneficiaries. I know that some would like to systematically send everyone to the commune to ask for a paper. I find it a shame and an astounding thing. To force people to go to the commune to apply for a residence certificate is a mistake. The first figures show that 78% of the beneficiaries checked did not have to go to the municipality under the new procedure. That's four out of five people who didn't have to go to the commune! So we did them a favor. The certificate of residence was given to them by the factor in one of the three passages. If the GRAPA beneficiary does not return the residence certificate within five working days – meaning seven calendar days – after the certificate has been lodged in the mailbox, the Federal Pension Service will notify the person concerned of the suspension of its GRAPA by inviting the person concerned to submit the necessary proof of his presence in Belgian territory by explaining to the person concerned the type of evidence accepted by the SFP. Suspensions registered as justified are suspensions for which the necessary evidence has not been provided by the person concerned. With regard to the case of the person who had resided with his daughter to care for a sick grandchild, referred to by Mr. Vanden Burre, the general rules were applicable. Therefore, in the absence of prior notification to the SFP, this person will be invited to produce evidence of his presence on Belgian territory. Evidence of a presence includes, for example, asking for a medical certificate for her grandchild, indicating that she had to take care of the child during her illness. This procedure exists in many other cases of care of sick children. With regard to the issues related to GRAPA beneficiaries who are hospitalized, I can tell you that the SFP contacted all hospitals in July 2019 to inform them about the modalities of the new screening procedure and to make them aware of the need to prevent SFP in order to avoid a suspension of GRAPA. If the beneficiary forgets to inform the SFP of his stay in a hospital or in a revalidation centre, he may then, as was already the case before the implementation of the new procedure, provide evidence such as invoices, mutual certificates or the doctor. In case of loss of documents, the SFP also accepts copies or duplicates. This proof as well as residence certificates can be sent by mail or e-mail. In the event of a dispute over the suspension of GRAPA, the beneficiary may apply to the SFP or the Pension Ombudsman. He also has the opportunity to appeal the decision of the SFP to the competent court and, if necessary, the SFP will defend his decision there. To answer questions about the number of complaints and appeals, I would like to inform you that 42 complaints were filed with the SFP. The Pension Ombudsman received eight complaints, two of which were also lodged with the SFP. Six cases – out of tens of thousands of checks – are being processed in court. These appeals mainly concern the late dismissal of the residence certificate – which has nothing to do with the factor's visit – as well as the delay of 29 days abroad – which has nothing to do with the new procedure. As far as the time limit for the GRAPA beneficiary is concerned, I refer you to the reply given by the bpost representative at his hearing on 3 March. The average time available to a factor is 80 seconds, as for the delivery of a recommended fold. This period has been set by bpost and not by SFP. The SFP took the initiative to produce and broadcast a video on the monitoring procedure, without informing me beforehand. Although I understand the SFP's objective of giving wider information about the new procedure, I consider that in the context of this initiative to broadcast such a video on the Internet is not particularly happy because the quality of communication is highly questionable. In response to Mr Anseeeuw's question regarding the objective of checking each IGO beneficiary once a year, I can inform you that according to the information provided by the Federal Pension Service, around 75,000 beneficiaries out of a total of around 106,000 were audited between August 2019 and February 2020. On the basis of these figures, the objective of checking each beneficiary once a year should be met. In 78% of the checks carried out between August 2019 and February 2020, the mandatory proof could be handed over personally to the IGO beneficiary. A percentage of personal delivery of 92 % was reached in February 2020. When reporting, bpost only indicates that the certificate could be handed over personally to the IGO beneficiary. The Federal Pension Service does not therefore have figures on the number of certificates handed over in the first, second and third attempts. With regard to questions relating to the number of justified suspensions or not, I should like to inform you that, on the basis of the figures transmitted to me by the SFP and communicated by the general administrator during his hearing before this committee, 43,011 checks were carried out between August 2019 and October of the same year. These inspections resulted in a suspension of GRAPA in 961 cases, which proved to be justified in only 409 cases. The SFP does not have statistics on the disputed suspensions. I've already told you about the complaints that have been made. Mrs Lanjri, as regards your question on the figures for the old procedure for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, I would refer you to the answer to the written question No. 8 by Ms Willaert of 4 November 2019. As regards your question on the costs of the new procedure, I refer you to the figures relating to the relationship between the amount of the suspensions and the costs of the new procedure, as communicated by Mrs Scaillet, at her hearing. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the evaluation of the new procedure is still under way. More figures will therefore be available and communicated on March 25, when the evaluation is completed. This evaluation, which was conducted by the SFP and its Management Committee, is a quantitative and qualitative evaluation, the results of which will be presented at the Management Committee meeting on March 23rd. For this assessment, the working group will take into account all complaints, comments and questions received, as well as objective figures in relation to the first six monitoring cycles. The evaluation will also address the overall cost of this procedure, including the impact of suspensions. It will not cover the possible cost of assistance provided by CPAS and other organisations in the context of suspensions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the procedure for challenging the suspension of GRAPA has not changed from what was used in the past, before the new procedure. The possible assistance provided by CPAS and other organisations has therefore not changed either. In response to Ms Vanrobaeys' question regarding the time limit for the handling of the files in the event of a dispute over the suspension of the IGO, the FPD indicated that a stock of files had been temporarily built up in mid-October 2019 due to the number of files and technical problems to be dealt with. These problems could in the meantime be solved. At the beginning of November 2019, the FPD staff managed to completely eliminate the stock of files. Since then, there has been no stock of files. All disputes are dealt with day after day. In the event of a dispute, the FPD shall clearly indicate to the person concerned what evidence may be submitted. Following verification of the supporting documents received, the FPD shall immediately proceed with the payment of the arrears and shall resume the monthly payment of the IGO. The overall time limit for processing these files depends to a large extent on the time when sufficient evidence is provided by the person concerned. In reply to Mrs Lanjri's question concerning the obligation to register at the town hall after a stay abroad of more than 29 days, I can inform you that the amended Article 42 of the Royal Decree of 23 May 2001 now provides that the IGO beneficiary must inform the FPD of his return to Belgium after a stay abroad of more than 29 days. The FPD will then immediately initiate a verification procedure. As regards all the questions relating to the possible adaptation of the procedure and the need for a new communication campaign, I would like to await the results of the objective evaluation, as carried out by the social partners who sit on the Management Committee of the SFP. I will discuss with the SFP any changes to the new procedure, if any, based on the results of this evaluation. With regard to the opinion of 17 January 2020 issued by the Data Protection Authority (PDA), it is not correct to claim that it would indicate that the new procedure would be illegal or contrary to respect for privacy. However, the opinion invited the SFP and bpost to analyse the processing of personal data carried out in the context of the residence control under the existing rules. This analysis was carried out. As the general administrator has indicated, it is clear that the SFP remains the supervisory body and that this competence has not been delegated to bpost, which acts as a subcontractor. In order to be able to hand over the residence certificate to the right person, the factor must be able to verify the identity of the person in question. However, there is no question of requisitioning the identity card or registering the data on the identity card. No sanction is linked to the refusal to show his identity card. This analysis has been made available to you. As a result, no regulatory changes are required to respond to the ODA opinion. In reply to Mrs Schlitz's question about gender mainstreaming, I can tell you that a specific analysis was not carried out by the SFP before the new procedure was put in place, since it is only a change in the control procedure and not the conditions for awarding or calculating GRAPA or even the conditions for payment. This procedure, like the previous procedure, treats all GRAPA beneficiaries in the same way, regardless of their gender, while respecting the constitutional principle of equal treatment. With regard to your questions on the amount of women's pensions, I refer you to the answer to Mr. From Vuyst on the same subject. In response to Mr. Vanden Burre's question about the contract between the SFP and bpost, I can tell you that the SFP is opposed to consulting the contract because of the confidentiality of the commercial agreements. However, a draft has already been sent to inform Parliament of the content of this Convention. Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mrs Willaert, as regards the reference address, the IGO regulation stipulates that the IGO beneficiary must have his main place of residence in Belgium at the time the IGO is granted. The main residence is defined in the Law of 19 July 1991 on Population Records, ID cards, alien cards and residence documents. In the IGA regulation, a reference address at an OCMW is accepted as a permanent and effective residence in Belgium, following the application of Article 20 (3) of the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 on population registers and the alien register, where it is stipulated that the persons registered at the address of the OCMW must submit themselves to the OCMW at least once a trimester. A homeless person who has a reference address at an OCMW will thus retain his IGO as long as this reference address is maintained. The IGO beneficiary may have a reference address with a private individual. Since the FPD is not aware of this, the control procedure is carried out in the normal way. The FPD indicates that when the service is informed of this situation, it will contact the competent OMCW in order for the beneficiary to have a reference address at the OCMW. At present, the data relating to the reference addresses are not yet available via the KSZ. As a result, the FPD does not currently have figures on the reference addresses. However, the provision by the KSZ of this data is foreseen for 2020. To answer Mr Delizée's questions, I can tell you that according to the information given to me by the SFP, the number of beneficiaries of GRAPA is 106,489: 36,677 men and 69,812 women. As regards the professional background in Belgium, i.e. the number of career years taken into account for the possible retirement pension, it therefore includes both actual and similar periods of work. With regard to this professional background for GRAPA beneficiaries, the SFP states that for those receiving a retirement pension, 28.38 % of beneficiaries have no professional background in Belgium; 12.74 % have a professional background in Belgium between 1 and 9 years; 12.57 % have a professional background in Belgium between 10 and 19 years; 14.13 % have a professional background in Belgium between 20 and 29 years; and 32.18 % have a professional background in Belgium over 30 years. I'll give you the numbers. For GRAPA beneficiaries who receive a survivor's pension, the SFP states that for 91.49% of the beneficiaries, the number of career years taken into account for the survivor's pension is zero. For 1.5%, the number of years of Belgian career taken into account for the survivor's pension is between 1 and 9 years. For 1.62%, the number of years of Belgian career taken into account for the survivor's pension is between 10 and 19 years. For 2.03%, the number of years of Belgian career taken into account for the survivor's pension is between 20 and 29 years and for 3.34%, the number of years of Belgian career taken into account for the survivor's pension is more than 30 years. As far as the gender distribution is concerned, I will give you the figures. For the total, it is two thirds – a third. It's 36,000 men and about 69,000 women. For beneficiaries over 80 years of age, this is 29.46 per cent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u32	Don't you have the centennial figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u33	No, I'm sorry, but I can provide them to you. I do not have the gender distribution for the amount. I need to find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u34	Minister, I have added the question of the Belgians and not Belges. Perhaps you can provide this to us by March 25th?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u35	J'en prends note. I turn to the legal opinions on the new GRAPA control procedure. In reply to a question from Mr De Vuyst, I would point out that the FPD has sought the advice of an external law firm to have the internal legal service's analysis of the opinion of the Data Protection Authority verified in order to avoid any suspicion of bias, since it is the FPD that has taken the initiative to introduce the new control procedure. The law firm confirmed the internal analysis. Following the validation of that internal analysis, the FPD sent a response to the GBA based on the analysis. The cost of external agency verification was EUR 4.819.85. Allow me to draw your attention to your question on the Council of State that the opinion of the Council of State was indeed requested for the Royal Decree of 30 March 2018 amending the Royal Decree of 23 May 2001 establishing a general regulation on the guarantee of income for the elderly and the Royal Decree of 13 August 2011 on the payment of benefits paid by the National Pensions Service, which is opinion 62.611/11 of the Council of State of 22 December 2017, as well as for the Royal Decree setting the date of its entry into force. The Royal Decree of 10 March 2019 indeed fixed the date of entry into force of the Royal Decree of 30 March 2018 on 1 July 2019, as the subcontractor in charge of handing over the residence permit had to be selected through a public tender. Since the Royal Decree of 30 March 2018 completely replaced the old control procedure, that decision could not enter into force before the award of the public tender, if not any form of control would have been impossible between the date of entry into force of the Royal Decree of 30 March and the award of the public tender. As regards flexi-jobs, on the basis of the information transmitted to me by the FPD, the number of IGO beneficiaries exercising a flexi-job was 272 in September 2019. The beneficiaries thus have a flexi job of 0.27%. It is impossible to exclude those IGO beneficiaries from checking compliance with the conditions of residence. Indeed, it should be taken into account that a certain period of time expires before the FPD is informed that the IGO beneficiary is performing a flexi job. The FPD depends on the data available through the DmfA for that information. The DmfA is a quarterly report. The last reporting date shall be the last day of the month following the previous trimester. The information provided is only available to the FPD a month later. Allow me to repeat that the three passages of the postman take place at different times and days in order to avoid the maximum absence of the person concerned during the three passages because he works at fixed times or because of a fixed appointment. Even if the IGO beneficiary was absent during the three passages of the postman, he then has five working days to present himself to the municipality. If the person concerned has not been able to go to the municipality within the prescribed time limit, he will be able to use the evidence relating to his flexi job to prove his presence on the Belgian territory. The FPD will then proceed to immediate regularization.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u36	Thank you, Minister. Since the Vice-Presidents are absent, I will ask Mrs Willaerts to take the Chair. We will not be able to go beyond the current debate, since we will have to conclude our work at 1 p.m. I am sorry for the colleagues who came to ask the other questions. In any case, they can turn them into written questions. We'll reschedule a meeting as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u37	Madam President, I propose that the remaining questions be converted into written questions, with a guarantee that we will have the answer today. We can now conclude this debate on IGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u38	(...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u39	If you have the answers, you can give them without translation, or you can send them to us. The official translation can still be done afterwards. I don't have a problem with that. We do speak a little Dutch and French. The formal procedure may take longer, but we already have it in our mailbox in the language in which it is now prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u40	Colleagues, I think that this is also possible for the combined questions, if every questioner agrees, of course. After all, there are still a number of combined questions. Is that how we can decide? [[Assent]] Okay, then we'll go to the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u41	Minister, you have given a lot of answers. In my view, the basic points of view are now quite clear. We have co-signed the resolution to end this control procedure, because we believe that this control procedure is illegal, given the opinion of the privacy committee. The figures show that 409 justified suspensions took place on a total of 75,000 controlled persons. We believe that a great deal of resources is being devoted to ultimately less than 1% of justified suspensions. During the hearings, Mr Hermesse put forward a number of slopes allowing for more human control. There may certainly be some form of control for us, but in the current system the 106,000 seniors receiving an IGO are terrified. They're home with fear. Recently, I met some older people who are afraid to go shopping, because they are afraid to miss the postman, possibly losing their IGO. We therefore believe that this control measure is far too far-reaching and excessive in relation to the use of resources in relation to revenue. We will, of course, discuss this further at the hearing. In response to my additional questions on evidence, I have heard that all means of proof are good. I will pass that on to those who have reported problems to me. It was unclear whether evidence would be accepted by mail or post and in some cases certain evidence was not accepted. Perhaps in the meantime the folds have been smoothed, but in the past there have been some problems. With regard to the reference address for homeless people, I think there is indeed a solution, especially when the crossroads bank will exchange the data from this year on. If I understand correctly, the homeless will no longer be checked by the postmen at their reference address, but will have to report to the OCMW in accordance with the normal procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u42	Minister, it goes without saying that the Flemish interest condemns any form of social fraud. However, the fraud we are discussing today should not be sought from the elderly or the socially weaker in our society, who often have to make ends meet with difficulty. The current control system provides extra stress and unrest. Elderly people want to stay home and can no longer shop or take trips out of fear of losing their benefit. I would therefore urge you to leave a letter in the mailbox from the first check, when an older person is not at home. We will patiently await the results of the evaluation of the system, of the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u43	Madam President, I wanted to go back to the Minister's speech on the two-pronged debate, today's debate and the one on the evaluation of the system. In my introduction, I said that I made a distinction between the two and I assure you that I reserved questions for the evaluation. Minister, thank you for the answers given because my question on recipient profiles is advancing the understanding of the problem of this control with the numbers you give us. You say that a number of people have not worked in Belgium and have not contributed. However, in the table you have given me, it appears that 32.18% have worked for more than 30 years. In spite of this, they must request a supplement of GRAPA. This is part of the understanding of the problem. If I add those who have more than twenty years of career, we reach 46.31%. 72% of beneficiaries have a partial professional career in Belgium. It is important to say so because we talked about social shopping, but there are people who have worked, some over thirty years, and unfortunately have to claim GRAPA. 28% do not have a professional career in Belgium. Do these people have a professional background in another country? And among them, how many have a pension abroad? Can you provide us with this answer by March 25th? If not, do I have to file a written question? I would also like to know how many Belgians and non-Belges are involved. Of the non-Belgians, how many are Europeans? I imagine that the Belgians who now live in a European country may have an equivalent to GRAPA. I do not know whether this exists in all European countries. The first figure, ladies and gentlemen, which I would like to highlight in this topical debate is that one third of the beneficiaries have a career of 30 years or more. In terms of age, if I take the data from your table, we learn that 31,367 beneficiaries are 80 years of age and over – or 29.5% of them. This is huge, with all the problems that it can pose in terms of mobility and dependence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u44	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u45	Yeah, but wait... they're under control, when they weren't before. Finally, there are 119 centenaries. That is the answer to my question. I am not going back to the issue of privacy, because we are not dealing with a double debate, at the risk of having a dialogue of the deaf. I will therefore reserve my legal and data protection remarks for the day of the evaluation. We are really in a dialogue of the deaf, as the arguments unfortunately do not meet. In conclusion, the statistical component has evolved the understanding of the problem as a whole. This shows that pensions in Belgium are too low. Social insurance should further prevent older people from poverty. But that is not the case. It is on this issue that we should be working on in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u46	Madam President, Minister, a number of questions remained unanswered, but I assume that on 25 March we will have the opportunity and space to discuss them further and to continue the debate on them. Our group is still opposed to this new control system. We are absolutely not convinced. You won't be surprised. That does not mean that we are opposed to any form of control, it is not. We are talking about social assistance, and we are already looking at a certain degree of control, such as research into the means of subsistence, before it is granted. We are simply saying that this control system is disproportionate, that it completely misses its purpose and that it has a lot of negative effects, which have been repeatedly cited by other colleagues, I am not going to repeat. Our group proposes a more humane approach to the control system. This means that we can organise verification of conditions of residence in many other ways, as was also discussed at the hearing, including the suggestions made by Mr Hermesse of the Christian Mutualities. On this basis, we have also tabled an amendment to the Green resolution. We call not only for a moratorium, but also for an effective replacement of the current system of control which is too rigid, with a more humane system which also eliminates discrimination. People who enjoy an increased allowance can stay 90 days abroad and we also want to introduce this for the IGO pensioners. In addition, we also want the checks to be carried out by sworn officials, we want targeted samples, targeted checks and certain people, for example the 80-plussers, no longer to be checked. We also want to achieve automatic control by means of simple data exchange. Mr Hermesse also suggested that the data of people receiving care in this country, data known to the mutuality, can easily be transferred to the Federal Pension Service. The same applies to the flexi-jobbers. In this way we can exclude many people who are now being unnecessarily controlled. People must also be informed of any negative control. Let me repeat, after all, that the presumption of innocence is being harmed here. It seems that, by definition, one is suspected of receiving an IGO benefit and having to be checked for social fraud. We think that's a bridge too far. We are therefore asking in our amendment that, if we have missed that check, we have a month to submit an objection, to go into the defence, to prove effectively that it is not. We have included all these issues in the amendment. I look forward to further debate on this on 25 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u47	Minister, as far as form is concerned, a surreal control procedure may also require a surreal debate. The procedure was certainly there first. There will be an evaluation on March 25th. Certain points are difficult to settle and we may never fully agree on everything. However, there are still some points that are worth looking at further. First of all, you use the framing here that everyone used to have to go to the town hall while now they don't have to do it in 92 percent of cases. In the past, however, not everyone had to go to the town hall, but samples were used. The 80-plussers, which I understand make up 30% of the total, were not even checked at all in the past. The truth has its rights, too. Secondly, as far as the evidence is concerned, I hope that there will be a progressive understanding. During the hearings it was stated that, for example, if one stays with the children and grandchildren for a week at the sea, the lease must be in the name of the owner. So that makes it harder to prove cases. For example, there are still train tickets today that are not registered. If people continue to be difficult about this and do not trust people, we will continue to be faced with this problem. I also had questions about the first, second and third attempts. The bpost's guy explained the procedure nicely. Since everything is stored digitally, I'm sure the Federal Pension Service should be able to find out. After all, the mailman has to fill it in every time he's been at the door. These data can be impossible to generate as everything is digitized. I also remain hungry when you say that the control is not done by bpost. I can go along with that in part, but if someone is suspended they assume the first absence recorded by the postman. That moment is used as the starting date for the suspension. The postman does go beyond his authority, because that control should actually be done by sworn social assistants. In that respect, we have still not received a clear answer. Apparently, you leave it to the judge to decide if this is okay. I am reassured and also want to be positive about the reference address. Hopefully this will all be resolved. It is also positive that the FPD, if someone is entitled to IGO with a private person, will contact the local OCMW. Finally, Mrs Lanjri has put it nicely. Of the one hundred percent of people who are afraid, there is not one percent of evil will but only half a percent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic133x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said and we will continue this debate on 25 March. However, I would like to comment on a few points. Firstly, you say that the postman does not have the power to control himself or to make decisions. We know that. He treats this like a registered shipment. He's checking to see if the person he's got in front of him is the person he's supposed to deliver the package to. The difference is that this is legally regulated for the registered shipment that the mailman can do so. For that, he can ask for the identity card. However, he is not allowed to do so here because this is not yet regulated by law. That's what the privacy committee says. That is why it is my question to ensure that there is a legal basis for this. If you want the postmen to continue this in the future, possibly in a different way, then you must ensure that the postmen are competent to do so. For that, according to my reading of what the privacy committee has said, we need to amend the law. Secondly, I had also asked you whether it would still be useful for people to offer themselves in the town hall if they were abroad for more than 29 days. I asked you that question because I was with OKRA and the CM last week. They said they're still asking. I found that very strange, because in a new procedure it does not make sense that after more than 29 days abroad one still has to go to the town hall. They then sent me the FPD's service note. You refer to Article 42 of the Royal Decree. You're saying it's no longer necessary to physically offer in the town hall, which I think makes sense. The CM, the OKRA and possibly other organisations are based today on the service note dated 11 September 2019. So something must have gone wrong, Minister. This means that many organisations still believe that they should follow these directives, which I believe are no longer valid. I would very much like you, by means of a letter or a circular, to point out to all partners, the mutualities and so on, that they should use the correct service note, and not the service note that apparently was still circulating on the website on 11 September. The problem is that people still have to move to the town hall unjustly. Please set that straight. Finally, I hope that the recommendations I have just made will be followed. I know that we decided in the previous legislature that the controls had to be changed. I know that CD&V has decided on this. We want to check, but in a good way. I believe it is essential to correct this. I've given you some slopes. I hope that they will be examined and that we will be able to land on 25 March or sooner. For less than 1% of fraudsters, we do not want to frighten 100 percent of people.
