ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u1	Mr President, Minister, ketamine is currently a frequently used recreational drug. I was therefore very surprised when I came to the website ketamine by typing the word ketamine.nu, where ketamine can be bought openly, not on the dark web, but very directly. A child may, so to speak, end up on this website. Are you aware of that? Also striking is the accessibility of the site, with offers, home delivery and semi-professional and semi-scientific usage instructions that really lead people who would like to use ketamine to the wrong track. Can you take action in the context of general public health? Can you prohibit that website? It is known that the combination of ketamine and alcohol is life-threatening. We hear from the emergency services that there are increasing numbers of people who have taken a combination of drugs, including ketamine and alcohol. Are you aware of that? Can you do something about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, in Belgium it is only permitted to sell non-regulatory medicinal products online via a website notified to the FAGG, which must also be linked to a physical pharmacy. As you know, Ketamine is a prescription medicine and also a psychotropic substance. As a result, online offering is unequivocally prohibited in Belgium. Illegal websites hosted on a Belgian domain can be closed. The same applies to websites falling within the competence of other European Member States in the context of cooperation with the administrations of these Member States. However, websites hosted outside the European Union completely escape these regulations, including our powers. Such websites cannot be closed, but can theoretically be blocked by the Belgian Internet Providers. However, this is a cumbersome and costly procedure which does not appear to be productive. It is quite easy to circumvent this measure. Moreover, it is very easy to maintain an illegal offer through new websites. The latest European drug report of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and Europol clearly describes indications for drug sales on both the cryptomarket, the so-called darknet, and on the regular internet. This is in fact a logical consequence of the developments in recent years in the way in which our society communicates commercially as well as socially. In recent years, Sciensano's Reitox National Focal Point noted an increase in the use of ketamine as a recreational drug in the baseline environment. In Belgium, we do not yet have a systematic and real-time recording system for data on the use of resources and related incidents in the emergency services. Two emergency services have participated in a European pilot project (Euro-DEN) in Flanders in recent years to collect sound information based on patient self-reporting in combination with the clinical interpretation of the treating physician, as well as the analytical confirmation of relatively relevant drug use. A recent report of the pilot project mentions ketamine as one of the 20 most relevant substances for which users apply to emergency services between 2014 and 2017. Another source on which we can also base to monitor the problematic use of ketamine is the Belgian register of treatment applications for illegal substances and alcohol, the Treatment Demand Indicator of Sciensano. This register collects data in most Belgian hospitals, as well as in specialised mental health centres and centres. These figures reflect part of all treatments because this register contains no information about clients who are followed by general practitioners, psychologists or psychiatrists in private practice or in prisons. It is therefore not a complete database, but it gives the best possible indication of the developments and characteristics of the treatment requests in the centres. In 2018, the last available year, 497 ketamine treatment applications were registered as listed problematic substance. That was 1,69 % of the total at the time. The number has increased significantly between 2015, with only 195 cases remaining, and 2017 with 439 cases. The treatment applications in which ketamine was listed as the main problematic substance in 2018 concerned 85% of the cases of men with an average age of 24.5 years, i.e. reasonably young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u3	Your answer confirms the problem of ketamine, which is really hip in the nightlife neighborhoods at the moment and is called special K. That trendy name also works threshold lowering. I am particularly concerned about rapid accessibility. Blocking that website can require a lot of work and a website can be re-established quickly, but it really has to be put to use. The so-called scientific profile of these websites also gives users a false sense of security. In the rehab centers this is almost always the first thing that is heard: "I know what I'm doing, because I've checked how much I can use every few hours and what to do with it." That is precisely the problem with the younger generation who uses these substances and eventually becomes dependent on them and sometimes starts to combine them, which raises a bigger problem. There must be an absolute commitment to registration. Measuring is knowing. We have had the discussion about nitrous oxide, where it was also initially stated that the problem was not so great, while other studies show that it is quite large. This also applies to ketamine. I would like to call for registration so that treatments can be dealt with correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u4	Mr President, my question No. 5500294C was mistakenly placed in the circuit of oral questions, because I asked for a number of figures. This question may be included in the written report as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, it has indeed been a long time since we were able to ask you any questions. In January, a megapane intervened. It wasn't a thunderstorm in a serene sky, as there were repeated breakdowns. This was not 2020, nor 2019. As a result of this breakdown, the deputy head of the platform responded that emergency electronic procedures had not been able to maintain full functionality and that he would meet quickly with the platform's technical partners to consider improvements. Of course. I read what you answered in September 2018. At the time, I had already questioned you about repeated failures of the platform, and you had indicated that you were putting in place a whole structure to work precisely to improve the operational reality of the platform. At the beginning of the year, several interlocutors on the ground, despite the various warnings they had again addressed to you, rewritten you in February to call for a real change in consultation with the field. Since then, and in the middle of VOCID-19, problems have still been encountered. General practitioners have told me about breakdowns in the eHealth platform, at particularly challenging times for them. Madam Minister, I would like us to take stock today. What about the evolution of recent months? Will the new provisions to amend the system announced in January, as already two years ago, lead to a certain or even absolute improvement? The State and you, in this case, impose obligations on actors on the ground. The least we can expect from the health authorities is that they guarantee the effectiveness of the system. Madam Minister, even if this issue comes late after this January mega-panne, I would like us to take stock, especially to see whether or not you and the services have been making the system fully operational.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u6	General practitioners have once again had to deal with a total crash of the eHealth online health system, the electronic platform for the exchange of medical data.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u7	Mrs. Gijbels, your questions are mainly about the number of medication regulations in 2019. As far as the traditional paper rules are concerned, I cannot, of course, give figures, which are not kept by all the tarification services. Moreover, not all offers of paper rules are recorded through the requested and desired electronic registration. It is, of course, easier for electronic regulations. About 56% of the requirements offered were electronic and this percentage is still increasing monthly. For these regulations we can give exact figures, because the count is automatic in the recording of the regulations by Recip-e. For 2019 I have the aggregated figures, not by prescriber. 47.115.209 electronic regulations were written by general practitioners, 2.790.725 by outpatient specialists and 531.972 by dentists. By the hospital specialists, also outpatient, 11 million were written out. 506 electronic regulations were also written by midwifes. The total number of electronic rules for 2019 shall be 62,146,837. The total number of paper regulations is estimated at 50 million. This has been calculated on the basis of the total number of processed tarifications of regulations offered via Recip-e and then extrapolated on the basis of the data. In January 2020, 78.1% of active general practitioners used electronic regulations, as did 48.1% of all active dentists. For specialists and midwives this is difficult to calculate because there are also hospital settings. Here I have a long technical explanation of the exact causes of the eHealth platform failure and how this breakdown was resolved. The same goes for Proximus' crash the next day. Business continuity plans have been developed in the meantime, and this is what really matters. Depending on the type of problem, some parts of the process can be bypassed, which disables features such as time stamping of all message exchanges. Finally, there are so-called "emergency" procedures, which allow some manual actions to be dealt with. For prescriptions of medicines, paper prescriptions can be used, but emergency procedures have been established for all processes. These procedures are available on the eHealth platform and on the National Institute of Sickness and Disability Insurance (INAMI) website. The eHealth Plan 2019-2021 launched several projects on Operational Excellence. For example, the "Quality of health software" project for general practitioners has been developed and implemented. Plans have also been drawn up for dentists, home nurses and physicists. As far as the "Test environments" project is concerned, a first project of testing eHealth basic services for Mobile Health applications is now active. There is a need for many enlargements. The "Service-level Agreement" and "Service Management" projects have been intensively addressed. In the systems provided by the eHealth platforms via Smalls, we see a great improvement and much less failure. The BCP project has been tackled smoothly, of course after the problems that emerged in the summer of 2018. There are children's diseases, but as you can see, we've been working hard to fix them. Digital transformation in healthcare is and remains the only way to organise certain healthcare processes much more efficiently and efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u8	Madam Minister, I will look at the figures on the number of electronic regulations. It is extremely important to pay sufficient attention to eHealth and the crashes. The corona crisis has shown that digital applications are the way of the future. It has made many healthcare providers more confident. It is now important to maintain that trust and ensure that the systems are reliable and safe. They not only provide greater efficiency in treatment procedures, but they also facilitate administration and are cost-effective. On that road, we absolutely must move forward. One condition is that the systems are 100% reliable and that they can really convince doctors and other care providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u9	Minister, I have no doubt that initiatives have been taken. You remind us that in the event of a problem, an emergency procedure is planned. However, patients and health care professionals suffer the consequences. I was waiting for you to commit to ensuring 99.9% reliability, because we can't maintain a system that fails regularly. We will see whether the actions will be carried out effectively in the light of the reality on the ground. I will not fail to return to you, but I dare hope that you will impose this guarantee of reliability on the eHealth platform yourself. As a public authority, this is what we owe to health professionals and patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u10	Mr President, everything has been said by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, the shortage of nurses is also the subject of today's topical debate. To the extent that an answer is already being given, I will be able to confine myself to the debate. My question is entirely in line with the debate and I therefore believe that an update can be made. We have been asking for much longer, in fact for the six years I have been a Member of Parliament, to provide a solution to the shortage of nurses, especially in the institutions. Professor Sermeus' study was already known to us. The reason for my oral question is a KCE report which confirms the figures of the number of nurses at the bed in the institutions. In Professor Sermeus' study there is an average of 10.7 patients per nurse, of which about 80% was financed, which in practice amounts to 13 patients per nurse. The KCE report mentions the figure of 9.4 patients per nurse, which is still above the international standard of 8. We are therefore in the same regions as Spain and Greece, and the workload here is almost double that in the Scandinavian countries, which are much more committed to the bed. We know from the studies that such an excessive workload on the part of the care staff is linked to a higher mortality rate. Each additional patient means 7 % more chance of an unexpected death and also increases the risk of a burn-out. We really need to cherish our care staff. When I update my question, I would certainly like to congratulate you on the resources you have allocated to the healthcare sector. For home care, you have already taken steps through a concession on the occasion of the COOVID pandemic. Now you have also made structural funds available for the healthcare sector. That is a real heartfelt concern of the sector and it will also mean a structural improvement. You have already said in plenary that you are still working on the modalities. That is why I would like to ask you whether you can indicate the direction in which this is going politically. I refer to the resolution of our N-VA group in this regard, in which we ask that the working conditions of the care staff be improved. It is not just a question of improving standards, that is to say more hands on the bed, but also of changing the fees for self-employed care at home. Work must also be done on a land register.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u12	Mrs. Van Camp, you need to close up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u13	Madam Minister, my question is whether you can clarify this in advance. Are the modalities for these two sectors developed in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u14	Mrs Van Camp, your question dates from 30 January. In the meantime, there has indeed been a lot going on in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, first and foremost, the Knowledge Centre has produced a very good report on nurses' bestaffining in hospitals. We must use this report as an instrument to guide policy for the coming years. You know that nurses play an important role in hospital care, close to the patient, but also are not unimportant to the doctors and other caregivers. Given the growing concern of citizens, we can expect their interest to grow in the coming years. It is therefore essential to invest not only financially, but also organizationally and in terms of content in the attractiveness of the profession. Several steps have already been taken in previous years. We had the 2017 social agreement for the staff of public and private federal healthcare institutions, in particular to improve working conditions, for example by introducing end-of-life measures, or to increase employment in services or to improve remuneration. Then there was also the organisational hospital reform, which means that there is more cooperation between hospitals in the hospital networks. This cooperation and the fact that each hospital will focus on specific activities in the network will create a form of specialisation that will make it possible to work more efficiently and qualitatively. In this way, resources can be released that can be re-invested in nursing care. In substance, there is the reform of the law on the exercise of health professions. There a better support of the nurses was provided. Acts may be delegated to a care professional. In addition, the function of nursing specialist was created, which expands the ability of the nurse to grow. That's a lot of steps, but we're not there yet. The report from the Knowledge Centre says that there is an improvement, but that we are indeed not there yet. Additional efforts by everyone remain necessary, not only from the Länder and the federal level, but also from Well-being, Education, hospitals themselves, professional organisations and others. We know that, in the meantime, the Health Care Staff Fund provided a large sum for more hands on the bed in Parliament, which also applies partly to self-employed nurses. This gives the opportunity to recruit more caregivers and to train more people to be nurses or caregivers. In the social dialogue I concluded a social agreement with Mr Muylle and Mr Clarinval. It grants €600 million to the care staff and has worked on wage conditions, with €500 million for a 100 percent tilt of IFIC. A further 100 million has been allocated to other measures, including to remove primary nurses from the standard, so that they do not count anymore. After all, they have a coordinating function and do not deliver none, but still little hands to the bed. I am thinking, for example, of holiday arrangements, timetables and so on. All this will now have to be completed by collective agreements or collective agreements, depending on whether it is a private or public sector. Social dialogue will now look into this. This will take place in January 2021 and will continue until the end of 2022. Of course, a new social agreement will be sought for the next few years on which to build. Important steps have been taken in this legislature. The major challenge is the need to fill out the vacancies. No one really has a solution for that. We need to find people who want to be trained in healthcare and we need to motivate young people. We must also pay attention to the lateral influx, I am thinking of people who have already received a different education, but who wish to receive additional training. Nurses who, for example, have been working on an insurance or occupational health service for years may also be able to take the step towards health care. This does not, of course, apply to anyone who exercises any kind of profession, but the level of training is too high. There it will be a challenge to be able to motivate enough people to work in healthcare and to ensure the attractiveness of the profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u16	Madam Secretary of State has quite rightly spoken about her time, because it is an important issue. So, Mrs. Van Camp, you're going to have a double reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u17	It has been announced in the press that the funds released would also be used for self-employed nursing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u18	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u19	Okay, I missed that. I thought you were only talking about pay-as-you-go. Then I'm reassured. Many ideas have already been put forward to attract more staff in the healthcare sector, but I am convinced that we can lead people to the profession if working conditions improve, if there are enough hands on the bed and if, for example, the fees are up-to-date for self-employed home care and they really cover the workload. This makes the profession much more attractive. So I certainly welcome these efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u20	I got a question from the sector and when I started digging into parliamentary work, I only found that in 2018, in the most recent parliamentary discussion on this subject, you had received the opinions on podologists and specialist foot caregivers, which you had received from the Federal Council for Paramedical Occupations and from the Technical Committee for Paramedical Professions in August 2018, and announced an analysis by your services, which would then be linked back to the representatives. What came out of that feedback? What is the status of the file now? If I am not mistaken, the specialist foot caregivers have still not been recognised. What will you do to make that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u21	Madam Secretary, the specialist foot caregivers tend to care for patients with rheumatism, diabetes and cancer, but they are not paramedics. They are covered by the Joint Committee for Beauty Specialists. That turned out to be a problem during the corona crisis. In normal circumstances, almost half of the residents of service flats regularly receive a pedicure, but according to the National Security Council measures, beauty specialists were not allowed to carry out activities at that time, not even on relocation. Podologists were allowed to do that with a doctor's referral. As Mr Van Camp said, there seems to be a procedure for recognising specialist foot caregivers as paramedics, so that they also benefit from a number of the advantages that podologists have with a VAT exemption. Indeed, in April, the Public Health Office gave the advice to continue with the recognition of specialist foot caregivers as paramedics, which should result in three levels, namely podologists, specialized foot caregivers and cosmetic foot caregivers. Where are we on the recognition of that profession? Can we expect further steps in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u22	At the moment, twelve paramedical professions have been recognized. We have taken legislative initiatives for half of these professions in the last legislature. I also refer to the memorandum on the modernisation of the regulations of the paramedical professions. In view of the current cases, the specialist foot care file was placed on hold. In current cases, we have only been able to complete the dossiers for which the legislative work was already initiated in the period when the government still had full power. This was the case, for example, for the case of the paramedics non-urgent patient transport and for the orthoptist optometrist. The profession of specialist foot caretaker will undoubtedly have to be dealt with during the next legislative term in the light of other necessary revisions, such as the revision of the paramedical profession of bandagist, orthesist and prothesist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u23	Madam Minister, I find it scandalous in all honesty that you are hiding behind the current cases to say that you will not be able to solve the problem. After all, you were asked the question in the previous legislature when you had time to work on it for the current period. It is a pity that this has not yet happened and that you are now referring to the next legislature. After all, these are people who are committed to our healthcare sector. You also referred to the example of other professions, whose practitioners are still waiting for recognition, and it is a pity that reference is made to the next legislature for this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u24	Madam Minister, you had effectively indicated before the current period that this would be done. Apparently, however, this did not happen, which had consequences during the corona crisis. We had to find that there was a problem because of the lack of recognition of the profession of specialist foot caregiver. At the moment, we can only hope for rapid government formation, and we are looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u25	Minister, according to the latest report of the Health Care Supply Planning Commission, the shortage of general practitioners announced for years is expected to worsen and spread across the linguistic border. In 2016, there were 55,678 doctors likely to work in Belgium, of whom only 32,584 were actually active in the health care sector. In recent years, specialized medicine has seen its strength increase. Indeed, the number of specialists active in health care increased by 28 per cent between 2004 and 2016, from 15,419 to 19,773. Half of them (51%) work in Flanders, 32% in Wallonia and 17% in the Brussels-Capital Region. As far as general practitioners are concerned, Belgium has 12,093 full-time equivalent general practitioners (FTEs), of whom 7,757 in Flanders and 4,336 in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. Over the last 13 years covered by the study covering the period from 2004 to 2016, the number of general practitioners' FTEs increased by 1.7% in Flanders but decreased by 8% in French-speaking Belgium. There are also disparities between the different provinces. When Eastern Flanders is able to count on 13.3 FTEs of general practitioners per 10 000 inhabitants, Brussels must be content with 8.1 FTEs for the same number of inhabitants. In addition, in 2016, one third of Belgian generalists were over 60 years old. For 4,170 general practitioners over the age of 60, 1,262 of them were in training, which means that for 3,3 physicians retiring, only one is trained to replace him. Minister, how do you explain the sharp increase in the number of specialized physicians? How do you plan to respond to the shortage of general practitioners in some parts of the country? How can we prevent it from getting worse? The quota system in force in the country is no longer sustainable. Does not the revision of the dentistry and medical quotas seem essential to you? Don't you think you need to change the allocation key to better meet health care needs? Are there any further consultations in this area with the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u26	Mr Prévot, may I begin by reminding you of the distribution of quota competence? While the overall federal quota for Belgium as a whole is a federal quota, the sub-quotas – whose number of generalists – depend on the Communities. And it's not from yesterday! The high number of specialists in some areas is due to the fact that specialized candidates do not always choose to focus on specialties that require more candidates to meet the needs of the population. There are several reasons for this, including the qualitative difference in fees between the different specialties. The Communities are in the process of setting up planning commissions at their level of competence, with the task of determining subquotas to ensure a distribution of specialties in accordance with the specificities of each entity. The French Community, for its part, has already noted on two occasions the proportion of generalist candidates authorised to enter their specialty, since general medicine is also a specialty, as you know. This is a first step in the fight against the decline of general practitioners. Other useful policies, such as the installation incentives and the former Impulseo Fund, were also transferred during the Sixth State Reform. At the federal level, the members of the Planning Commission are currently working intensively on these issues and will publish, at the end of the first half of the year, scenarios for the evolution of the workforce of doctors and dentists. Alternative scenarios will follow on from which the next quotas will be based. Quotas are regularly reviewed on the basis of the latest available data. The data produced by the Federal Government are available to the Communities to fix the subquotas. Each specialty is analyzed in detail. The administration is studying alternatives to the current quota system by linking them to the programming, funding and quality of internship places. The Working Group on Health Services of the Interministerial Conference is the place where consultations with federated entities take place. The work of this working group will resume after the summer. However, if new elements in the planning package were to be put on the agenda, this working group could of course be convened as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. This is not the first time I've asked you about these shortages, with these disparities depending on some provinces. I note that work is under way on possible alternatives to the current quota system and that the members of the Planning Commission will make conclusions at the end of this first half of the year. I will not hesitate at that time to verify and interview you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u28	Madam Minister, a visit to the dentist will be considerably more expensive from 1 March 2020. The reason for this price increase can be traced back to the fact that many dentists believe that legal fees are not sufficiently high, which is reflected in the fact that more than 40% of the Flemish dentists are already unconventional and therefore do not have to comply with the tariff agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u29	Mr Creyelman, the budget for medical care for 2020 was adopted by the General Council and subsequently approved by the Government. The partial objective of dental care in the budget was never used up. In other words, there is always an underutilisation. In this context, the government was therefore difficult to convince of the need to increase the budget for tariff adjustments. The possibility to charge maximum rates is also linked in the agreement to the commitment of the dentists to give full transparency to the insurance institutions on the invoice charged to the patient. However, I note that this commitment is still not being honoured at the moment. It is true that we have protected vulnerable patients from the maximum rates. After all, it is a good thing for all patients if this agreement allows us to increase the number of petitioned dentists. However, I would say in advance that the corona crisis will make it difficult to compare figures. After all, dental care was also postponed, only urgent interventions could happen. That is why I fear that we will see another deterioration in the frequency of dental visits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u30	I agree, Madam Minister, that the corona crisis will have caused some delays and adjustments for reasons other than those I mentioned. However, I am pleased that you are also concerned about the fact that dental hygiene and care are an important part of public health and have an impact on social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I had addressed this question to Minister Muylle, but I was referred to you. My question concerns the rules on advertising for painkillers. There is currently a lot of advertising on radio and television for painkillers. What do you think of that? Can or should the regulation not be strengthened? At present, it is sufficient to ask to read the package leaflet carefully to allow advertising. How do you view audiovisual advertising for painkillers and medicines? Do you think that the legislation should be reviewed? Do we have figures that show that the population is reading the package leaflet effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Farih, advertising of medicinal products is strictly regulated in Belgium, particularly in the pharmaceutical law of 25 March 1964 and in the Royal Decree of 7 April 1995 on information and advertising of medicinal products for human use. This legislation is also based on the European Directive 2001/83/EC. Public advertising is prohibited in any case for regulated medicinal products. In the case of advertising spots on radio or television, a visa must be obtained in advance, which is issued by the Minister for Health after the opinion of the Commission for the Control of Advertising of Medicinal Products. This committee will carry out a thorough and critical evaluation of the proposed advertising spot in advance. The legislation states quite literally that all advertising must promote the rational use of the medicinal product by presenting it objectively without exaggerating its characteristics, and that it must not be misleading. They are always short messages; therefore it is not possible to include all the information in the package leaflet. A reference to the package leaflet is indeed required. The Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products has repeatedly launched campaigns and communications for the safe use of medicines. The latest campaign dates back to March 2020, in particular a Flash VIG-News: good use of pain and fever medication. In Belgium the delivery of all medicines, whether prescribed or not, is reserved for pharmacists. Of course, part of the responsibility for informing the doctor and the pharmacist about the correct use of medicines lies with them. It's hard to stop drug use. There are training modules to guide people who take too much pain-relieving medication when phasing out. There are people who start taking medicines, but who never shrink or stop taking them. That's not good for health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u33	Mr President, I agree with your conclusion. It is indeed not good for health. We are being heard on the radio advertising for Dafalgan Forte, while we know that one can already speak of an overdose if someone weighs 65 kg takes three Dafalgans Forte. It would be good if a little more campaigns were launched on painkilling drugs. We need that. Especially in times of corona, a lot of people have quickly grabbed different kinds of medications that were in their closet. In this respect, we need to protect the population better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u34	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55003035C, 55003414C and 55003036C by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u35	Mr President, Madam Minister, a report by the Federal Health Knowledge Centre shows that around 70% of pregnant women are more than recommended by a gynecologist or a midwife. Despite its considerable social costs, the real problem is that 4% of pregnant women went to less than 7 prenatal consultations. The same report showed that 3 % did not even have an appointment during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy. Madam Secretary, what do you think are the causes of the fact that pregnant women have too little or even no prenatal consultations? What measures will you take to bring the number of prenatal consultations to a 'normal' level in that target group? How do you intend to reduce the number of 'unneeded' consultations? Are you planning specific additional communication on the parallel visit to gynecologists and midwives, in order to limit the overconsumption of prenatal consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u36	Minister, the KCE study has indeed highlighted some alarming findings. The offer of care is very varied but future parents feel lost and without reference to get answers to their questions. Administrative procedures related to pregnancy sometimes seem insurmountable. The preparation of the post-partum is not always offered to all parents. Too many pregnant women do not see a gynecologist for 20 weeks. Minister, what conclusions do you draw from this study? How can we ensure that Belgian recommendations on pregnancy monitoring are followed by all pregnant women? For a low-risk pregnancy, there are seven minimum prenatal consultations. What do you think of the KCE's proposal to structure pregnancy follow-up by an identical path of prenatal care or adapted to specific needs? What do you think of the existence of an antenatal care coordinator who could ensure that no steps are forgotten? Is this proposal already being considered within your administration? Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u37	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, Mr Rigot, it is true that a number of women do not follow prenatal consultations. The causes of this may often be individual in nature. Of course, patients have the freedom of choice in the way they want to be cared for. This is not a phenomenon that applies only to pregnant women. However, the government can raise maximum awareness to convince everyone to use the available care. The problem is addressed in the working group on "Helkunde" of the Technical Medical Council of the RIZIV, in consultation with the Medical Evaluation and Control Service. The aim is to identify the problem well and to look at the need for action at a secondary level. Mr Rigot, today there are many possibilities for good prenatal monitoring of pregnant women. However, patients are free to make use of the care offered and available. It is not certain that the systematic designation of a care coordinator resolves this issue. As has been said, the recommendations are discussed in the INAMI Medical Technical Council's Surgery Working Group. Women also have the choice, for example, to be accompanied by a midwife in addition to the general practitioner or gynecologist. My daughter was accompanied by a midwife. He planned everything. All possibilities are open. Of course, it is important, because it concerns the health of the mother and the child, to opt for guidance. Many women have no guidance in the first 20 weeks. That problem needs to be addressed first. We know that the NIP test is used very often. That might also be an opportunity to take that step. It must therefore continue to be worked on, but the choice of guidance, by the general practitioner and/or a gynecologist or a midwife, is an individual choice. We're releasing them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u38	Madam Secretary, pregnancy is not a disease, unlike some overprotective future fathers, including myself, sometimes think. I am certainly pleased that you agree, along with the two men who have asked this question, that medical supervision of pregnancy should be recommended and even necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u39	Thank you, Madam Minister. I totally agree with you. It is not a question of forcing, but of encouraging, supporting, informing about the usefulness, both for future mothers and for their future child, of following this prenatal path. You pointed it out. You also stressed women's freedom of choice. The Socialist Group is particularly interested in this. This freedom to choose one's destiny and to choose how to live one's life as a woman is essential. But it is also known that the period of pregnancy is a period of great vulnerability, of great questioning for the woman and her spouse. These moments lead to a vulnerability that can be reduced by being at the bedside of the future mother, giving her the advice, the care, the help that can be implemented. I am pleased to hear that you will be attentive to it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to make it clear here that my question was tabled in early February, before the health crisis affected our country. In February of this year, the EpiCURA Hospital, located in Hornu, faced an epidemic caused by a very resistant bacterium. On 5 February, she had already killed two people. Four other patients were infected and under treatment. The bacterium acinetobacter Baumannii attacks vulnerable people and causes respiratory infections. It is an environmental bacterium that can persist in the environment and opportunistic, highly resistant to antibiotics. If healthy people are less at risk, immunocompromised people can be easily affected, which explains why this bacterium has a high mortality rate. At the time, the hospital had decided to close the intensive care unit as well as the pneumonology service at admissions, to strengthen the teams and to dedicate staff only for infected patients. Minister, four months later, can you take stock of the situation? What precautions should be taken in hospitals in such cases? Are they systematically listed by FPS Public Health? If so, can you take stock of the services and hospitals affected by this type of resistant bacteria in recent years? What about the situation at the EpiCURA Hospital in Hornu?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u41	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prévot, to answer your question about the number of cases listed by the Public Health FPS, I have here a table containing the data from 2014 to February 2020. I'll give it to you because commenting on it would take too much time. There is a support team called Outbreak Support Team (OST) in case of an epidemic of bacteria difficult to treat; they are Multidrug-Resistant Organizations. This team was created in 2014 to help health care institutions manage an epidemic of multidrug-resistant organisms or to provide appropriate support. Support takes various forms: scientific advice, support in prioritizing measures, information to the various stakeholders, on-the-spot intervention, workplace assessment or sampling and, exceptionally, control measures by the competent inspection services, results of surveillance of infections related to care, observation of hand hygiene, antibiotic resistance and antibiotic use. They are consulted and discussed in consultation with the hospital hygiene team and, of course, with the management of the health care facility in question. The Outbreak Support Team consists of health inspections or infectious disease control services of federated entities, experts from Sciensano – with the support of national reference centres – and, if necessary, external experts. The hospital or health care facility decides itself to request assistance from the OST. The demand is possible after notification of the epidemic to the Communities or Regions. The number of reported epidemics and subsequent visits represents an objective observation but does not in any way reflect the complexity of the situations in question, the efforts made or the overall epidemiological situation in Belgium, since the request for support from the OST is made on a voluntary basis. As a result, not all Multidrug-Resistant Organisms epidemics are listed within the Public Health FPS as they are previously notified to the competent authorities, and an application must be made for OST to intervene. However, some Directorates of Establishment remain reluctant to use this expert service for a variety of reasons. Thus, some want to remain discreet and fear leaks – although OST is subject to professional secrecy and does not disclose information related to epidemics – or feel they can manage the epidemic themselves. For the sake of confidentiality, necessary in order to promote good cohesion in the fight against epidemics related to multi-resistant bacteria and to ensure the discretion and respect of the patient, his family and the staff concerned, the OST cannot disclose the standards of the institutions concerned by the problem. Of course, there is a picture of outbreaks of multidrug-resistant bacteria for which epidemic support has been provided since the creation of the OST. That's the picture I'm going to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. You took a snapshot of the situation and explained the work of this support team created in 2014 to help the institution cope with an epidemic. I now receive the overview of epidemics and the situations listed from 2014 to 2020, for which I also thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u43	Madam Secretary, as a result of the imminent redundancies at the pharmaceutical company GSK, the funding of these companies was discussed. The pharmaceutical companies are not only subsidised by the European Union, but also by our government. Innovation and research are the main focus of the project. How many subsidies go directly to the pharmaceutical industry? How are subsidies distributed? Are there any other direct or indirect subsidies? What conditions are attached to this? How will these conditions be verified? What sanctions will be imposed if a company no longer fulfils the conditions? Will subsidies be recovered or a fine imposed? Will subsidies be charged in the negotiations on the prices of medicinal products?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u44	Mrs Sneppe, I cannot tell from your question exactly what subsidies you are talking about. In any case, the administrations under my jurisdiction do not award such subsidies to companies in the pharmaceutical sector. The federal government has several levers of a different nature, such as tax incentives, but these are not subsidies and are rarely targeted at a sector or a company; they encourage innovation across all sectors. There is also the possibility of economic support at the level of the Länder, but I have no idea. It is usually the Minister for Innovation, Economics or Scientific Research, who is responsible for this. The current pandemic has demonstrated the importance of the presence of capacity to produce medicines in its own country. For the development of a vaccine against COVID-19, which everyone around the world is waiting for, we are counting on the innovative power of companies, some of which are also based in Belgium. All this reinforces the call for well-considered public action aimed at the sustainable anchoring of the sector and other innovative sectors in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. What subsidies am I talking about? This is a question from the beginning of February. I should look up where I read about that. You said that there are no direct subsidies, but public subsidies through fiscal incentives and economic support through the Länder. I recognise with you the importance of the presence of pharmaceutical companies in our country, so that we are closer to those companies and perhaps even more quickly get medicines or vaccines. My question was one to obtain intelligence and not to condemn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u46	Minister, we all know that the number of new cancer patients is increasing, with 64,000 cases in 2013 and more than 68,000 cases in 2016 in Belgium. This is due not only to the ageing of the population, but also to the constant improvement of diagnostic methods. Of the two months of confinement, approximately 11,000 cases should have been recorded. However, according to the first estimates, almost half would not have been detected. Of course, it is necessary to make up for this delay, but human resources are a question. In cancer services, the staff is not plethora. A large number of patients will come back. We're gonna have to deal with it. Treatments are likely to be heavier, as tumours are likely to be further developed. Worse, some patients may be at an unhealable stage. Thanks to medical progress and early diagnosis, more patients survive cancer. It is therefore important to accompany and guide them in this period after treatment. At this level, there are still measures to be taken because 42% of Belgians believe that post-cancer preparation is far from sufficient. In fact, there are still shortcomings in this management. More than half of the patients felt abandoned after the end of their treatment. Some say they still have psychological or physical consequences (80%). They also highlight the financial implications and the professional difficulties they face. Some have even had to stop their activity completely. Minister, in 2008, a comprehensive cancer plan was launched to address, among other things, all of these concerns. Where are we today? Are new measures envisaged? Could legislation be simplified to facilitate the socio-professional reintegration of oncological patients? As cancer is a public health priority, what are you planning to put in place in the face of a pressing need for accompaniment after such a disease? What measures are you going to put in place to anticipate this cancer rebound after containment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u47	Mrs Tillieux, you were very clear-sighted in February to ask these questions. But in fact that's not the question you asked. You're asking me here to improvise. It's hard!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u48	Minister, it is necessary to adapt the issue to the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u49	Yes. All questions can be adapted if new elements appear. But here, you didn't tell me you were going to update it. But there's no problem. I'll try to answer you. However, I find it unrespectful for the work of my administration and my firm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u50	If you wish, stay with your expected answer and I will repeat a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u51	No, it's fine! No measure or action in the 2008-2012 cancer plan concerned follow-up care or social, psychological and occupational rehabilitation. Only one action – Action 19 – proposed piloting a project for functional revalidation after breast cancer. The legislation in force concerning the authorized activity provides for the possibility for the person to return to work subject to necessary adjustments both in terms of the content of the employment and in terms of the time worked, while being recognised as incapacity for work. Thus, the person retains all his rights in the event of a relapse or receives a sickness benefit combined with a working wage. Regulation on the reintegration of the worker absent due to long-term illness in 2017 therefore seems to bear fruit: the number of applications for the start of reintegration journeys has increased. I also pay attention to the specific problems of this group of patients. I have taken several initiatives. I asked the Knowledge Centre for a study to keep cancer patients in Belgium at work. The final report of this study will be available in both languages in early fall. It is currently being reviewed by the staff of the Knowledge Centre and still needs to be translated. The study on cancer and work among self-employed workers, led by Dr. Elke Van Hoof, is in the data collection phase. Results are not yet available. This study is one of the first in Europe to explicitly focus on this target group. A quantitative and qualitative survey is carried out among self-employed workers on their perception of cancer as self-employed. This study is co-financed by the Centre for the Knowledge of Incapacity for Work and the Foundation against Cancer. There is also structural cooperation with the social partners depending on the collection of data. We have a partnership with Pink Ribbon. In collaboration with Pink Ribbon and our legal department, brochures have been developed for self-employed employees and employers. We also organized a congress focusing on labour market participation. We have succeeded in bringing together all the parties involved in all sectors. We will continue this collaboration in the future. We also decided to focus on the care sector, based on Dr. Desiron's study commissioned by the Knowledge Centre. Finally, the Belgian Cancer Barometer is being developed, in collaboration with the Cancer Foundation, the Sciensano Cancer Centre, the Cancer Registry, the College of Oncology and the KCE. It will identify gaps, needs and priorities for general political action based on evidence. Physical monitoring is necessary, as is accompaniment. This aspect is well framed. We have also taken initiatives to extend and reimburse post-cancer consultations. The quality of life has sometimes changed in such circumstances. Doubts may arise, as well as difficulties in accepting the extent of the disease, both in family, professional or social terms. Indeed, the disease greatly changes the patients it has hit. That's why a follow-up was developed in collaboration with my firm and cancer professionals. To this end, we have decided to invest in studies and contacts with the patients concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for the clarification you have given me and, above all, for your interest in people with cancer. As you say, when they have passed the test of illness and treatment that can be extremely heavy, causing fears and anxiety, there can be a severe psychological injury, with consequences that are difficult to bear. Therefore, I fully share your desire to better support patients, including through post-cancer consultations, by extending them to answer all questions and to better guide people in doubt. In this way, they will be reassured and able to regain more serenity, including in their professional life. I see you have contacts. You know our always positive appreciation when you work in agreement with the field and representative associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u53	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian Brain Council has estimated the societal cost of migraines at EUR 985 million per year. Indeed, 90% of people with migraines indicate that they cannot work or function when they have a migraine episode. This represents 1,650,000 working days lost each year in Belgium. That is why I think this is an important issue to address. Beyond the usual painkillers, new preventive treatments are being developed to meet the needs of patients. There are three treatments: Aimovig, Ajovy, Emgality, for which there appears to be no fundamental difference in both efficacy and tolerance. Indeed, these are the best studied and easiest to use because they are given by monthly subcutaneous injection. At the beginning of January, you confirmed that the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products gave a negative opinion, successively in 2018 and 2019, on the reimbursement of the Aimovig produced by Novartis. Another claim for reimbursement was submitted for Ajovy by Teva Pharma Belgium. Minister, the accessibility of these preventive treatments is paramount for patients with migraines. In view of the fact that Aimovig has failed to pay back, we fear that the steps taken for its counterparts will go in the same direction. How do you intend to deal with these new claims? What is the status of the Ajovy refund file? In the long run, will it be refundable? More generally, given the societal cost of migraines, do you intend to take specific measures to help patients with migraines?.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u54	Mrs Tillieux, as you mentioned, two procedures for applying for inclusion on the list of eligible specialities for Aimovig have already been carried out and finalized. In both proceedings, the Commission for the Refund of Medicinal Products (CRM) did not formulate a reasoned position by a two-thirds majority. In September 2018, Novartis submitted a dossier to CRM for admission to the 70 mg refund of Aimovig. Following the MRC's assessment of the application, the possibility of concluding an agreement between INAMI and Novartis for the temporary inclusion of the medicinal product in the list of proprietary medicinal products was examined. Following the negotiations, an agreement could not be reached with Novartis for the temporary admission of Aimovig 70 mg. On the basis of the CRM analysis, it was found that the cost of health insurance per patient is too high and that there are a number of significant uncertainties related to this medicine, in particular as regards the potential budgetary impact and the added value of medicines in the target population proposed by the firm. In March 2019, Novartis submitted a new dossier to CRM for admission to the Aimovig 140 mg refund. This case was also the subject of negotiations with the firms for the conclusion of an agreement between INAMI and Novartis. The negotiating working group reached the same conclusions as in the negotiations on Aimovig 70 mg and agreement could not be reached with Novartis on the temporary admission to reimbursement of Aimovig 140 mg. A third procedure for admission to reimbursement of Aimovig is currently under way. Indeed, at the end of November 2019, Novartis submitted a new dossier to CRM for this specialty for both the 70 mg and 140 mg assays. As this case is still under way, I am not in a position to provide you with information on this procedure at this stage. So I cannot give you any information during the current procedure, as I am not kept informed. You mention Ajovy in your mail, I can inform you that at the end of 2019, Teva Pharma Belgium also filed with the CRM an application for registration on the list of refundable specialties for Ajovy. This file is also under way. With regard to specific measures to assist patients with migraines, there are already several medicines reimbursed for this purpose. Most of these drugs are, like Ajovy, preventive treatments to prevent a crisis. Propranolol, metoprolol and topiramate medicines, among others, are reimbursed. For more severe forms of migraines that do not respond to other therapies, Botox is also recently reimbursed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u55	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, thank you for being very thorough on the issues. So these are two files that are still under way, do you have any deadlines? Is there a deadline, a timing? It seems that this is not the case. We will come back to you to question you in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tillieux. That concludes our oral questions to the minister. We are going to have a topical debate on the crisis of VOCID-19. Minister De Backer just arrived. Ministers are available until 6:00 p.m., if I am not mistaken. According to my figures, 65 questions are addressed to Mrs De Block and 15 questions to Mr. Backer. We will follow our procedure and give one speaking time per group. The speaking time for the replies will depend on the response time of the ministers. As a reminder, we will give 8 minutes to groups of 3 MPs, 5 minutes to groups of 2 MPs and 3 minutes to groups of 1 MP.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u57	Madame Minister, The Economist Intelligence Unit, the study bureau of "The Economist Group," published a white paper on the approach of 21 OECD countries to the corona crisis. An index was developed which brought together several factors. On the one hand, this index contains factors related to a good approach to the epidemic (number of tests, the ability to continue to provide nonCovid-related concerns and over-mortality), on the other hand, a number of inherent risk factors are scaled up (population size of 65-plussers, prevalence of overweight and intensity of international traffic).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u58	I have a number of additional questions, particularly addressed to Minister De Block. Madam Secretary, there have recently been no daily updates of the contagion rates. There are weekly averages. It is explained that this is done to level out the weekend effect and to get a better picture. However, this means that the signal is picked up more slowly in the event of an increase in the number of infections. Experts will see a possible increase, but this is less obvious to the population. That is not good for the public's awareness. Do you think it would be useful to recreate the daily figures? Which figures are presented on the website of Sciensano exactly? After all, I hear Dr. Vlieghe talking about more than 130 infections, but I do not find that figure directly reflected in the raw data displayed on the website of Sciensano. What dates exactly are those? The number of infections seems to be rising a bit. Is there a view of the nature of the infections? Is this about infections that we didn't detect before? Is this about infections in people who show no symptoms? How should we interpret that number? Is this also being effectively investigated? I also hear that the database is apparently working slowly and that it will not be fixed until the end of August 2020, which seems to me to be rather late. After all, the summer holiday is already over. We are also, of course, counting on schools to be reopened in September 2020 and the economy to be able to reboot as effectively as possible. In short, we hope that the situation will be under control again. We must not mess up this restart by being lax during the holiday period. Will you insist that the problem with the database be dealt with more quickly? I also have a question about the orange and red zones abroad. The advice and guidelines in this area have changed again. I find it difficult for the doctors to follow it and that they start sighing when new directives come into force. We must ensure that we do not lose the support of doctors and that we get them all along with the directives. How should we interpret this? Will the fact that someone on holiday in a red area be able to sit on the same plane as someone on holiday in a green area be taken into account? How do we find out? Are measures taken in this context? In terms of detecting local outbreaks, there is apparently still some work to be done. When I asked you about this last week, the control tower was not yet fully operational. When can we expect that? I heard an official in charge of the database speaking on the radio this morning about case managers. Is that project worked out? At what level will it be controlled? Finally, are we ready to place certain municipalities in lockdown, if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u59	Madam Secretary,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u60	Mr Minister, Madam Minister, I will come to the questions I would like to deal with with you. The first question concerns vaccination against COVID-19 in combination with the flu vaccine. Where is the European vaccination plan, to which you referred at previous committee meetings? What's the agreed key? What about the price agreements on this? Will our citizens have access to the vaccine? We have heard from a manufacturer of syringes that 400 million syringes have been bought by the United States. Is this right or not? Did you know about that? Do you expect there to be a shortage of syringes for the distribution and administration of the vaccine, once it is effectively ready? Will our citizens have sufficient syringes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u61	You're working on two vaccines. With regard to which vaccine do you ask if there will be enough syringes? Are you talking about the flu vaccine, which is already in production, or about the COVID-19 vaccine, which has not even been developed yet? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u62	I refer to the fact that the United States has purchased 400 million syringes from a Belgian producer for a possible COOVID-19 vaccine, which still has to be distributed. Are you aware of that? Will you investigate that? Will you take steps on that? I'll get the flu vaccine. Madam Secretary, it will indeed be very important to vaccinate our patients against the flu. The doctors also referred to this, recently in a publication. There are 2.9 million flu vaccines available for the Belgian market, as I heard this morning. There are 3 million patients at risk. Will you phase out the distribution of those vaccines, yes or no? We have also heard that the occupational health services have much larger applications for vaccination. Everyone knows that in companies both risk patients and non-risk patients work. Will you give a recommendation or a directive to ensure that vaccination is phased out, for the sake of the patients at risk and the people in care, the people who absolutely need to be vaccinated for the flu season, in the context of a possible second COOVID-19 infection wave? Are you prepared to vaccinate the risk groups before 15 November and to allow other people to be vaccinated after 15 November? Will you register both the vaccine against COVID-19 and the flu vaccine? This will be very important in the follow-up of patients to a new wave. Then I'll get to the tests. I have been told by general practitioners that once again there are no swabs available to perform nasopharyngeal tests. At the moment, they are given guidelines to take the test down the throat and then, with the same test, try again in the nose. Is this scientifically sound? It is distributed with an indication of the data of Sciensano. Are you aware of that? Will you accompany the GPs in those tests? After all, we have also heard that there is a great deal of concern among the general practitioners that there will not be enough tests in the autumn when people start to get sick and have a cold. Madam Secretary, I have a question about remdesivir. The EEA gave a favourable opinion. Will you proceed with an accelerated procedure to obtain brake desivir on the Belgian market? Have price agreements been made with the producer and a refund is provided for? Minister De Backer, regarding the ATP method for mouth masks, we have received reports from some producers, with whom you had initially placed orders and with whom you had agreed on the quality of the mouth masks. With the introduction of the ATP method, those agreements have changed. Mr Minister, were the producers aware of this? Are there any disputes with those producers? Were there any lottery mouth masks on the way to our country when the new ATP method entered into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u63	Madam Minister, with my question I come to a subject that we have discussed a number of times, particularly food after a corona contamination, to which you have already replied in detail. The Flemish Professional Association of Dietists does not feel heard in this file, whereas you said at a previous committee meeting that you had discussed this with the Professional Association of Dietists. That is why I come back to the model in the Netherlands, where a patient, apart from the follow-up by a rehabilitation center, receives within four days a visit to a dietician who together with the patient charts whether an adapted diet is needed during the rehabilitation period. This is proving to be a very good result. The Flemish Professional Association of Dietists would like to talk to you about this, but you will not get a hold of it in that area. Madam Secretary, are you open to that suggestion? How do you see things further? A question I tabled on Sunday is not included in the list of questions in this topical debate, but I would like to ask the question. The self-employed nurses could charge a corona supplement, but according to the RIZIV or due to a software problem it is still not possible for them. However, the self-employed nurses have been working for weeks in very difficult circumstances. They wonder where the file is stuck and how it is that they are still unable to charge the supplement. Mr Gijbels already mentioned the map of orange zones, which is the subject of a constant change in the opinion. First, it was stated that if you return from an orange zone, you will be advised to have a test carried out and quarantined, without obligation. Last night, that opinion was amended. Foreign Affairs is giving a different opinion than we have heard so far. The term "enhanced vigilance" is used in this context. Madam Secretary, could you clarify for us? It is no longer clear to me what the right advice is now. Over the last few days, I have been hearing a lot of concern about the increasing number of infections. Under the church tower it is said that this increase is caused by all those people who come back from abroad. I know that it is very difficult for us to identify where these infections occurred. On the radio I heard an interesting analysis this morning, stating that two weeks ago the last relaxations and also the summer holidays began, which may explain the current rise. Can that statement be substantiated? Is the cause of the increase known? Can there be any intervention where the infections increase? As far as the flu vaccine is concerned, I am adding my colleague, Mr Depooster. Are we taking into account the COVID effect? Will we have enough? If it takes six months to produce it, we're already too late if we're gonna rethink it. Is there enough order and can still be sent, if necessary? I have two specific questions for Mr De Backer. The self-employed nurses report that they still do not know how to get protection material out of the stock. It is not at all clear to them how that will be arranged for them. I also share the concern about testing, because I hear we would need up to 50,000 a day to control the second wave. Can we handle that in a changing landscape, where the whole world needs a lot of reagents? Is that what's going on this summer? How's that file coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u64	Mr. Chairman, I will ask questions Nos. 55007856C, 55007778C, 55007782C, 55007855C and 55007862C. Minister, I will start with the ability to screen for VOCID-19. The University of Liège estimates that it can set up an automated capacity of 50,000 to 60,000 tests per day on the basis of a Walloon supply chain. A level without equal to the world, which would allow to test the population of Wallonia every day. If the same centre appeared in Flanders, it would be the whole country that would be covered without problems. The sampling would no longer be naso-pharyngeal with a swab, as it is today, but would be based on a sample of saliva deposited in a suitable tube. There is no need, therefore, for qualified personnel. This self-sampling kit will at the same time, thanks to a dedicated liquid that will be delivered as soon as the tube is closed, also simplify the step of virus inactivation. In the end, this method will not only increase testing capacity, but also reduce costs. Minister, do you intend to use this screening capability? Will it be exploited and, if so, from when? What is planned for testing for summer holidays and the movement of European citizens? Are we ready to conduct massive screening if necessary? A full laboratory PCR test reimbursed by INAMI amounts to 48 euros, those of centres approved by the Federal Platform are 28 euros. How do you anticipate future costs of screening in the population? Madam Minister, as far as cross-border care is concerned, we have long known that European funds are investing to promote health mobility in cross-border areas. This has also been reflected in successive Interreg programmes. By way of example, of course, we can mention agreements between Belgium and the Netherlands, but also those with France. In this regard, have you noticed any problems related to access to care following the closure of borders? Have you objected to any implications for patients residing near borders? If so, what measures have been put in place? The accessibility of cross-border health structures – whether or not they are built in a carefully thought-out and concerted spirit of cooperation – meets needs not covered or insufficiently addressed by our national system and should therefore be preserved, regardless of the circumstances. Do you intend to implement measures to ensure the opening up of cross-border health areas in all circumstances? The different countries have not applied containment measures in the same way, how in these circumstances can this cooperation be guaranteed? Should we not arrive at a more integrated model of cross-border healthcare basins and go beyond the mere framework of cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u65	With regard to VOCID-19 medicines in particular, we know that the list of potential drugs against VOCID-19 continues to be reduced: after hydroxychloroquine, European clinical trials Solidarity and Discovery also abandoned lopinavir/ritonavir treatment, which was found to be ineffective and suspected of adverse reactions. For the time being, none of them have shown remarkable efficiency. Remdesvir was granted a conditional marketing authorisation within the European Union on 3 July. It reduces – it seems – the length of recovery of hospitalized patients. Do you have any information about these medicines? Are they used in Belgium? If so, what are the returns? Are we going to anticipate trials for the treatment of VOCID-19 again? Are we going to anticipate trials for the treatment of VOCID-19 again? The last question concerns the implementation of the mobile monitoring application, which has a legal basis today. Will a public procurement be launched for the development of the application? At the initiative of which minister or entity? To what extent will federated entities be associated? Who will evaluate the various proposals submitted? What guarantees of independence and transparency will surround the choice of the developer of the application to avoid conflicts of interest? What is the budget for the development of the application? Which department or entity? Will there be a test phase for the application?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u66	Minister, once again, our country confirms its role as a hub for the development of a vaccine against VOCID-19. Indeed, the pharmaceutical group AstraZeneca announced that the active substance of its future vaccine against coronavirus would be produced by the French company Novasep at its Belgian site in Seneffe, located in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u67	Madam Minister, according to a report by the task force in charge of the supply of equipment for the fight against coronavirus, Belgium has applied to manage the strategic stock of masks in all the countries of the European Union. The Belgian application to manage the strategic stock was submitted on 5 June. According to the press, our country has been asked by the European Union. Can you tell us more about this application? Why did you deposit it when you know the various polemics related to masks in our country, specifically the one regarding the management of our strategic stocks? When will the decision of the European Union be notified?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u68	Dentists would receive corona support up to 4000€/month, which we read in the newspaper of 22/6. This support comes from the fact that dentists have had to pay a lot of costs for protective equipment to protect themselves and the patient against covid19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u69	Mr President, I should like to apologize to my colleague Mr Creyelman. He's following the defense commission. He asks for his questions to be converted into written questions. Madam Minister, Flanders and Wallonia are apparently already monitoring the detection of COOVID-19 in wastewater, but I have read that Sciensano wants to do the same. I wonder whether there will be duplication of work, or will the data of Flanders and Wallonia be used by Sciensano? How's that gonna happen? Will only COVID-19 be checked? Can we learn from countries where this is already happening, such as France, Switzerland, Italy, the Netherlands, the United States and Australia? I also have a question about the vaccine. In early July, the biotech company Ziphius Therapeutics announced in De Tijd that it would have a vaccine by autumn 2021. Are you in contact with this Flemish company? If not, why not? What contacts does the government possibly have with other companies? If you have contacts, is there an option on certain orders or price agreements? How far is this company compared to other companies in the rat race to a vaccine? I also have a question about disinfecting hand gels. Are there any checks on toxic substances in there? Will you have that checked after all? Will you instruct DG 5 to carry out random checks on the composition and presence of harmful substances? I'm thinking about BPA or BPS, but it could be others. The containers containing these gels should also be checked for the presence of harmful substances. If these gels are meant to fight COVID-19, they should be at least virucides. Are all the gels that are on the market not only antibacterial gels but also virucides? Then I have a question about corona support for dentists and other care providers. Dentists would receive 4,000 euros per month, other healthcare providers would receive an additional 2.5 euros per consultation, which would amount to 500 euros per month. What's the big difference? Are those extras to be borne by the RIZIV? What is the pot of remaining RIZIV budgets referred to by the healthcare providers? With regard to the retroactive recovery of the corona allowance from self-employed care providers, why do you wish to recover it? Why wasn't that discussed? A decision has already been taken for self-employed nurses. Why wasn't there a sit-down with the other self-employed care providers? When will that happen? Or did that happen in the meantime? My question was tabled on 21 June. If it's already done, can you tell us about it? Will you use the remaining RIZIV budgets to increase the reimbursement of benefits to patients with a concession for the necessary additional protective materials? My next question concerns a note from the Working Party on Deficiencies. There was a "solidarity stock." Does it contain what you call the "rotating stock" or the strategic stock? Is the report ready yet? Can we look at the report, and if so when? I also got a question from physicists. Apparently, not all care professions are prepared for a second wave. The kinesis complain that there is not enough protective material for them. They wonder why protection material is purchased for one care profession and not for the other. Who's putting this list together? Based on what criteria does this happen? Will you complete the list with 'forgotten' healthcare professions? Finally, the hospitals have started again with non-urgent interventions for some time. Do you have a visual on the state of play? We hear that this is not going so smoothly and that only 70% of these non-urgent interventions are being carried out, even less so in some hospitals. Do you have a view on this and can you explain it to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u70	Mrs Sneppe, Mr Creyelman's questions cannot be translated into written questions because this is a topical debate. The questions that are not asked will become without object. However, as soon as your colleague comes back in, he can still ask his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u71	Minister, every year at the dawn of winter, the flu appears. This viral disease can have serious consequences. The vaccine should be repeated as the virus evolves. While this vaccine is not 100% effective, it is largely involved in preventing possible complications. Unfortunately, vaccination of at-risk groups in Belgium is still insufficient, although every year it is subject to increased surveillance. In 2019, a study conducted by KCE stated that the vaccination of older people had fallen steadily over the past eight years and remained well below the WHO target (75%). In May 2020, the Supreme Council of Health issued an opinion on the winter influenza vaccination 2020-2021. In the context of the current pandemic, we must pay particular attention to it. In view of the influenza epidemics of previous years and the fulcruming and acute peak of the VOCID-19 pandemic observed at the end of this winter 2020, analyses indicate potentially serious consequences if the influenza season were to coincide with a new peak. In this regard, the Higher Council of Health makes three recommendations: Category A vaccination with a view to potentially reducing the occupancy of hospital beds. These include people at risk and people living in their homes; vaccination of health care personnel to ensure their availability but also to protect patients indirectly; and vaccination of category B, i.e. persons aged 50-64. More than ever, prevention of seasonal influenza will play a fundamental role, with the aim of avoiding the occupation of too many hospital beds at the same time and thus saturating our hospitals. Moreover, it seems that the Association of Belgian Pharmacists fears a shortage of vaccines by the end of this year. Minister, how will these recommendations be implemented on the ground? What measures are envisaged to encourage these target audiences to be vaccinated specifically this year? Is an awareness campaign planned with your counterparts in the federated entities? Should we fear a shortage of vaccines this year? How can we anticipate this risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u72	Madam Minister, Minister, we have been faced with the increasing number of infections for some time now. Fortunately, we do not yet see this increase in the number of hospitalizations or deaths. This is likely to be due to the age group in which the most increases occur, i.e. the 20 to 59 year olds, who are less at risk. I have the impression that the increase is due to a number of more local outbreaks, especially in Antwerp, Limburg and Liège. You have already said today that these figures must be followed very closely, Madam Minister. What is your estimate of the increase in the number of infections? Is it true that this is mainly about a number of local outbreaks? What is the reason for the increase, for example in Antwerp? Are the outbreaks occurring in the nightlife or the business world? Tomorrow, the National Security Council will meet again. Is there any possibility of intertwining if the figures continue to rise, either locally or nationally?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u73	Madam Minister, Minister, we are indeed seeing an increase in the number of infections, including among young people. For the shift in age there are certainly explanations, but the bottomline remains that the numbers increase. What is your assessment of the further evolution of this pandemic based on the knowledge that you are undoubtedly being played by the experts? What measures will be taken now? I refer to our discussion last week about the chaos of travel. Meanwhile, I read that there's also confusion about dance parties. In what way would you both manage that rise? Steven Van Gucht has announced his intention to make an inventory of the cluster infections. It would give us more information about the strength of the virus and its spread. This morning, Mr Robben gave an insight into the ICT support that should make this inventory possible. Countries such as Japan and France have been working on this for a long time and are much more advanced. Aren't we late? What are your next actions in this regard? I would like to refer to my questions. 55007386C, 55007540C, 55007686C, 55007687C, 55007801C and 55007273C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u74	I now come to my question No. 55007801C on medically assisted reproduction, to which I would like to make a very specific point. Inequalities have arisen between the different types of treatment. For a number of categories there is no authorisation for the six-month extension, for a number of other categories or again. This leads to unequal treatment. This is how some women stopped their treatment during the corona crisis. They wonder what will happen next. Will there be a six-month extension for them? That is a very important question. The answer to this can or cannot reassure many people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u75	I refer to my written question No. 55007868C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u76	I also had a question about the methodology. We've been looking at averages for weeks now. We've been told for weeks that they're falling. What are you looking at to decide whether or not something is problematic? On July 16, in two days, the news will be that there is a sharp increase, due to the methodology used. I hope you're not looking at the averages, but what are you looking at? In three days, there were about 400 infections. In some parts of the world one goes into lockdown when one sees 120 infections on a few days. We have already come too late in everything in this crisis. Yesterday, in another parliament, it appeared that the experts had already called in January to take care of mouth masks, more than a month and a half before the first action was taken. What are you looking at to detect the problems? What do you know about the local outbreaks very specifically at the moment? If something's wrong now, will we know? How do you determine that? How many infections does the situation become problematic? Everyone's talking about the second wave. We know from the first wave that it killed 10,000 people and caused EUR 50 billion in economic costs. So it is rather important that we know this time quickly that it goes wrong, if it goes wrong. The numbers of the last few days are bad, but they've drowned in the averages. I hope you're looking at something else to know if it's missing. For what? Isn't that already the case at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u77	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, I would like to discuss several aspects with you, starting with the evolution of the pandemic. Indeed, the figures are challenging and reveal a 2% increase in the number of cases, or should I rather say the number of people for whom the test is positive? The figures also show a significant increase in the rate of reproduction of the virus, as it has been re-edited above one. This is a worrying finding, knowing that it is below one that one manages to control the evolution of the virus. So we are no longer in such a situation. The calls from scientists are clear. The latter are very worried. Indeed, it appears once again that we are not ready today to face a second wave or major clusters. A study carried out in the United Kingdom postulates that the country will have reached a reproductive rate equivalent to 1.7% by September, a situation which will likely extend to other European countries. These are important signals, so we have to ask ourselves the right questions. On the one hand, we observe a relaxation of the barrier gestures, which explains why the mask was finally imposed in all closed public places. I believe that other countries are carrying out much more intensive poster campaigns in this regard in order to underline the need to hammer the message through strong images in large areas and shopping centres. The tracing of contacts, however, remains insufficient at the present time. Not only has the digital tracking system not yet been in place, although it could have been in place for months, but human tracing also remains insufficient. I have tabled several questions on the figures and I hope that you will answer them in concrete terms. Finally, there are also questions about the threat of testing shortages, both at the reagent level and at the laboratory capacity level. The second aspect I would like to address is tourism. Over the last few weeks, we have witnessed a real crackdown, the different levels of power constantly turning the ball away. Today there are questions about Belgian tourists, but also about foreign tourists entering our country. As far as Belgian tourists are concerned, general practitioners tell me that they have refused tests and that there is a lack of clear guidelines on this subject. In addition, today we have changed the rules adopted just three days ago for the orange areas. Do we finally have instructions in all languages – including English – for tourists arriving in our country? What do we plan for foreign tourists from risk areas? Are they tested, even if they are asymptomatic? Are the tests mandatory and are they actually carried out? Who follows foreign tourists who enter Belgium from an area at risk? Finally, by whom is the care carried out of asymptomatic tourists? The third part concerns patients, whether or not they have been tested positive for VOCID-19. Have the screenings resumed, including oncological follow-up? Are admission indicators for heart attacks and strokes better, as it would appear that a number of patients clearly did not consult in time? I would also like to discuss with you the management of VOCID patients who have a chronic condition that has not been sufficiently taken into account so far. Is it not important to put in place a special arrangement for them? Minister, I also asked you a question about the compensation for the financial loss suffered by hospitals as a result of the outbreak of VOCID-19. What's the status of the discussions? What's the calendar? What about private insurance? Could you quickly reassure hospitals, caregivers and patients? This is obviously an important issue for all three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u78	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, I have addressed a number of questions to you, including one relating to the famous masks sent by the Defence. Minister, I sent it to your office and you sent it to the office of your colleague, Minister Goffin. I regret this because I believe that from the moment you have taken on the role of coordinating everything concerning protective medical equipment, it is your role to ensure that these masks are of good quality. So I'll be questioning Mr. Goffin tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u79	I would also like to take advantage of this topical debate to ask you first of all about the testing of asymptomatic people. Sciensano's figures indicate that almost three quarters of residents tested positive for VOCID-19 in nursing homes had no symptoms. This means that by testing only those with symptoms, we eventually did not detect three-quarters of those who were infected and should have been excluded. Therefore, do you not think that we should launch today a massive screening campaign, as is required by many experts and as is the case in France, in order to be able to identify, trace and isolate asymptomatic carriers? At present, we do not exceed the 10,000 tests per day, which is well below the testing capacity we have. Don't you think that this testing capability would make it possible to launch such a campaign? So why not launch it today, given the risk of a second wave due to departures and holiday returns? If not, is there any plans to increase the tests further? Under what conditions could these tests be reimbursed, especially for the lowest income? I'm going to the mask that I want to ask you about. We are obviously pleased that the decision to make it mandatory in closed public places has been taken. This is an appeal that I made to the Prime Minister as early as April 7, 2020 in plenary. Our mayors had also taken the initiative to take this step in their respective communes. However, I am reminded that there are requests for medical exemptions. Without prejudging the legitimacy of these requests, I would have liked to have your opinion, Madam Minister, on this. I am thinking among other things of asthmatic people, pregnant women or claustrophobic people who choke under their masks. On the other hand, I would like to take stock of the tracing with you. This is important at a time when the number of cases detected is increasing by an average of 11% per day, especially in view of holiday returns. Can you tell us whether you now have an overview of the results obtained in the different cells set up by the Regions? With what conclusions? Is it not necessary to make citizens more aware of the need to take note of their contacts? How is cooperation with the different countries in which Belgian holidaymakers will travel, but also with the countries of origin of tourists, taking place? What about the development of mobile application in terms of public procurement and respect for the rules on the right to privacy? We have voted for a motion for a resolution that sets out a whole series of benchmarks. I would therefore like to have the assurance that today these beacons can be respected. Do you also study alternatives to mobile application? Finally, I would like to conclude with the question of persons returning from areas classified as red. Is it planned that the forms made available to citizens returning from these red zones will be drawn up, not only in English as is already the case today, but also in the three national languages? Can you tell us if a systematic testing of people returning from abroad is planned? If so, what is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u80	Mr Rigot, I think your group's speaking time was exhausted, but I do give you a minute to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u81	Mr President, he was not exhausted at all. There were more than three minutes left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u82	So my memory is failing. Mr Rigot, if you wish to speak, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u83	Mr President, I will be brief. I have no doubt that many comments have already been made. I refer to the written text of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u84	I would just like to stress, like my colleague Mrs Rohonyi, that I hear Mr Rohonyi's argument. From Backer to the Defence level. For me, this was not the market as such, but the use that was going to be made of it and the beneficiary that is the citizen. I would have liked this to be discussed here in the Committee on Health, but we will therefore put it tomorrow in the Committee on Defence. I want to remind you of the importance of controls. A few weeks ago, people were talking about the quality of masks for citizens, lack of control, lack of compliance and lack of assurance. Unjustified price differences between pharmacies and department stores were also discussed. And then, today, the FFP2s raise a lot of questions as well as a lot of concerns about their compliance and the possibility of endangering caregivers. Minister, I therefore hope to get all the necessary appeasements and answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u85	Mr President, I will not be very long. Minister, the symptoms of some patients with VOCID-19 did not require hospitalization. Yet, many of these people's testimonies now "gods" report persistent symptoms, when they were previously in good health. These include chest pain, fever, fatigue or difficulty breathing. These recurrent manifestations of the disease greatly disrupt their daily lives and prevent them from returning to normal life. In the face of their distress, the medical profession seems helpless. Indeed, some explain that the duration of their recovery is variable, so they do not have a clear temporal perspective as to a return to their former physical form. Minister, what information can you give us about these patients? Have any research been undertaken? Is sustainable degradation of their health possible? What kind of support are they offered?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u86	Madam Secretary, dexamethasone is an anti-inflammatory in the family of the steroids and could reduce the mortality of those most affected by COVID-19 by a third. The study is part of the great RECOVERY Trial. The medicine has been in existence for 50 years and has been used in the treatment of rheumatism and is now used in the treatment of cancer. COVID-19 patients suffer from oxygen deficiency and inflammation is the problem there. The overdrive of the immune system could be slowed down with dexamethasone. It is not expensive, available on the market and can be used immediately. It is produced by several producers, including Novartis, who market it under different names. The BVAS has already called for the drug not to be bought massively. Mr Meyfroidt fears a run on the cure. In the meantime, is there any more insight into the scientific results? They were not published through peer-reviewed scientific journals, but through press releases. What's your evaluation of that? In the meantime, is there an increase in the sales of the medicine in Belgium? What are the numbers? Who produces the product and who markets it in Belgium? A growing number of COVID-19 patients experience a growing number of health complaints after a certain period, months after their first symptom of COVID-19. This includes fatigue, shortness of breath, headache, rash, etc. Moreover, many patients recover very difficult and suffer from long-term complaints. In a study by Maastricht University, knowledge centre Ciro, the Dutch Long Fund and Hasselt University, 1,600 patients were questioned. All had a mild form of COVID-19 and were not hospitalized. The researchers indicate that we must prevent this group of patients, who have often had no aftercare, from getting between ship and shore. A growing number of people with persistent long-term complaints also report that they do not feel recognized in an online campaign. So it's about corona patients with long-term complaints. After the summer, the researchers want to do their research again to see if those complaints persist. Are you aware of the situation? I suppose so. Are you aware of the research and the related online campaign, via Facebook? What initiatives or measures will you take to better support this group of patients? My third question concerns the thirteen-measure action plan drawn up by the Walloon government. He will have to ensure, among other things, that the reception facilities are better equipped in the face of a possible second wave of the coronavirus. Mobile multidisciplinary teams will be set up to assist those structures that need them. In addition, the GEES noted in its last report that a federal action plan should also be developed for this purpose. The question of the respective powers of the Regions and the federal government is of course raised. What is the status of the federal action plan? Why is it still not operational? What measures have you taken or intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u87	The ministers will have 45 minutes to speak. We'll see if we can get more time. I have to make sure there's plenty of time left for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u88	Mr President, there were many questions. So we will try to respond as best we can. I have organised my answers through a number of themes, which I believe can shed light on the various questions raised by the various groups. I start more generally and then go into some more specific questions. I'll start with the testing and the testing capacity. We've been working hard on that for the past few months. At the moment we have achieved a capacity of 45,000 tests thanks to clinical laboratories along with the federal platform. Operationally, that's now screwed back a little bit. We still run 10,000 to 15,000 tests a day. Among them is only a small number of positive cases: 100 to 150 per day. Unfortunately, there has been an increase in recent days. The test capacity remains, of course, essential. A few weeks ago, we asked Sciensano to calculate what test capacity we will need this autumn. With COVID-19 you have a clinical diagnosis that is very similar to that of other viral respiratory infections. About six to eight weeks ago, Sciensano made that exercise. This led to the need for about 50,000 tests a day, up to 70,000 on some days. For this, a huge logistics operation must be set up. It is intended that the capacity built up through the federal platform, which has absolutely proven its usefulness at the height of the crisis, can be transferred to the existing clinical laboratories. With those classic labs, a number of university labs and a number of private players, and with the Clinical Biology Committee, we have set up an exercise to see exactly what capacity they can reserve specifically for COVID-19 by September. This is pure PCR capability. At the same time, we have also organised round tables to have contacts with suppliers of reagents, wipers and machines. We asked them the same question: how many can come to Belgium by September to help increase capacity? The clinical labs got that question three weeks ago. They will have to take steps in the near future to achieve the goal of 50,000 tests per day. The responsibility for this lies with the labs themselves, they need to expand the capacity. However, the RIZIV has promised that investment budgets can be matched and that consideration can be given to how the additional OPEX can be met. For example, additional staff are needed. We have also talked about the various other technologies that can be used to increase test capacity. One of the elements that remains interesting to us is saliva, self-collection, next gen sequencing, pooling tests. The figure put forward by the University of Liège speaks of 25 or 30 000 tests per day but these are pooling tests, not individual ones. It is therefore necessary to realize that at that time, one loses the sensitivity of the test in particular. Pooling can occur in times of pandemic when few people are infected, but if there is growth again, each pool will be positive and the whole pool will have to be tested, which makes no sense anymore. We are therefore in the process of discussing with many interlocutors around the table, including the INAMI, the labs, the clinical biology commission, the Reference Centre which must coordinate the efforts of the various intra-mural and extra-mural labs... So we have been meeting for several weeks to discuss this problem and how to solve it. There will not be a single option to have capacity in September. We will have to work in parallel on different solutions. One of the elements is this tube developed in Liège, containing a virus inactivation reagent. Can it be used on all machines for example? Some machines cannot work with this type of reagent, others well. All these aspects are being examined for the time being. We're talking to the clinical biology commission to make sure we have all the key elements in our hands. Of course, there is also a link to the general practitioners. We'll have to see how the samples are taken. Again, are there any alternative options or should we confine ourselves to erasers and classical sampling by nose and throat? The classic clinical labs must be responsible for giving the wipers. If there's any shortage, we need to talk to the clinical labs about that. I can't get those signals. We have always said that if there were shortages in hospitals, for example, emergency deliveries of erasers could happen. That exercise is in progress at the FPS Public Health, so we can have those conversations. Do you want general practitioners to take those samples? Can nurses be trained for this? Can labs vouch for that? How should we organize the triage points? This exercise is also in full swing, in order to effectively achieve the capacity of 50,000 to 70,000 tests together. A discussion is being held about who we will test now. I'm hearing about massive testing, but we need to know that we're already testing a lot. We test two to four times as much as the Netherlands, France or Germany. You need to see the numbers available on Our World in Data. It shows the number of tests performed every day. From the beginning of the crisis, Belgium ranks among the top 10 countries. We are also looking at how to secure the system: who will take the samples, what about the connectivity between the laboratories? If a lab is in short supply, for example, can it send samples to another lab to get this type of results as quickly as possible? All these key elements have been under discussion for weeks with the Clinical Biology Commission. Every time we've solved a problem, there are several other problems, but we're going to do it, I'm sure. We are also discussing a click, namely how best to use the tests. Here too, a decision must be made. For example, I do not think it is a good idea to use hospital capacity to test footballers at the moment; it is better to build up a little strategic stock for the autumn. Rather, we need to look at how we can help hospitals and labs to build up sufficient testing capacity. As I said, the government is committed to releasing a piece of investment budget to make concessions through the RIZIV. We also have contacts with suppliers to push them to do the maximum for our labs. For example, a number of labs have already doubled capacity in recent weeks and months thanks to our interventions. In this respect, therefore, we are working very well together at the moment, and we do not exclude any innovative or new application a priori. The report is of course also an interesting and important aspect: not only the coding of the steel, but also the reporting of the result. Over the last few months, we have worked very hard to shorten time. I requested the latest figures: 90% of the test results of the samples arrive within 24 hours, 95% within 48 hours. This is in line with what we see in the large countries and in our neighbouring countries, which are also testing a lot. So our turnaround time is a logical turnaround time. Remember that in the meantime 90% to 95% of the tests are done by the clinical labs themselves and no longer on the federal platform. The reporting within the Sciensano database is on one side towards the contact tracing, which should go as soon as possible. Today, this system works as a push one pushes the results once a day to the call centers, but one is now updating, which constantly sends data towards the call centers and takes less time. These discussions are taking place in the Inter-Federal Committee, where the regions are working with us to improve this. Problems with the consolidation of the results often have to do with the fact that the reporting by some laboratories or hospitals to the central database of Sciensano is sometimes delayed. Also there we push everyone to report as quickly and as clearly as possible. That's necessary, because Sciensano's database is used to do cluster analysis and to find out where infections occurred. The cooperation agreement will, of course, help us to do so. A few weeks ago, the Council of State pressed us with the facts about this: that is a regional competence. In a very short time, therefore, the regions and communities have made a cooperation agreement. Meanwhile, we have published a KB that forms the legal basis of the database. It is now working, but it will need to be strengthened in the coming weeks. We will, of course, also have to take into account the comments of the Data Protection Authority and the new opinion of the Council of State. However, the cooperation agreement is an essential tool for providing a legal basis so that the regions and communities can do the contact research. The adaptation of the cooperation agreement will therefore have to be brought to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. Meanwhile, Sciensano hasn't been idle. Last week we received an update from Sciensano on where cluster detection and cluster analysis now stand. This is done at the level of the municipalities and of the collections. In this respect too, Sciensano is very dependent on the follow-up and information provided by regional health inspectors. It is those inspectors who are responsible at regional level for cluster detection and reporting. If an anomaly is detected in reverse on the basis of test results, a signal will naturally be sent to the regional authorities and health inspectors, who will then be able to work on it. Meanwhile, about 20 alarms were sent. They shall be examined in greater detail. So far there are no large fireplaces or they could be reduced to a specific fireplace, such as a collectivity. The increasing number of infections will, of course, require extra attention in the coming days and weeks, so that regional health inspectors can play very briefly on the ball and respond quickly to the signal that Sciensano gives on the basis of positive tests, so that the cause of infection can be quickly identified. Protocols which already exist for schools and collections at the regional level will apply in this context. For companies, this is discussed with the health professionals. Those links are all present today at the regional level, as far as I have been informed. There were also very technical questions about Mrs Gijbels' serological tests, which are not available at the moment. I indicated in the government last week that there is a very strong and moving understanding of serology. At the end of March and in April 2020 they were convinced that serology could play a very important role in the exit and that it had to be detected massively. However, it appears that the production of antibodies in several patients is very variable and that it is not always clear whether the body retains those antibodies. Some studies by Sciensano indicate that these substances remain present for a number of months. Other studies contradict that. So we need to keep a close eye on how serology can continue to play a role. Also what exactly is detected and how it is detected, so the type of tests, will become important. Is it about IgG, IgM, IgE or the T-Cell responses? There are several studies on this, including metastudies, that Sciensano is trying to follow this closely from my background. The results will depend very much on how serology might at some point re-enter the test strategy. Today, it does not play a role in individual diagnostics, although Sciensano makes it very clear in its recommendations that they could in some cases function as a kind of rattrapage and that they are applied in this way. In any case, we have assured ourselves of sufficient serological tests, should the views on this matter change again. There were also questions about the protective equipment. When the task force began, as in any other country, he was confronted with problems of obtaining protective equipment. The international market was very problematic and the task force began to work, checks were carried out on orders based on certificates, test reports and a visual inspection of the quality of the masks. We quickly realized that this was not enough in those market conditions, all the more so because the hospitals also had many questions about the quality of the material they had ordered and purchased. At the end of March, we decided to introduce a simplified test procedure, like the Netherlands, Spain and Germany. After all, the capacity of the accredited labs was completely full and two or three months had to wait for a test. A protocol was then drawn up for a relatively rapid validation test. We have asked SGS to run tests in the country of origin. There are test reports on the filtration rate, of accredited labs, which carried out the tests there according to the applicable standards and procedures. A new test was then carried out when the masks arrived in Belgium, the so-called ATP procedure. Suppliers who had to deliver to hospitals and other players and could not submit an accredited lab certificate were also invited to follow the ATP procedure. This was true of the large shipments that came through the airports, and for every order from the federal government and the task force. So not every mask that arrived in Belgium was tested according to that procedure, because some hospitals did tests themselves or relied on their supplier. It does apply to every mask purchased by the federal government. That's been tested on the spot, brought here and subjected to control tests. It wasn't until we were sure it was good masks that they were released. Our aim was therefore to carry out an additional check and to be able to distinguish good from bad masks very quickly, based on test protocols also used in the Netherlands, Spain and Germany. Different protocols can be followed. Two essential things always come back when one wants to follow a simplified procedure, namely filter penetration and the fit on the face. We had noticed that many of the labs that tested in the beginning looked mainly at the filter capacity and not so much at the fit. If a Chinese supplier has his mask tested in China, there is of course no problem with the fit, while that is the case for the fit for Western faces. We have tested the two cases in Belgium in the ATP procedure. We have prepared the procedure in collaboration with hospitals in Antwerp, Leuven and Jolimont. Among other things, experts were involved in prevention in order to find out what would be the best way. That's how the ATP procedure started. It was changed twice afterwards, beginning and end of May, to refine and strengthen them. That procedure worked because it made sure that a high percentage, at least two thirds, of the masks was refused. By the way, those weren't the federal government masks. At some point we have also allowed the hospitals that were ordering to use the ATP procedure if they had doubts about the quality of mouth masks. In fact, we have provided an additional quality control. In short, thanks to our procedure, many masks that may have been good on paper were removed from the market and the purchase procedure could be done correctly. I come back to some technical details mentioned in a report aired this weekend on the RTBF. We're really confident. I visited the participating laboratories again, with all the experts, in Leuven, in Ghent, in Jolimont, IDW. We are very confident that the procedure that we have put in place, from the beginning, with the tests carried out in China and the second tests in Belgium, is the right one. It is also used elsewhere. Only one of the laboratories where tests have been performed has a somewhat different protocol. There is a discussion between experts. But the protocol we have put in place, which we have kept by adapting it as it goes, has really helped to separate the right masks from the wrong masks. We have never put health care personnel at risk. On the contrary, we have introduced an additional test to be sure that the tests are conclusive. These masks provide sufficient protection. In my view, one of the key elements, also seen in other countries, is that the biggest problem is the adaptation of the mask to morphology. The filtration rate, often, was of good quality. The masks were divided into three categories: ATP OK, ATP type nose (which require the addition of an accessory on the nose) and ATP tape out (which require a fastening). These have never been distributed. We keep them in reserve in case, in the worst case, we no longer have a FFP2 mask and we have distributed the ATP OK masks. Here too, we are considering whether we are keeping them. The current strategic stock exceeds 20, 25 or 30 million, if not more, of good quality FFP2 masks. We have a sufficient strategic stock, much larger than the pre-existing strategic stock. I think that, thanks to this procedure, we have guaranteed with greater certainty that these FFP2 masks are of good quality. With regard to the masks that are sold, I would also like to refer to my colleague Mr Muylle. She oversees those surgical masks from the FPS Economy. The FAGG is also working on this. We have seen that there are differences in the quality of the masks, but it is covered by normal market surveillance to check the quality of the masks. If there are complaints, they will certainly be communicated. We have indeed also offered to be part of a joint procurement at European level. We have ordered 2.6 million FFP2 masks there. Of these, 500,000 have already been delivered. In the coming months, therefore, more than 2 million FFP2 masks will enter, which will form part of the strategic stock that Belgium is still building. At the same time, we have also applied for the RescEU programme. We were asked by the European Commission because of our central location and stock management, which happened in a good way during this crisis, and we participated in it. The negotiations are still ongoing. It is then a question of which types of protective equipment we will keep. The advantage is that we have a stock on Belgian territory and that we can draw from it if anything happens. At the same time, this also brings with it a great responsibility. If there were an outbreak somewhere else in Europe, we should be able to take on this distribution. We are now awaiting the evaluation of the European Commission. If it is positive, we will be able to start with it in the autumn. So we have created a large strategic stock, a rotating stock, which can be used in the event of a possible second wave or local shortages. That is not the same as the solidarity stock. That's an agreement between the sub-entities and the federal level. It's sealed by the RMG. It is also the RMG that is responsible for following up and implementing the chord. A solidarity stock is maintained, with a certain percentage of purchases, which can be distributed, if necessary, between the different communities, regions and the federal level in the event of an emergency. Let me give you one example. We sent 1.5 million masks to AVIQ at the beginning of the crisis, because there were deficits at that time. There too, there can be cooperation. A protocol agreement was drawn up to make good use of the solidarity stock. This is also mentioned in the report of the RMG of 9 July. I do not know whether that report is already public, but perhaps it will not happen until the next few days. When it becomes public, you will be able to read exactly what it is about. In addition to the federal stock, in our own hangars, we have of course also decided to do a predistribution. This means that part of the masks and protective material is divided into predistribution on the first line. It is a strategic stock that is held locally. If something goes wrong locally, you can draw from it. It is also being asked to keep supplementing it, so that it is not simply re-launched, but that there is an effective strategic reserve. In this way we manage to give comfort to the first line. It's about 1,000 surgical masks, a few dozen aprons, gloves, face shields, and so on. A total of about 100 million pieces of protective material will be distributed. That is a substantial amount and we have thus fulfilled our task of kick-starting the decentralisation of a strategic stock. Based on a discussion at the RMG and the FPS Health Department, it was initially chosen to do so for a number of specific groups, but it was also decided to consider whether these groups could be expanded and whether groups could be added to them. The answer to that is yes. These discussions are still ongoing, for example on podologists, kinesis and others. Within our capabilities, we look at how we can arrange this predistribution as widely as possible. This is now being done by nurses, general practitioners and healthcare professionals working within a federation. There they will be distributed through the employer or the federation. The others are currently receiving the packages. It seems to me to be a logical strategy to create a strategic stock with serious volumes on a decentralised basis. If there was a problem with a very large second wave, we also have a federal strategic stock. The regions were also asked to build a strategic stock so as to be able to combat it effectively. There is also a solidarity stock so that when a problem arises in one of the communities or regions, one can compensate and switch quickly. I have the list here, and I'd like to read it to you. In a first phase, we are talking about general practitioners, heart specialists, dentists, home nurses, home care professionals and home freezers. By the way, the FPS Public Health has created a very nice list when different groups will be delivered. Discussions are also ongoing to provide a strategic stock to physicists, podologists, pharmaceutical-technical assistants, audiologists, ergotherapists and others. With regard to foreign travel, I will be brief, as Minister De Block will perhaps elaborate more on this. Last week, we decided to work with red, orange and green zones. It's actually very simple. Anyone who is in or returns from a red zone shall be considered to be a high risk contact in relation to contact tracing. This means that a test will be carried out, symptomatic or asymptomatic, and that one should be quarantined. Actually, that's exactly the same procedure that's being followed. Suppose there is a case of contamination in Belgium and people are called to say that they have been in contact with them, and that they are therefore a high risk contact, then we follow exactly the same procedure as is followed by the regions and communities in the contact investigation. The complexity is that we have the Passenger Locator Form through the airports, which we can use to find out where people came from. If there is a positive case with contact tracing, then Saniport will examine who was next to it and whether these people should be contacted. That's also included in the contact tracing. In this respect, we have built a logical structure. People returning from an orange zone must be very careful and watch themselves closely. With the least symptoms, I really recommend everyone to go to the GP. This applies not only to people coming back from a journey, but to everyone in general. Quickly go to the doctor and get tested as soon as possible, and go into self-quarantine. Besides, if you show symptoms, you have to go into quarantine. So it's the same procedure as it is today. The Passenger Locator Form will also be extended to bus trips, train trips and so on. The reality commands me to say that it is more difficult to contact people who go by car, but they too will be called upon to have a citizenry test in their own interests and in the interests of their environment and to contact the general practitioner. So far, my share of foreign travel. There were questions about the contact investigation. Soon there will be an update of the IT system behind it. Now they're working with a push. This should become a system that constantly updates and continuously redirects information to the contact centres. The development of the app should be added. The cooperation agreement was an essential element in making progress. This is a regional competence. The development of the app now falls within the remit of the Inter-Federal Committee on Testing & Tracing, whose head is Karine Moykens. On Monday 7 July, a private public procurement procedure was sent out without publication. About twenty firms were registered to submit a tender by 13 July. Those firms were chosen on the basis of the specs written by the Interfederal Committee Testing & Tracing, based on the assessment of the ability to deliver the services within the specified timing and to go through a test phase and see what those specs should look like. If I'm well informed, those specs were created by Bart Preneel, a top expert in the safe development of the app. He was also present at the hearing a few weeks ago. I have already talked about the database and the Inter-Federal Committee which is looking into this and the cooperation agreement that needs to be made more finer so that we can find out about these clusters. I've talked about the doctors' support. The negotiations and discussions are ongoing. That's important. The detection of local outbreaks requires case managers. That will be a regional competence. Health inspectors will need to strengthen their teams to find out exactly what's going on if there's a signal based on positive tests. I also answered the question about the swabs. We do have some swabs in stock right now. If there were any problems, the labs or hospitals could always contact us. At first, the labs themselves are of course responsible for supplying the swabs when they take tests. I have also outlined the evolution towards autumn. When orders are placed, not so much by the federal government, but also by other entities, one has to comply with the standards. In addition, there have been four to five times more protective goods received than ordered by the various authorities. The ATP procedure is a derogation, a derogation, to existing legislation. At the time when the task force took office, an objectified element, in particular the ATP procedure, was introduced to check whether the masks were of good quality or not. I didn't know about federal orders right away, but I need to check that out. When orders were placed by third parties, there might have been discussions. It's an objective procedure. I would prefer masks not to be allowed on the market if they are of insufficient quality and producers are unsuccessful than the opposite. Everyone will agree with me on that. Several initiatives have been taken for the detection of waste water several weeks ago. I had contact with Sciensano about this when the first American paper came out to see what is happening on Belgian territory. In the meantime, Sciensano has brought together several initiatives that have been launched since then, both in Flanders and Wallonia. Effective consideration is now being given to how this can play a role in the detection of the COVID-19 virus in a type of pre-detection in certain regions. I also talked about distribution and testing. I have clarified the increase in testing capacity, the discussions on the table, the application with the Interfederal Committee. I think I've covered everything. As far as the hand gels are concerned, at the height of the crisis, a derogation has been granted to produce hand gels so that enough disinfectant alcohol is available on the market. That was also achieved, because the deficit had been resolved relatively quickly. It is still DG5, which carries out the checks. If problems are identified, the products concerned will be withdrawn from the market. I don't know about any problems right away, but I can have you checked to see if products have already been withdrawn from the market. For the masks we have published a list of all masks that do not meet quality standards. The SPF Economy has a public website with all masks of poor quality, which all hospitals and other actors could consult. Perhaps we should offer transparency for the hand gels in the same way. I see that Mr Crombez has left, but as far as cluster detection is concerned, we also look at the figures day by day. We're not just looking at averages, we're watching the infections day by day, at local and national level, to find out what's going on. With regard to the tracing contact device, the Inter-Federal Committee is in charge of this. Discussions on implementation are still under way. The dates for the public procurement launched and the manner in which it will be organised are set out. With regard to the lack of testing, discussions are under way. The current capacity of 45,000 tests must be preserved. We also need to recover tests from clinical labs, hospitals, private laboratories. The actors sit around the table to examine the possible increase in capacity in order to have enough tests for the fall. We are already discussing the definition boxes: who will be tested, when, where... Finally, the FAGG continues to keep lists of medications that may need to be added on the basis of clinical studies. If necessary, it adjusts the list and also tries to compile a strategic stock of the new medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u89	Mrs De Block, I'm going to have to give you more time than I expected. There is a lot of walking back and forth between different meeting rooms. I shall first briefly give the floor to Mr Creyelman and Mr Bertels, so that they can ask their questions. Then I will give the floor to Minister De Block for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I apologize for my delay. The defense commission decided unexpectedly to meet this afternoon, which is why I had to keep you waiting. In return, I refer to the text submitted in writing for the introduction of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u91	One virus isn't gone yet, or apparently there's another candidate already. Chinese researchers have investigated the strain of a pig virus that is apparently already pandemic-ready, as it is called. Madam Secretary, are you aware of that investigation? What do you follow up on this? What are the chances of a new pandemic being assessed by you or your services? How do you prepare our country to face that virus strain? What preventive measures will you take and communicate in this regard? Will you ask the People's Republic of China, known for its fantastic communication, whether or not in consultation with international bodies, to exchange the necessary information regarding that virus strain? Are there any laboratories in our country investigating this virus strain? If yes, what are their possible interim findings? If not, are you planning to use those labs to investigate that virus strain? Are the pigs in our country being tested for that virus strain? If so, are there any results of these investigations? If not, do you plan such tests and when will they be carried out? Are you planning to inform pig farmers and other workers in that sector? So much for my first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u92	Mr Creyelman, quick, if you can, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u93	Yes, I do my best, Mr President, but I cannot speak faster than physically possible. Madam Secretary, I have a few more questions about the remedy remdesivir. I understand, however, that Mr Depoorter has already had a happy bike ride there, so I refer to the written part of my questions for the introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u94	Madam Secretary, have there been studies in our country on remdesivir? If yes, what are the findings? Is remdesivir also used in our country to treat corona patients? If yes, how large is our stock and how many patients were treated with that stock during what period? If you do not have those figures at hand, please provide me with that part of the reply in writing at a later date. Does the agreement between Gilead and the United States jeopardise the treatment of our patients? What alternatives may be available on the market? Have you been in contact with Gilead to secure the delivery of the medicine to our country? What were the results of these contacts, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u95	Has remdesivir been used in the context of compassionate use in our country? If yes, how many patients are involved and at what cost? Will remdesivir be eligible for reimbursement through the third-payer system? Do you take initiatives on this subject, given the particular circumstances? Will you negotiate with Gilead to obtain a discount, whether or not under the famous Article 111?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u96	Mr Bertels, I give you the floor and I ask you to keep it as short as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u97	Mr President, I will be very brief. Madam Minister, Parliament and your policy cell have worked well together on the Health Care Staff Fund 2020, which was approved in the Chamber last month. Where are you on the practical implementation or preparation of the practical implementation of the Hospital Financial Resources Budget, the Maribel Fund for Training and the implementation of the self-employed measure? Is there any discussion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u98	Madam Secretary, I give you the floor and I give you 45 minutes. I hope you will be able to reply within that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the questions I am trying to put together. Some of the questions are concerned with a state of the virus's evolution and what we are doing about it. We are committed to sensitisation and continue to follow everything. There is indeed an evolution in the figures. In the last six days we have seen an increase in the number of positive tested persons. Although this is a slight increase, this figure has been rising for six days, so it needs to be monitored very closely, along with the other indicators. Sciensano continues to monitor the number of new cases every day, it also identifies the clusters and informs the regional health authorities. Then, of course, there's the contact tracing. Sciensano also has a new tool that is updated daily, namely epistat.wiv-isp.be. Also via the website info-coronavirus.be there is a lot of information available, which is always updated, as well as via the 0800 number, which bases on it for the answers. I also refer to the news reports and the social media channels of the Crisis Centre. The FPS Public Health and Sciensano give updates and answer questions. There are also messages via the social media, and a national campaign has also been prepared under the coordination of the General Directorate of External Communication of the FPS Chancellery, which will appear shortly. Behavioural psychologists are also involved in the development of these campaigns. Influencers were also involved in the plan. The R-value has so far been included in the weekly report. From now on it will also be published on the information page, where the population can follow the evolution of the number of infections on a daily basis. There are also campaigns by the communities and the infocel of the National Crisis Centre. They are aligned with the provincial and local levels. In the context of crisis management, there is continuous contact with the representatives of healthcare professionals. There is also a communication in preparation regarding the repetition of the message that regular care should not be delayed and that all initiatives in health care institutions, doctors and dentists have been taken to provide people with the necessary care in a safe way. The question was asked about measures. There is the very fine-meshed surveillance of Sciensano. That is to say: monitoring practices, data from labs, data from residential care centres, data from hospitals. All of these are sent daily after which an update will be sent to all those responsible in the evening. Epistat is also added, and the explanation of what is going on. The same applies to cluster detection. In this way, action can be taken immediately. Sciensano does indeed have an important role to play in this respect. There are also the so-called detection lines. There's the detection of the outbreaks, and there's the outbreak management. What are we gonna do? The first line of detection is the call centers and the tracing of the people who may have been in contact with a patient. You know these call centers belong to the communities. The second line of defence is early detection by data coming from, for example, collections. Minister De Backer has already spoken about this. It is about schools, workshops, places where people sit together, for example holiday camps. There is, of course, an important role for the inspection doctor of the communities, but Sciensano also plays a major role in this. The Early Detection and Management of Clusters and Small Outbreaks Agreement was developed within the Inter-Ministerial Conference with all relevant actors. There are important things in there, like the control tower. As Minister De Backer said, the Interfederal Committee, led by Mrs Moykens, plays a major role in this. Outbreak support teams are being set up by the communities and urgent plans are being drawn up for the collections, such as a crèche, a school, a church community, as I do for the asylum centres, so that we know what needs to be done if something happens there. It is important that small clusters are smashed into the bud as soon as possible and monitored to check whether the situation is under control or whether it still needs work. Protocols have also been drawn up by the relevant ministers of the Länder, for example for other types of collections where this can occur. There are also the details of Sciensano, which indicate whether the outbreak takes place in a province or a city. That's important. For example, there were 19 new cases in Wevelgem: they were able to trace where these new cases came from and so that outbreak was immediately smothered in the bud. It was a total of 19 cases in a week, which were found thanks to the data. That has already happened in other cities, but Wevelgem is now on the map with that. The network of general practitioners has been maintained and extended. Traveling is a dynamic fact. Today, other countries have also changed their travel advice. This is all being followed up because it is important for us too to know what other countries are doing. We are, of course, based on the information available to us and on the opinions of Sciensano. Sciensano plays an advisory role in foreign travel. The advice is what if I want to leave, what if I come back will be published on the Foreign Affairs website. There has been a lot of work to be done on this. Yesterday there was a publication of Sciensano with frequently asked questions about travel. It clearly shows which destinations are allowed to travel. How can we follow that? As has been said, that is always adjusted. What if one comes from a red zone or an orange zone? Returning travellers from orange zones should be vigilant, but are no longer considered high risk contacts. This also depends on their behaviour there and whether they have applied the six golden rules there. Did they go hiking on a mountain alone or did they go to a discotheque or a beach party and so on? As Minister of Health, I would like to call for the utmost caution. Anyone who comes back avoids contact and who doesn't feel well should be tested and put himself at home to avoid infecting friends or family. I will not read all the opinions completely. It is six pages, but I will leave them here. If one is abroad, it is also important to look at the situation there. One can travel to a so-called yellow area where the incidence of the virus is no higher than here, but perhaps it can turn orange or red while one is there and one has to adapt to it. There are plenty of websites that can be viewed on a smartphone. There were not only questions about the corona vaccines, but also about the flu vaccines. Three firms supply those vaccines every year. Like last year, we contacted these three companies to see if we could get more vaccines. Each of the three can deliver more doses by a certain date. An opinion of the High Health Council will soon be published identifying the priority target groups. We will therefore ensure that those priority groups, health workers and vulnerable persons with underlying diseases in their head are the first to be addressed. It is certainly not the intention that vaccines should end up with the wrong people. The High Health Council reduces the age of the target group from 65 to 50 years. This affects the number of vaccines to be administered. Last year we had too many and we had to send them back. I suspect that awareness-raising campaigns will continue in every community. For the hospitals we have taken the measure that the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity will continue to work at the Health DG if they have to scale up again. Hospitals have received guidelines on the capacity to keep them free and may need to scale up in order to receive COVID-19 patients if necessary. As far as the COVID-19 vaccines are concerned, about twenty companies are currently competing to be the first to put such a vaccine on the market. Belgium has, of course, joined the European Commission, which will negotiate a COOVID-19 vaccine on behalf of the Member States. In return, we are not allowed to conduct real negotiations. There aren't really any negotiations yet either. We will, of course, keep the lines open with the people who are insisting that a vaccine will come. We can talk, but Europe cannot really start negotiations. We have developed a plan B and contacts have been established. We were asked how many vaccines we ordered. The question is how many will be available and how many companies will succeed in developing a vaccine. The European Commission has said that the distribution will be according to population. I think it is important who is defined as priority groups, but they may not be so different from that of a common vaccine. Mrs Gijbels, you asked how many health workers were affected. My detailed answer, in which I also define the health professionals, namely all the care providers and the administrative staff in the hospitals and the volunteers in the care, I will deliver you in writing. Then I come to the questions about the new pig virus. This is a shared competence. Mr Creyelman, I am not competent for all pigs. A policy in this area must be pursued in cooperation with my colleague, Minister Ducarme. We work together on the principle of one health, which concerns the transfer between man, plant and animal. I have here an overview of how this is being done and how it is being followed up. Mr Steven Van Gucht has already expressed his views on this. Of course, he's well placed. He's trained as a vet and he's working on these viruses. He said he's worried about how that virus will evolve. Locations and hotspots have also been identified. This is closely monitored by the Sciensano National Reference Centre, which, as an integral part of international ad hoc networks, follows up the situation in real time and monitoring. Mrs Creemers, you know that I always have to wait for the approval of committees, for example. Good news has come for the dietists. The question has been dealt with by the College of Medical Directors. For COVID-19 patients who were in intensive care, the nomenclature has been adapted with a COVID-19 supplement. The agreement on the budget has only been reached in the last few days. In the multidisciplinary rehabilitation session with a minimum of 60 minutes, involving at least two additional healthcare professionals, including an ergotherapist or physiotherapist, and in which at least two techniques are applied, including movement rehabilitation, electrostimulation in motor failure, psychomotor therapy, as well as external prosthesis and hydrotherapy exercises, the dietician plays a role and has the possibility to use the dietician as a second or third care provider. In the physiosetting the dietician is then only part of the team and he will be reimbursed in this way. We now have a number of slopes for the future, but they are still being discussed. To answer Mrs Tillieux's question on cross-border care, we are not aware of any serious problems or obstacles in accessing health care after the closure of Belgian borders. No comment has been made on this, as travel to cross-border care is considered essential and the authorities in the regions in which such care is provided are accustomed to seeing patients travelling for consultation purposes. The problems observed are rather practical, i.e. border expectations due to controls. It is noted that, during the period of closure of national borders, residents still had access to care in neighbouring countries, subject to certain conditions. It should also be noted that national borders have also remained open for health professionals, who could easily visit cross-border patients. I was asked about the demand for cross-border basins. In our view, this is a useful exercise but in no way a priority at the moment, which does not, however, change the importance of the cooperation already in place. The implementation of the organisation of care provision – both in Belgium and in border regions – remains a focus. In-depth cross-border cooperation has been established and, in this context, it has been recommended that we assess cooperation with France and consider what lessons we could draw from it. On the other hand, we believe that Member States' crisis management policies need to be improved not only in border regions but also within the Member States as a whole. In this regard, we are in favour of strengthening European cooperation in the context of health crises. There was a question from Mrs Jiroflée about the time limit for medically assisted reproduction in corona times. It was decided to extend the maximum age by six months. During the first few weeks of the pandemic, doctors and hospitals were asked to postpone the non-urgent care. This was an urgent concern for some of them, because they were already quite far in their cycle. This was done with caution. For others who still had to start the process, the age was also always looked at. You know that the age for removal of ova is now 46 years and for implants at any stage of IVF 48 years. That age was therefore certainly taken into account. The RIZIV has also authorised the reimbursement of medicines for six additional months above the legally authorised maximum age. The Royal Decree regulating the budget for the financial resources also made the necessary adjustments to ensure the laboratory activities during that period. It is also an ethical discussion. Does that age need to be increased further? That age is in the law, which has been approved in the Chamber. A maximum age of 46 years and 48 years is not nothing. Apart from the COVID-19 measures, it is not up to us to take further decisions on this matter. The parliamentary debate on this issue is delicate and should be able to take place. There were a number of questions. Mr President, Mrs Van Camp had a question, but she is no longer here. If you will allow me, I will provide the written reply. The Insurance Committee delivered an opinion on this subject on 29 June 2020. I will do the same for her question on the nomenclature in the home care sector and the figures she has asked for. Mrs Sneppe had a question about the support for the dentists. Philippe De Backer has already replied in part, in particular on the distribution of protective equipment. The Insurance Committee also gave a positive opinion on 29 June 2020 on interventions in the costs of protection materials. It is 2.50 euros for physical contact between patient and caregivers. I have a table for whom all this applies: switching centres, triage, purchasing centres, sentries, nurses, also for the adaptation of basic provision and flat rates, follow-up of COVID patients, especially with nurses. Cohorte care, psychological care expansion and increased oxygen use are also reimbursed more. It also applies to rehabilitation and hospital transport and to increased costs due to preventive hygiene protection measures, as well as to the reimbursement of CT-thorax from the low variable care system. This is all about a budget of EUR 360 million. That's not nothing, not even in the fight against the corona virus. Mrs Sneppe, you asked a question about the reactive recovery of the corona premium. The simple charging of supplements for protective material is not acceptable. There is therefore a ban on corona supplements, as this is part of the royal decree on the continuity of care of 19 May. This ban will apply retroactively from 4 May, when non-essential care is restarted. This can be recovered either directly from the health care provider or with the support of the sickness fund. We did this because we were already working on a scheme, which is now about to be introduced, for the temporary financial intervention of compulsory insurance in the cost of the protection materials and insurance measures under COVID. Those decisions were taken by the Insurance Committee. That's all about patient and caregiver contacts. It would then be about contacts in the months of May to August 2020. Mrs Merckx had asked a question about dexamethasone. Mr Warmoes also put that question yesterday, perhaps with the insider knowledge that Mrs Merckx would not be here. As chairman, you have that opportunity. There is indeed no article yet available that has undergone a peer review and critically assesses the RECOVERY studies. It is difficult to judge because there are many factors that can influence a result. This is a well-designed, randomised clinical trial that includes many patients and has a hard endpoint, namely mortality. Dexamethasone is a very well-known health care product that has been used for a long time. The role of dexamethasone in acute respiratory distress syndrome has long been a point of discussion. In the meantime, it is included in the National Treatment Directive as one of the treatment options for seriously ill hospitalised patients. It is also a treatment option in the Treatment Directive of other countries such as the UK, the Netherlands and the USA. As soon as the University of Oxford has communicated, the FAGG has contacted the various suppliers to know the current stock and to monitor its evolution weekly. The first week after the announcement of the results there was an effective increase in sales by 230 %. In the next week, this fell to a 30% increase. Also for the raw material, we saw an increase of 175 % in sales in one week. The FAGG added the product to the list of medicinal products and raw materials subject to supply restrictions, in order to prevent the product from being optimally distributed or ordered too much to hoard. Certain patients with COVID or other patients who require dexatmethasone treatment would otherwise not have the necessary medicines available. As a result, wholesalers will have to limit the quantities of dexamethasone sold to the quantities corresponding to the sales of last year in the same period to a maximum of 50%. Larger quantities can be delivered if the delivery to other wholesalers or pharmacies is not compromised and if the FAGG is notified. The FAGG has therefore been very cautious. The RIZIV does not yet have invoicing data relating to the crisis period. These will be waiting a few more months. There are various forms of dexamethasone, injectable but also orally to be administered as tablets. This latter form has not yet been commercialised in Belgium. It is also an authorised raw material for majestic preparation. Of these, there are three forms, dexamethasone base, dexamethasone sodium phosphate and dexamethasone acetate. This is also monitored by the FAGG. We have not yet received applications to use it as a research drug. An estimate was also made on the basis of the monitoring data of the hospitalised COVID-19 patients. Between 3 March and 5 July, 7 per cent of 14,597 hospitalised patients for whom Sciensano received discharge data were prescribed systemic corticosteroid therapy. The type of molecule, whether dexamethasone or not, and the dose administered is not available. The website of Sciensano also contains a guide for hospitalized patients who are regularly updated by a task force. The latest version also contains a section devoted to the RECOVERY study on dexamethasone and is also kept up-to-date. The Task Force suggests that the use of dexamethasone according to the therapeutic schedule of the study should be considered on a case-by-case basis in patients requiring oxygen therapy and in particular in patients undergoing artificial ventilation. Furthermore, the Task Force awaits the final peer review publication of RECOVERY before deciding whether this treatment will become a therapeutic standard. The guide will be updated shortly. Mr Creyelman, you had a question about remdesivir. Before the medicinal product becomes available on the market, a price request must be submitted to the FPS Economy and possibly a refund request via the RIZIV. The marketing authorisation holder should then also report the commercialisation to the FAGG. On 25 June the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use at the European Medicines Agency level gave a favourable opinion on the conditional marketing authorisation of the medicinal product for the treatment of SARS-Cov-2. A conditional authorisation is granted if a medicinal product meets an unmet medical need. The MAH is likely to have to provide more clinical data at a later stage. In the meantime, however, the medicine is made available to some centres for the treatment of severely ill COVID-19 patients by an urgent request procedure. Currently there are 565 files available, which is sufficient to treat about 90 patients. It is one of the treatment options in the Sciensano Treatment Directive. This indication is in line with the conditional authorisation issued by the EEA. The company has limited availability until October, but it hopes that after that there will be sufficient stock to treat all patients within the indication. Whether this has to do with the fact that a large quantity has been ordered by the United States at the time when there was already an approval from the Food and Drug Administration but not yet an approval from EEA, I leave it in the middle. There have been talks between the European Commission and Gilead to ensure the availability of the medicinal product for the European Member States. A European purchase is under consideration. In the middle of June, we submitted our request to obtain a stock before the end of this year to meet the needs. It's not in the compassionate use program in Belgium. The company did not take the necessary steps with the FAGG. For the refund, a file must also be submitted to the CTG. Within this procedure, a structural refund could be considered on the basis of the results of the health technology assessment of remdesivir, based on the data submitted by Gilead. In the event of the identification of uncertainties by the Commission Meeting of Medicinal Products, a negotiation under Article 112 may be initiated with a view to concluding a contract. I don't know if people will be against that right now. That is a risk, given all the strategists we have known about the previous contracts. That way we can spare the boat. I have already discussed the European vaccination plan, and we are indeed in favour of it. Mr De Caluwé asked a question about the flares observed in several cities. Such a flare-up is detected more quickly if there is a careful epidemiological follow-up. A parameter is that a new case has been identified every day for 130 days and the incidence is higher than 15 new cases for 100,000 people. We see this especially in the cities, such as Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and so on. Apparently this is less common in rural areas, given the density. How do we get the increase in the number of infections? It's hard to know. We know there are more contacts possible. We know that the age group has changed, not only the older people, but also the people from 24 to 29 and from 50 to 59 years old. Is that because there are more contacts? Is that because the rules are relaxed? There are images of some young and some older people who break the rules and act at risk. I am rather pessimistic as to whether, given the current state of affairs, we can afford further relaxations. However, we will have this discussion within the National Security Council. We should definitely be careful about that. That's exactly what I gave you. Ms. Dock, persistent symptoms such as fatigue, muscle pain and concentration disorders are described in people in the recovery phase of VOCID-19, despite the elimination of the virus by the body This means that the symptoms are still present, even if the virus has left the body. This has already been observed in the case of other viral infections, such as cytomegalovirus, EBV, dengue. This can obviously interfere with a person's normal activities and cause emotional distress. Most symptoms decrease after six months to one year. Local initiatives are gradually being implemented. Some hospital centres have opened consultations dedicated to post-COVID-19 and have set up studies and surveys to monitor the quality of life and psychological status of these patients. These are patients who will likely need to be cared for in a multidisciplinary manner. KCE is also working on a publication on "Post-Resuscitation Syndrome" in patients with VOCID-19. It is a constellation of symptoms including motor difficulties, fatigue, difficulties in concentration, psychological difficulties in the patient who has been cared for in intensive care. This is therefore another subgroup of specific patients but also addressing the issue of the lasting consequences of VOCID. The publication will be directed to general practitioners, as they can track, inform and direct patients to the available services. Publication is scheduled for September 2020. Other initiatives exist, such as that of the University of Hasselt, which carried out a large survey and whose results I will give you. These symptoms may be due to remaining viruses in the blood or may also be an inflammatory response to the body that lasts longer. Many investigations are under way, but the evidence that is needed is not yet included in the literature. It is difficult to say what the long-term effects are, but it is certain that this remains a point of attention and that there is a need for help for people who have this kind of problem. Mr Bertels, you had a question about the Health Care Staff Fund. In its opinion on the BFM, the Federal Council for Hospital Services put a number of priorities first. Taking nurses out of the norm was the first priority. That was technically developed and forwarded for information by my cabinet last week and explained to the Federal Council for Hospital Services. The sector is therefore well informed. This must now be translated into a KB concerning the BFM. The order to prepare that KB was given to the FPS Public Health. The hospitals will be granted the funds retroactively, provided that they have more hands around the bed, which is the intention. We agree on that. The technical KB to allocate resources through the social Maribel is currently also in preparation and will be ready in the short term. There are still meetings on this subject with all the actors involved, including the social partners. We shall therefore proceed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u100	Each Member shall have two minutes to reply, in the order of the political groups. You understand that there will be no time for a second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u101	I would like to call for sure to stick to the daily updates on the infections. They certainly have their usefulness in promoting vigilance. I would also like to zoom in on the tail of today's chart of data. There are very few variations on this, although it is interesting for the population to see how large these fluctuations are. However, we have to zoom in very much. That is all the more important, because the tail, which is now very low, can very quickly stir up again in a new outbreak. I haven't heard if we're ready for a local lockdown, if that's what it takes. I hear about the wastewater, but I would ask you to bet on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u102	The studies are ongoing, together with the regional authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u103	All water companies are involved in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u104	That is very good, because we must seize that opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u105	The data collection is done by Sciensano, but all water companies do the measurements. What is interesting is whether we will see a predictive value in this. I have seen that the Netherlands will now do the same; Sciensano has been working on this for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u106	I understand the Netherlands is already working on this. I think it's an ideal tool to guide the exit further. Can you give me a date when I can get the answer about the infected care providers? I asked the question once, and that was a month ago. I haven't gotten that data yet. With regard to the swine flu virus, I have not heard whether we are testing it with the staff working in the sectors concerned, such as agricultural holdings. The area in which we live has always been regarded as a high-risk area, where new zoonotic infections could emerge due to the large number of animals living in the vicinity of humans. I hear Minister De Backer say that the red and orange zones are subject to a simple principle. I'm sure that's true, but the communication about that is really not simple. After all, I am only now reading that the rules have changed again. For the orange zone there was first a test and quarantine, then again only increased vigilance was recommended, but now another test and quarantine applies. We absolutely must avoid such a thing. We need to be clear. Clear and convincing communication is the only way to gain the respect and trust of citizens. We rely on the civic spirit of the people. This sense of citizenship comes naturally, when the citizens find out that the government knows what it is doing and is carrying it out in a consistent and coherent way. Finally, I urge the experts to ask whether it is in itself a risk contact when someone has travelled by plane. The person concerned may have been in contact with people who stayed in a red zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u107	Mrs Gijbels, on the Passenger Location Form the passenger must also fill in his seat on the plane, on the bus or on the train. If a positive test is carried out, passengers around the person on the plane will also be traced and notified. That's what that form is for. We will now also digitize it, so that it can be easier to trace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u108	May I ask everyone to stay within two minutes' speaking time? If not, it will be too late for the last speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u109	Minister, economists, like scientists, do not always agree. As far as testing is concerned, however, all economists I have heard in the past period absolutely agree that the best relief measure is to avoid a second wave. After your answer on the tests, namely that you are working on the capacity and looking at how we will organise them, I urge you to take the time during the recess to have the testing done. In August and September we will need all the tests. The doctor's call to provide them with sufficient tests really didn't just get away in the wild. You answer that problems with the swabs must be reported. I assume the labs will report those problems to the task force anyway. It's a little easy to put some responsibility with the labs themselves. You have been offered 3D printing swabs, which were even more expensive. That offer has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u110	We have a stock of a million swabs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u111	Minister, but no nasopharyngeal wipers, I suspect. We can find out. In connection with the tests, turn in the GPs. They're primary care providers. They are available for patients. However, make sure that they are paid, because that is still a problem. The nomenclature is not yet in order. There is an urgent need to work on this. In connection with the ATP format, there are effective problems, but they will come to you. About the orange zones, you say symptomatic patients should be vigilant. However, we all know that asymptomatic spread also exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u112	Mrs. Depoorter, I told you that anyone who starts to feel sick should consult a doctor. I would like what we are saying to be reflected correctly and not to make any nooses in the reply. Please, the discussion is difficult enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u113	Mr. Secretary, superdistributors are there before the symptoms. We know that. That's scientifically proven. Then I'll get the vaccines. Madam Minister, you say that there are more vaccines than last year and that we had to give them back last year. Of the 2.9 million out there, you'll have 60 to 70,000 more. Last year, 70,000 vaccines returned to the producers. You had a vaccination rate of 46.2 %...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u114	I don't know where you get your grades, maybe from your own pharmacy, but 200,000 have returned to Mylan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u115	You had a 46 percent vaccination rate among the risk groups. So you won't get there with those 70,000 extra vaccines. Will you provide for a phased distribution? Will you ensure that the patients at risk and the people in the healthcare sector can be vaccinated first, before 15 November, and then the other patients...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u116	There's no point in me answering you because you're not listening. I talked about the risk groups and the caregivers. You're not listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u117	But you did not talk about enforceable measures. You also did not answer the question concerning the registration of vaccination. There will be a need to register whether there will be patients who have both COVID symptoms and flu symptoms and you will not know who has been vaccinated and who has not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u118	It's in the file, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u119	Madam Secretary, that must be registered on Vaccinenet. It's not in the global medical record if it's performed by an occupational health service. The APB has already reported this to you. Registration should be possible in Vaccinenet at the pharmacies but also by the doctor. Finally, you did not answer me with regard to the syringes. I assume you'll investigate this, because I hope there's no shot saga coming in as a follow-up to the mouth mask saga.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u120	Can I ask the ministers not to interrupt during the replies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u121	Mr President, you can certainly ask that. We are listening here for hours and I would like our answers to be listened to here as well. Some are twisted, some aren't heard, some are pulled a little crazy. I think respect is always mutual.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u122	Okay, but we also listened to your answer for hours. It is simply not practical when one is interrupted. It's impossible for the translation anyway. If you would like to clarify later, I would be more than happy to give you the floor. Then the reply can continue. I would rather not interrupt permanently, because then I can also not keep an eye on time. I have no problem with the debate, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u123	Madam Minister, Minister, I listened very carefully to your explanations about the orange zone that was valid until 4 p.m. I could totally follow. Someone who goes hiking in the mountains and doesn't meet anyone in an orange zone, who comes home and is very careful, with increased vigilance: I could totally follow that and I totally agreed. Until suddenly I got push notifications on my cell phone, which again claim the opposite. I can see that, according to the Foreign Office, those quarantine rules for those returning from an orange zone are the competence of the communities and the regions. I can only make the same appeal as Erika Vlieghe yesterday in the Flemish Parliament: where is the unity of command? If something at night is sister at 11:00 p.m. and the next day at 4:00 p.m., then we will have to live with the fact that there are zones going from orange to red and from red to green. Can I once again call for clear communication on what should happen if one has been in such a zone? I know you can't or can't do it, but I want to give it to you anyway. I had also tabled a question on the nomenclature of home nurses, but it is not on the list. I would simply like to ask you to provide me with the answer you give to Mr Van Camp, because I have a lot of questions about this too. I am also very pleased with the good news about the reimbursement of dietic consultations. Would you like to let them know that, too? After all, they sent you a letter on that last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u124	Mr President, I think Mrs De Block has answered most of my questions. With regard to screening capacity, Mr. De Backer provided us with an explanation of the prices of the PCR test compared to those of the centres approved by the federal platform, but I did not have an answer to my question about the anticipation of prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u125	The price depends on logistics, including the use of saliva or other tools (tubes). That is one of the elements that I am currently examining.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u126	On the other hand, you tell us that the public procurement has been launched, but I have few answers to the question of the evaluation of this market, the involvement of federated entities, the guarantee of independence, the budget and the testing phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u127	These aspects fall within regional competence. The inter-federal committee under Karine Moykens is responsible for evaluating the various offers. Ms. Moykens delivered a presentation from the interdepartmental committee a few weeks ago, but I don't know who is responsible for evaluating the various offers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u128	It is therefore to the Regions that I must ask for an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u129	Indeed, as with all questions relating to the tracing of contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u130	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, thank you. I won't be long. I think we've had a lot of answers today. Of course, we don't have all the answers either. I believe that we will have an opportunity to discuss the special committee in the coming weeks, whose task is not to set responsibilities but to have answers and learn lessons for the future. One lesson we can already learn today is that in the future we will need a single contact person for masks. I believe that this will make it easier for everyone. Between Mrs Muylle, Mr Goffin, Mr. De Backer, and sometimes Mr. Geens, when it comes to explaining how to put on a mask... if we had one contact person, it would be easier for everyone. I'm obviously not able to tell you what a good mask is. The experts are here to tell us. I see that you have very different masks, minister, minister. A good mask, now and in the future, will be a mask that protects, resists washing at the right temperature, is worn, is worn, is provided on time and is accessible to everyone. Now that the NSC has made the decision to impose, and no longer recommend masking in public places, I hope that we will be even more attentive to quality standards and their compliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u131	Mr President, I can inform both ministers that I am very pleased with the answer given by Minister De Backer, because I did not have any questions for him. As far as Minister De Block is concerned, I have received clear answers to almost all of my questions. Just, as Mr Gijbels said, to paraphrase you, as far as your pigs are concerned, are the people in the sector being tested for that virus or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u132	Preventive testing is a competence of the regions. The question was asked a few weeks ago to consider whether the regions should do additional follow-up and preventive testing for certain specific groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u133	Do you take on a coordinating role in this or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u134	Those protocols should be laid down by the regions. That is entirely within their competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u135	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u136	Mr President, Mrs De Block, as regards the support for dentists and the other health professions, my question was not whether they receive support, I know that, but why the dentists received more than the rest. Is that because they have a better lobby group? How was that decided? As far as testing is concerned, yesterday in the Flemish Parliament the virologists were present. They were in favour of using pharmacists when there was a peak. I don't know if you've thought about that. Perhaps you should consider the Luxembourg and South Korea initiatives in the coming weeks. They organize a kind of drive-in, where one can drive in, one is tested and one knows after a week, or even earlier, the result. If it really came to a second wave, it might be interesting to organize something like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u137	Mrs. Sneppe, we have triage centers scattered across the country. I invite you to take a look at ourworldindata.org website and make the comparison between the number of tests we do daily and the number of tests in South Korea.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u138	I've seen fewer tests being done now than...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u139	We test substantially more per 1,000 inhabitants than South Korea. You really should take a look at that. We're at a test capacity between 10,000 and 15,000 a day. We test a huge number of asymptomatic patients who have come into contact with high-risk patients. I absolutely agree that we need to refine further. Also locally, we need to see whether we can use the test capacity better. Following on from my reply earlier: if there is a local outbreak, we need to be able to quickly switch and test in rest homes, businesses and so on. For this, the test capacity is absolutely necessary. The autumn is effective the flu season and then we will have to look at the situation with the labs. I didn't nationalize the labs. They are what they are and they carry with them, like abroad, responsibility for a sufficient amount of reagents, for increasing the capacity of machines and so on. We help them and support them at 100 per hour, but there are limits to what can be done in the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u140	I consulted Our World in Data yesterday and it showed that not 10,000 to 15,000 but 7,000 tests are currently being carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u141	Compare that with what is happening in South Korea and France. Two or three times as many.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u142	Maybe so, but what you're saying isn't quite right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u143	It's Epistat's numbers that Sciensano reports every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u144	You did refer to Our World in Data. I consulted that yesterday, and it was about good 7,000 tests, not 10,000 to 15,000. That may be more than elsewhere, but it has been said very early in the crisis that testing has to be carried out. The more the merrier. I just want to make a few more suggestions, if you are still with a working group. Perhaps you should also throw the suggestion to involve the pharmacists or to organize a drive-in on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u145	For the pharmacists, we're talking serological tests, not PCR tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u146	I only repeat what the virologists said yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. You may suspect me to know little about this, but the virologists will know what they are talking about. As far as the mouth masks are concerned, the new infections appear to be in 20s and 30s. In the stations it appears that young people, often of ethnic origin, do not wear a mouth mask or do so wrong. Train crews do not seem to point them out, and perhaps that is not their job either. Maybe those people are afraid of the consequences. It is probably not your competence, but it may be necessary to intervene there, possibly with more police or Securail checks. As far as the hand gels are concerned, I am pleased to hear you say that they are being tested. I have read a study which states that the hand gels make the skin more permeable, which makes it easier to absorb harmful substances. Maybe that can also be investigated?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u147	I am not supposed to answer Members' questions, but I do want to say that I take the train regularly and that the staff do check whether people wear masks. I don't think people make a distinction between different kinds of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u148	Mr President, that seems to be a problem. I also take the train and I do not see it either, but apparently it is a problem in Brussels-South.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u149	Minister, I have a question about a possible local re-establishment that I hope we will not have to resort to. It comes to my mind that a working group is currently working on the reconfiguration and that it is expected to table its report in the course of July. Could you give us any information about this? In your opinion, would localized measures be sufficient to contain the spread of the virus? Do you think that a localized reconfinition could be envisaged in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u150	Protocols have been drawn up by the competent Community Ministers on how to act in the event of the occurrence of a crèche or community. I also participated in an RMG for actions to be taken in asylum and host communities. Such measures are taken with the help of Sciensano, but also within the Interministerial Conference and the RMG. It's a working progress. Mr. De Backer has just asked the question of how we will operate with the agricultural seasonals that come for the fruit harvest. Indeed, homes could arise with the arrival of foreign workers for the harvest of apples and pears. There too, we must have a strategy. It's the RMG that has to do with it. Many aspects have been resolved but in the coming months many people could come to work temporarily in our country, and we need to know how to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u151	What about a region, a locality? Are special measures not envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u152	We have also worked with the governors who will themselves inform the mayors. There are contact points. There is one health inspector per province. The health inspector plays an important role and reports directly to the governor. The governor, in turn, is in contact with the mayor. With regard to the detection of outbreaks, Sciensano reports by commune. Indeed, the mayor must know what is happening in his territory. This provision is in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u153	Mr President, my colleague and I have nothing more to add. Ministers have been comprehensive. We thank them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u154	Mr President, I would like to mention two more points. I hadn't asked a question about traveling, but I've done that in the past. Did I understand correctly that while you said here that one should be careful about the colour of orange itself and go to the doctor with the slightest booger, which has now been changed on websites and that it is now necessary to test and do a quarantine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u155	It's changed twice. It was originally said that when returning from an orange area one had to go into self-quarantine and have a test carried out as soon as possible. The opinion was first amended following the advice of the scientists, as Mr Van Gucht said. The scientists argued that it was not immediately a high-risk contact and that people should therefore be careful and be tested for symptoms. Thereupon, the Foreign Affairs Committee amended the opinion a second time, and now it has been changed to the original opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u156	You can't do that. I said that last week. What does the person who watches the news at night think? He will wonder what they are doing there in Brussels. I understand you can't always do something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u157	The State Department needs to publish those opinions. There is not only the input of diplomatic contacts, but also of scientists. There will need to be some expertise developed. That is all very new and the situation is constantly changing. It's not good, I agree with you on that, but it's how it went.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u158	However, more efforts need to be made to collect this information before communicating. The biggest criticism one gets from the man in the street is that one doesn't know. I fully understand that for all types of medically assisted reproduction, all possible treatments can be added six months, so that people can still be treated and that agreements are made on the reimbursement by the RIZIV. That is a very good thing. You had a general plea to raise your age. I didn't mean to say that. Personally, I think we have gone far enough into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u159	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I like the execution in the BFM for the hospitals and the layout of the royal decree for the Maribel. But I'd like to get some other answers. You can send it to me. What is the status of the consultation for the part of the self-employed in the RIZIV, which you are also competent for? I hope that it will go a little further than in certain resolutions I have seen appear. I assume that we are discussing meaningful March regulations for the self-employed within the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u160	There are meetings every day, and I'm not always briefed in real time. The State Department did that now, but I have to check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u161	Okay, that's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u162	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, thank you for your interventions. My comment will broadly reflect my concern. Scientists who are at the very heart of piloting the device persist in saying that there is no unity of command, that we are not ready for a possible second wave or in the event of new outbreaks. That really raises a lot of questions. I think you need to be more efficient. So it's not just the federal. It is also, of course, the federated entities. But we need to be more efficient to avoid a second wave or the emergence of new homes. Just a few very special points. I would like to argue that we should keep open, or at least that we should be able to mobilise all decentralized sampling sites within a few hours. As you know, this virus, when it starts, has exponential speed. We must therefore be able to mobilise extremely quickly at the level of sorting and sampling sites. Still, there is the question of whether to repeat testing in nursing homes and in communities; perhaps not today, but perhaps very quickly. On this, as I do not measure the performance of interactivity between federated and federal entities, I have concerns. I hope that the application, which is slow, but which may one day be there – it is a pity that it is after the holidays – will allow interoperability with the other European countries, and that it is clearly present in the specifications. I will not go back to the Belgian tourists who come back. I have already spoken about this last week in plenary session and still today. But there is the whole aspect of foreign tourists who could pass through the meshes of the net when they pass through Belgium, either in transit, or that they stay for a few days in Belgium. There are still major question marks on this. I don't know how they're managed. I think no one really knows how these tourists will be treated if they are positive. Is there a test obligation or not? Is there a quarantine obligation or not? Where can they be quarantined, or not, since it is not Belgians who return from abroad, but foreigners who go through Belgium? They could also, in this case, when they come from risk areas, be significant vectors of transmission. As far as vaccines are concerned, I hope that we will not get caught. I'm not going to comment more broadly. Madam Minister, I am not going to dwell on the points I would like to address. I just want to tell you that on hospital funding, on the compensation of hospital funding for VOCID-19, you absolutely did not answer. You have addressed the BMF component, but only through the Maribel White Blouse Fund. You also did not reply with regard to private insurance. Will they, or not, compensate for the fact that they have obviously made savings, in particular thanks to the supplements that have no longer been requested, but also for all non-COVID patients? On this subject, I dare to hope for quick answers. They are fundamental to hospitals, especially since hospitals have to stay ready at all times, and always have a freeze on their beds to deal with a possible second wave. I'll call him back. I dare to hope for quick answers, as hospitals, caregivers and patients hope for even more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u163	Thank you, Mr. and Mrs.Ministers for your very comprehensive answers – I owe it to you. However, I would like to react on some points. The first concerns FFP2 masks. It is true that we have put in place a compliance test in addition to the one that was taking place in China and this allowed us to remove two thirds of the masks. It's a great thing and I'm not going back to that at all. I hear, however, that you are confident in the protocol that has been put in place. The problem is that doctors no longer trust this protocol. They even ask you to see him again. This is a request made by the President of ABSyM but also by the representative of Centa (?) which represents 42 hospitals in Wallonia and Brussels. I think that in view of the fact that they obtained masks that did not meet the standards and did not have an optimal filtration rate, the least that would be to meet them to reassure them about this if you do not intend to go back to this protocol. Then, as far as testing of asymptomatic people is concerned, I checked the numbers. It is true that we are above the world average for tests counted per million inhabitants. I think, however, that we should not be satisfied with this, because of two main elements; the first is that we have an important testing capacity – 45,000 tests – which could be further increased, and that despite that, we are only carrying out between 10,000 and 15,000 tests a day. At the same time, we are facing a virus that is still among us and has been particularly deadly in nursing homes and with the elderly, as we know. As a result, it is important to extend these tests to persons in nursing homes. They must also be extended to staff, whether or not they have symptoms. You've got some thinking going on. You said it earlier. We need to be able to run tests. This is an application made by Professor Coppieters of the ULB. I also wanted to refer again to the return of people returning from orange areas. You say that a quarantine will be imposed if the person has symptoms or if the test is positive. However, there are also asymptomatic people, and it is also known that the incubation time is three to fifteen days. Therefore, I think it is important to raise awareness between the time they conduct the test and when they have the results. It is really important to tell them that they must redouble their caution. Finally, I must respond to totally unworthy comments made by my colleagues at Vlaams Belang. According to these words, allochtonic people would not or very little wear the mask. That is not what I see in transportation and commerce, and what the police tell me. That's absolutely not true. I would therefore like you to stop taking advantage of the debates that we have in the Health Committee to make stigmatizing remarks towards certain populations and, moreover, are false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u164	That's not my own experience. I say what I hear from people who talk to me. That's what I bring here, but apparently that shouldn't be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u165	I would like to thank Mrs De Block for her answers to the questions I asked, which were simply those of Mrs Merckx. With my group, we agreed to replace her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic238x.u166	It was our last meeting before the holidays. I thank the two ministers for their availability throughout this period.
