ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, for a good understanding, I would like to inform you that this sitting, with oral questions on the agenda, will be attended by the questioners and group leaders. The rule is that there may be two Members per group in the hemisphere and each group determines who they are. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u3	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 April 2020 and at the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the following proposal to the Committee on Energy, the Environment and the Climate: the proposal for a law (Mrs Barbara Creemers, Séverine de Laveleye, Laurence Hmente, Tinne Van Der Straeten and Sarah Schlitz, Messrs Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet and Dieter Van Besien, Mrs Zakia Khattabi and Mr Albert Vicaire) to prohibit the placing on the market of biocides and plant protection products containing active substances of the neonicotinoid family, No 975/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 April 2020 and at the request of the proposers, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate: the bill (Mrs Barbara Creemers, Mrs Séverine de Laveleye, Mr Laurence Hennuy, Mr Tinne Van Der Straeten and Mr Sarah Schlitz, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Dieter Van Besien, Mrs Zakia Khattabi and Mr Albert Vicaire) introducing a ban on the marketing of biocidal products and plant protection products containing active substances of the neonicotinoid family, No. 975/1. This proposal had previously been sent to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. This bill was previously sent to the Health and Equal Opportunities Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, these are special times when the corona crisis has turned our entire social life upside down. In the meantime, care is being given to the people who need it and this by different actors in the field. The necessary measures are enforced by local authorities and by the security services. The people in logistics, education and nutrition are fully involved in ensuring that everything is done as well as possible. Fortunately, a lot of solidarity actions have emerged, which shows that we also have a warm society in Belgium. The focus is, of course, on the health of everyone. That's good, and it has to be. It is important not to forget the economy and its economic consequences. After all, the economic engine must continue to run. I have a number of short-term and long-term questions. In the short term, the government and several ministers have already taken many measures such as the right of bridging, the possibility of postponing taxes and so on. The Länder too have already put their money into the bag. Yesterday, for example, Flanders announced a number of measures. All this is intended to avoid an economic massacre and unnecessary bankruptcies, including the personal tragedies for both independent owners and employees. What is still on the table today is the demand for incentives for the working people and the demand for a combination of temporary unemployment and employment in certain sectors that are struggling and which lack helping hands, such as care, retail and agriculture and horticulture. As far as the long term is concerned, we absolutely must avoid a long recession and focus on investment (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u5	You're gonna have to finish up. I would like to draw your attention to speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u6	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity once again to inform you that you have two minutes' speaking time and that a 15-second delay has been calculated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, the government's communication on how to deal with the corona crisis is a real mess. Ministers openly contradict each other and contradict their experts. At about 24 hours we were told four different versions about whether or not couples who do not live together should visit each other. While your Deputy Prime Minister De Croo announces on the radio that the Federal Research Centre Sciensano will re-examine the question of whether everyone should wear a mouth mask, Minister De Block does not hold that mouth masks help and that they give a false sense of security. In the Czech Republic, the government calls for mass mouth masks; in Austria, the store is no longer allowed in without a mouth mask; in Slovakia, and now Bulgaria too, masks are mandatory everywhere. In Belgium you can get a gas fine for it. Handing out PVs is clearly easier than handing out mouth masks. Madam Prime Minister, mouth masks do indeed help: infected people protect others. It is this government that creates a false sense of security. What hasn't been said in this crisis? Testing does not help, a quarantine after a flight from abroad was not necessary, closing the borders was also not necessary, and until today you still claim that mouth masks do not help. Madam Prime Minister, do you not think it is more fair to just admit that we do not have masks, that the matter was assessed too late and that we are now waiting for sufficient production? Is it true that the advice on the masks is being reviewed and that an answer is expected very soon, as your Deputy Prime Minister claims? I hope that you will be able to answer this question so that this sad mouth masquerade can finally be brought to an end?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u9	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, every day our hearts are moved by the announcement of new deaths, the announcement of the number of people admitted to intensive care who are fighting the virus. Our admiration and appreciation for the health care staff who fight with them every day. Our gratitude is also enormous to those who provide basic services or who agree to remain confined to their homes to prevent the spread of the virus. We must live up to their efforts! Prime Minister, what is being implemented at this stage by the federal government is not enough. We are concerned about front-line health personnel in hospitals, as well as nurses at home. We are also thinking of all areas of assistance to people and especially to rest homes. We're worried about all the people they're in charge of. Madam Prime Minister, it is more than urgent to be able to test this staff in order to remove sick staff and prevent them from contaminating patients and residents, which would be catastrophic. It's been more than a week since additional testing capabilities are available, but not implemented. Private laboratories and universities are ready to carry out thousands of tests a day. They're only waiting for the authorities' green light. What are we waiting for? Prime Minister, it is essential to equip this staff. It would be unbearable to allow them even longer to meet patients without being properly equipped. What about the clearance and certification of the equipment? Stocks have arrived, are stored in hangars, for example at the airport of Bierset. Have the necessary means been identified to speed up these procedures? If I address you, Madam Prime Minister, on these specific issues, it is because we ask you to use your authority and your role as Prime Minister to speed up the response to these two urgent questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u10	Madam Prime Minister, my questions concern the European approach. How do we get the necessary help in the right place as soon as possible? That question arises in our country, but it actually applies to the whole of Europe. The regions most affected are Italy and Spain. It's a well-known fact. Well, the European Union has already provided a fund for the corona virus, worth more than EUR 30 billion, but it has not come to the right place. In Hungary, for example, there are 580 infections. That country has received €5.6 billion of support. Spain receives less, but has more than 100,000 victims. Italy also gets less. That country does not even receive half of Hungary and has more than 110,000 victims. That's not right. That's not fair. We should all sue. Madam Prime Minister, a second disc of this European corona money will be distributed. The European Commission is aware that the parameters are not correct. It has just launched a new proposal to allow greater flexibility, so that the countries most in need of aid will actually receive it. Will Belgium also support this proposal, so that those countries that really need the aid receive it, and thus also respond to the comments of the N-VA? The corona fund is a first step. However, we all know that it is only a limited helpline and that much more will be needed. We are seeing debates on Eurobonds and on coronabonds. Quite a few politicians have been dreaming about this for years, like Guy Verhofstadt in the European Parliament. It should be a pity to see them abuse the current crisis in order to push through their ideological agenda. That would be particularly unfortunate, because we would not help Italy and because we cannot quickly find a solution with coronabonds. It takes one to three years to do that properly. I am not saying that; that is what the managing director of the European Stability Mechanism says. Madam Prime Minister, will Belgium opt for pragmatism at European level so that we can find a solution quickly? So will we work through the ESM, which we also want to strengthen for this purpose, so that the money quickly reaches the countries that need it and is effectively used for investments in medical and economic material?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u11	Minister, as you know, caregivers give themselves tirelessly to patients. Let me once again report on the situation which remains extremely difficult on the ground. I draw your attention to the shortage of protective equipment. Some caregivers are always forgotten. Pharmacists have still not received masks, and physiotherapists, almost not either. I would like to ask you about this, over and over again. The second armed arm, alongside barrier measures and containment, is mass screening. He's obviously vital. We need to answer two questions. Who carries the virus and can contaminate, and who has already been infected and is therefore immune? We're announcing 10,000 tests a day. This is a first step. But I would like to insist on you. To test a third of the population, it would take 300 days. I therefore insist that we should be able to expand all the testing possibilities. I would like to draw your attention to the royal decree that was issued by Minister De Block on March 17, which prohibits rapid testing. I think this order could be reviewed. This is all the more vital because, on the ground, there are still extremely delicate situations. The situation is very tense in nursing homes, particularly because patients with VOCID-19 leave the hospital and go to their homes or to nursing homes. In relation to this difficulty, and to the risk of contamination of other residents of nursing homes, could you, together with the federated entities, examine the possibility of intermediate structures between the hospital and the nursing home or home, to avoid this risk of contamination from other residents? Finally, I would like to refer to the aspect of post-confinement anticipation. Announcements of the resumption of certain activities have already been published. I hear the date of April 6 for the Recyparcs, that of May 3 for the Charleroi airport. Isn't that premature? Has there been any consultation on this matter in the National Security Council? Was this discussed? Finally, I also call for European coherence. Have you taken initiatives with neighbouring countries or more broadly with Europe, to take coordinated action and avoid the risk of rebound to the fullest?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this hemisphere and beyond, we are all well aware of the extent of the COOVID-19 pandemic and its serious consequences. It is clear that the health of our people is a priority. But the virus has also affected our daily life, our social life and the vitality of our economy. In these troubled times, the government is and remains fully committed to protecting the population. The government is, moreover, not alone in this task. I think, of course, of the different levels of power that are involved, on their scale, in management. Like you, Mr. Gilkinet, I am also thinking of the health personnel, who show extraordinary dedication – despite stress and fatigue – to the forces of law and order, who ensure compliance with the measures under equally difficult conditions, and, more generally, to all those who make the country run through their work. Belgium thanks them for their courage and professionalism. I have appointed Mr Gilkinet here, but I know that each and every one of you is concerned about this issue. Behind these efforts which deserve respect, there remains the difficult reality of the health situation, which has been mentioned again today – as every morning. Unfortunately, we have to count 1,011 deaths at the moment. I would like to take this short and fleeting but important moment to express our deep condolences to all those who have lost a loved one. We know how dramatic these situations are. Every morning, our experts tell us about the difficult health situation. They also said this morning that our efforts were beginning to bear fruit and that the speed at which the virus spreads was decreasing. That is indeed encouraging. However, I would like to take advantage of the start of a sunny weekend to remind you that this is not the time to reduce efforts. We know how difficult it is for each of us: for our parents, our children, ourselves. I really insist: when we see that efforts are paying, this is precisely the moment when it is important to pursue them, in the interest of the health of everyone. As far as hospitals are concerned, excuse me, Mr President, but I would like to take stock. You know that a daily analysis is provided of the number of beds available to prevent hospital saturation. This is why critical thresholds have been established to ensure an optimal upstream distribution of patients between each hospital. Fortunately, this redistribution is still possible today. According to the latest figures, the occupancy of ICU beds would reach 52 per cent throughout the country. Mrs Fonck, you mentioned the very difficult situation of nursing homes. Both hospitals are working to increase the number of beds available in intensive care and, at the same time, we are trying, together with the regional governments, to develop, in other places, capacity for people who should leave the hospital but who are not yet fully fit to return to a nursing home. These capabilities are being developed. We obviously support the efforts of the Regions in this regard, since the fight against coronavirus is national. It is the set of forces that can be deployed by each and every one of us that we must develop. Of course, the issue of the supply of medical equipment remains. This remains an important concern. As you know, our colleague, Philippe De Backer, has had the task of taking charge of this serious difficulty. He uses all his time to do this. That's his number one priority. We are actually talking about medical equipment. We are also talking about test equipment, with the key not only the provision of equipment but also the validations of this equipment, the acceleration of procedures and coordination. These are the key words and we are working on them. As far as the use of mouth masks by the public is concerned, I understand that people want to be able to protect themselves from the corona virus as best they can. That is a legitimate concern. However, according to the World Health Organisation, the mouth masks should be reserved for the sick and the people who care for them. Our experts share that view. To be very clear, even if it would be advisable for the whole population to wear a mouth mask, that would not be feasible at the moment. I would remind you that there is a shortage on the world market and not just in Belgium. Therefore, the RMG has established a user priority list. It is, of course, the medical staff who are exposed to COVID-19 that should be given priority. Taking this point into account, we know that we also need to develop our internal production capacity to the maximum. However, this does not happen overnight. That is why the Kern met this week, including with the Belgian textile sector, to see to what extent it is possible to launch initiatives at Belgian level as soon as possible. These contacts, commitments and initiatives will be carried out under the leadership of Minister Geens. You should also know that we have brought together the Belgian biopharma sector to coordinate and boost research and production initiatives in the field that is of great interest to us at the moment, namely the fight against coronavirus. The health aspect of the crisis is indeed our priority, but that does not mean that we will neglect the socio-economic consequences of this crisis, which, as I said, will be great. We are fully committed. As a reminder, on 20 March, the second part of the Federal Economic and Social Protection Plan was adopted. A series of measures were taken to ensure the purchasing power of employees and to support companies and the self-employed. Those measures were already explained to you in plenary last Thursday. Of course the work doesn't stop there. The nuclear cabinet remains very attentive to messages from the field. We continue, with those messages in mind, with the RMG and with the Group of Ten. For example, a third of the plan for social and economic protection is currently under consideration. The aim is to further support the workers. It is known that the effects of the crisis are unfortunately expected to take place in time. That is why we also need to base ourselves on a crisis exit scenario now. To do this, I am trying to bring together for the moment a group of high-level experts. The objective of this group will be to develop a strategic vision for progressive decoupling. This group will be made up of eminent members of the scientific world, first of all health, but also members of the economic and social world. As you know, the National Security Council decided on 27 March to extend the measures until 19 April and, if necessary, after assessment, until 3 May. You must also remember that these decisions are taken in a collegial manner, with the Regions, each exercising its full and complete prerogatives in its competences. From the moment we consider the resumption of activities, this will be done gradually, as I said, but certainly also within the framework defended by these high-level experts; this group will be chaired by a scientist. I repeat, at this point again, priority will be given to health. As regards crisis management at European level, on 26 May last I had the opportunity to attend a meeting of the European Council by videoconference. It addressed border management, the establishment of a European overview of available stocks, production and import capacities, and the development of research efforts at European level. The President of the Council and the President of the Commission were also asked to work on an exit strategy at European level and an economic recovery plan. In the run-up to this summit, I was contacted to support an initiative by several Member States and we wrote a letter to Charles Michel, President of the European Council. The letter covered a great many elements, including the exchange of information on the spread of the virus, the question of internal borders and the need for flexibility on European budgetary rules. The economic situation was also discussed. There was no call for the launch of a so-called corona bond. It was said that we will have to work, among other things, on the introduction of a common debt instrument. Belgium's position is not new, as our country has always been open to discussion about partial and conditional debt-sharing. In any case, Belgium will not commit itself unconditionally to such an instrument. That is why we really need to list the benefits and limitations of such an instrument so that it can be assessed with full knowledge of whether or not it can be used in the European Union. As far as the rest of your question is concerned, Mr Loones, Europe must always try to help those who need it most. This applies to Europe, and that applies to everyone, I believe, including our country, including ourselves personally. Belgium will certainly always take that attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, because of its importance I have allowed you to reply extensively and beyond the given time. That is why I am doubling the reply time of every Member who has asked a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, I welcome your reply and also the measures taken by you and your government team in recent weeks. With regard to short-term economic measures, we will continue to advocate a possible combination of temporary unemployment and possible employment in certain sectors, which really need it and where helping hands are too short. We are thinking of the care sector, the retail sector and the field of agriculture and horticulture. It would be a very effective measure, and it would not necessarily entail additional costs. Long-term economic measures are already being considered, according to what I have heard, which is a very good thing. We therefore call for a real relaunch plan with many different measures, both aimed at making investments by public authorities and, where appropriate, local authorities, and at boosting consumer confidence. Once the measures now announced will lie down and be lifted, it is important for the economy to be able to recover immediately and that life can continue. The use of consumers in the economy is very crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, you say that this government is following the recommendations of the WHO. I did not know that it was a WHO recommendation to lie to the people about the usefulness of mouth masks because they are not in stock. You yourself say that the WHO recommends mouth masks for sick people. Then you need to know who's sick. Then you'll need to test massively. There are a lot of sick people who are still not being tested today. It is a WHO recommendation to protect health care personnel with mouth masks. You call this a welfare state, but to date you are unable to provide the care personnel, the emergency services and the law enforcement services with proper and adequate protective equipment. That's what I find vengeful at this time. It's been a mistake so far. There's no strategic stock of mouth masks. The orders would have gone better through Guust Flater.. Gaston Lagaffe you might understand....................................................................................................................................................... Tens of thousands of FFP2 mouth masks delivered to hospitals are not even suitable for medical use. Madam Prime Minister, that must be your priority. You must protect the care staff, which is well-prepared and well-prepared, in order to protect the population as well. There's a lot going wrong. With the Flemish interest, we have tabled a proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to look into this matter. I understand that other parties who are interested in the committee of inquiry are also interested, of course, after the crisis. It is indeed necessary to examine how leaders of this country use their power to influence scientists in an attempt to camouflage their own failures. The masks will lose weight, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the top priority for environmentalists in this health crisis is public health, the protection of the most vulnerable, the equipment of health professionals. If our country is holding on, or about, resisting, it is not because of our ability to anticipate. Everything was written, in 2009, in the pandemic plan, following influenza (Influenza). Nothing has been implemented. Of course, that makes us angry. If we hold on, it is thanks to the dedication and inventiveness of caregivers in the field. Madam Prime Minister, I know that the files have been distributed among different ministers, that task forces have been created. I think there is a need to empower each other. But it is not a question of diluting the decision either. If I have spoken to you today, knowingly, it is because we have to decide, go forward, go forward, act; like the health professionals do; and especially on these two questions that I have asked you: testing and equipment. Prime Minister, please press the accelerator. Use your authority and you will have our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, the question for the European debate is what camp Belgium is in, in camp South or in camp North. The Prime Minister's traditional response is that we are not in any camp, but that Belgium will be the diplomatic bridge between the North and the South of the European Union. That sounds nice, but the reality is that you give the impression that you do choose camp. This happens when you sign a letter of which Greece, Spain, Italy, France and Portugal are co-signators, but you signed it on your own, without consulting the Länder. Moreover, the Belgian permanent diplomatic representation to the EU, as I know, was not informed either. In a crisis, you don't do that. In a crisis, it is best to consult, especially when such matters are undertaken and especially when the impression is given that you are in favour of coronabonds. You say this is not in the letter, but the whole world has read that letter differently. With regard to Belgium's position, I am pleased to hear that you are a little reluctant about Eurobonds. You'd like to have a thorough examination first. I am pleased that you have been able to convince the Members of the European Parliament of Open Vld, PS and Ecolo not to go along with this immediately, because Eurobonds are not the solution to give rapid support to Italy, which is really our top priority. There are mechanisms that can work quickly, allowing the money to get to the spot quickly. Let us use it. [[Objection and noise]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u18	Mr Loones has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u19	Finally, it is a good thing that you support the European ambition to help those countries that need it most, such as Italy. When N-VA made that point, we were called into the European debate. I see that the European Commission is now following our position. It's nice that you're doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u20	Mr. Loones, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u21	You say that you do so not only at European level, but also in your own country. Well, there is also an imbalance in the distribution. Let us ensure that the financial resources reach the region (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u22	We really disagree with what has just been said. A patient is a patient, there is no label on his forehead, whatever it is. The support and support provided must ignore the labels that some would like to put on them. Madam Prime Minister, you said that we should not let the effort go. That's right! Whether it's hygiene measures, physical distance or containment, it's vital to continue. Let me insist that the government redouble its efforts for caregivers, who are wondering whether they will have enough masks or whether they can be tested. This situation for caregivers is extremely difficult to live with. They need to see clear from week to week to be able to take care of patients optimally. I have made proposals: more flexibility, lifting certain prohibitions, removing certain obstacles. So much the better if we can move forward on Belgian production. For rest homes, the situation is delicate. You talked about abilities, but it's not just that. It should also be avoided that patients who have to leave the hospital because there is no other choice contaminate older, more fragile patients. Finally, I take it that you plead for consistency in Belgium. There can be no different speeds for decoupling, it would be the worst for the citizens. There is also a need for consistency, at least with neighbouring countries, otherwise the risk of rebound will be much greater.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u23	Mr Minister, at a time when the whole world is joining forces in the fight against the virus, when governments and banks are beating hands together to ensure that companies, SMEs and self-employed people can keep their heads above water, when everyone is wondering where this will end and what the world will look like in a few months' time, a financial giant, BNP Paribas, stands in Paris and announces that he will financially drain his Belgian daughter, Fortis, to pay dividends. How strange can one be? That's how the Titanic orchestra must have felt. There's nothing to worry about. We'll keep playing. BNP Paribas has never heard the word "corona" and continues as usual. The European Central Bank asks that the banks should not pay dividends. Minister, you are asking the same question to the Belgian banks. Many banks spontaneously follow up on that call, but some look the other way without embarrassment. What BNP Paribas announces here is unethical. The consequences go beyond a transfer of money from Brussels to Paris. If that is the attitude of a major financial player in the euro area, to what extent will there still be confidence in the solidarity and strength of a unified European banking union? We must avoid such a crisis of confidence at all costs. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, are you prepared to make the demand for banks not to pay dividends more compelling? If so, in what way? Secondly, are you prepared to extend the measure beyond our country alone and to ask the European Central Bank and its supervisory board to impose such a ban at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u24	Mr President, Minister, we have no idea yet of the depth of the economic crisis. At the moment it is all hands on deck everywhere, including self-employed and entrepreneurs who are having a hard time themselves. Even those people are showing solidarity and helping. In a crisis, of course, there are always companies trying to make super-profits, and in the super-stairs, a number of large banks see that. With a crapulous arrogance, at a time when we don't know how bad it's gonna get, they say they just want to spend billions on shareholders most of whom don't need it. In fact, we belong to those shareholders themselves. They simply decide that, even in violation of the rules of careful administration of the banks themselves. So last week, Minister, our cautious question was to ensure that no dividends are paid in these difficult circumstances. However, we will now have to translate this question into something very compelling. After all, Parliament cannot accept the payment of a billion-dollar dividend within three weeks, at a time when no one knows what the economic damage will be. Mr Minister, I will put two very clear questions to that effect, and I also hope for a clear answer. Firstly, are you prepared to ban by law the distribution of dividends, at least until 30 September, as long as the bank guarantee applies here? Otherwise, tax money will provide reserves to banks that they can then pay out to shareholders. You asked them not to, and they're just putting up the middle finger. Are you prepared to forbid by law that they pay dividends? Secondly, if they simply continue with their international banking arrogance, are you prepared to ensure that we here in Parliament adopt an amendment to the bank guarantee law to recover all public money that goes to that French bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our people are suffering. The messages are innumerable. It is unbearable to hear so many people who suffer from the decline in their purchasing power, who now receive their first salary or what is left of it. Minister, I would like to give you a few examples, because I do not have the impression that the world of finance is aware of the situation. There is the case of this lady who works 19 hours a week as part of the service vouchers and who will have to deal with 600 or 700 euros a month. There is the case of this 32-year-old electromechanic, who created his own company, who hired a worker, who started, took risks and found himself, overnight, without any customer. These people can't live anymore! At the same time, we learn that one of the largest European banks decides to pay 1.9 billion dividends. What is this system? What is this company? What are these banks that continue to want to pay their shareholders as much money as possible while people suffer? The worst thing, Minister, is that these banks were given a lot of money in 2008, during the crisis, and that they were in great difficulty. How much was given to Fortis? 10.4 billion! And today, rather than helping SMEs, rather than helping workers, people who fail to make ends meet with their credits, Fortis continues to pay the dividends at a rate of 1.9 billion. My question is very clear, Minister: are you going to let it happen? The State is a shareholder of this bank. You have the power to say stop and decide that dividends should not come out of banks and should be used to help workers. Minister, I look forward to political voluntarism in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u26	Colleagues, coronavirus has a huge impact not only in terms of health but also in terms of financial resources. Many people see their income decline, as well as many businesses. Over the past week, we have made it very clear that the banks have a crucial role to play at this difficult time, to ensure that funding to our people, our families and our businesses continues to come. That is why we have reached an agreement with the sector to ensure that families and businesses are given six months' delay on current payments. We will also partially guarantee a scheme of 50 billion additional funding with the government. Together with the sector, which, as has been said, shows a great deal of goodwill, we will take everything out of the box to ensure that the money tap is not turned off for those affected. Mr Crombez, I was asked in committee about paying dividends. I have said very clearly what is my priority. Supporting the real economy, absorbing losses, in my view, has absolute priority over paying dividends or buying shares. Not only do I stand by that view, as has already been said: the ECB and my French colleague have also expressed the same position. By the way, a whole series of banks have seen this. KBC and ING have decided not to pay dividends. At Belfius, a board of directors is currently taking place. Compared to BNP Paribas, I do not want and can not be the spokesman of the bank of course. Nevertheless, there was a communication yesterday from BNP Paribas, announcing that the bank is reassessing the situation with respect to dividends. The Belgian position has been very, very clear in recent days. I have been confirmed through diplomatic contacts with France that this position was also heard and understood in Paris, and I therefore assume that the re-evaluation I have just mentioned means that there will be no dividend payment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u27	Minister, I understand that you are using your influence to solve this problem. I also have the impression that pressure is being exerted on the bank from various other sides to return to its intention. I hope that the French government will also play its part in this. However, it is not the first time that this bank makes decisions that make us frown the eyebrows. Belgium is the largest shareholder of BNP Paribas. We have a seat on the board of directors. It is time for us to make that voice sound loud, it is time for us to influence the bank's policy, because if it is not, then what is the point of maintaining that participation? If that is not the case, we should ask ourselves whether we still belong there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u28	Minister, I had predicted in last week's plenary that my speech on your law on the bank guarantee would be EUR 50 billion of implicit sovereign debt, one of which would be about the future, namely what the banks would do. We are only seven days ahead of you and you repeat that you want them not to pay dividends, but they do not care so far. There's been a re-evaluation. I repeat that the law that we passed last week has but one purpose, namely to save healthy self-employed and SMEs. That's all it is. I understand that you are not answering my question as to whether we will stop the banks with a law if they simply continue with that crapular capitalism. Are we going to ban the distribution of dividends to banks? Article 14 of the 1996 Law provides for that possibility, so that would not even be new. We are aware that we are in impossible circumstances, in which we will not let the big bank simply take that money away. We hope she will behave, but if she does not do so in the coming weeks, then we must intervene and make it legally impossible. Apparently, that's the only way she really listens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u29	Mr President, the Minister for Banks, you actually have little to say about the banks in our country, and that is the problem. We have already warned you last week that the bank guarantee should not be a blank cheque for the sector. As in 2008, the question will arise as to who will pay for this crisis: workers or banks? Just a week later, we can see that the big maneuvers started. A week! Honestly, I thought they would wait three to four weeks, so that they could act in the middle of the crisis to be a little tactical. No! Already now, they're thinking about business. Minister, you are telling us that you have received guarantees. I'm waiting to see. It is not only a question of whether dividends will be paid in France, but also of whether the money will come out of Belgium. These are two separate questions. Minister, have you had any guarantees on both aspects? Or have you had guarantees only on dividends given in France? Or on the question of the departure of money here in Belgium? Minister, today you must take the bull by the horns and guarantee, by law, a dividend stop, both for the banking community and for all multinationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u30	Mr Minister, on this day when we again have to regret almost 200 deaths at 24 hours due to the corona crisis, it is not the time to loosely change the prescribed measures. Beautiful weather is predicted for the weekend. Of course everyone would like to enjoy that and be together in the outdoors. But you can't do that right now. Our police forces must be able to guarantee the enforcement of the measures imposed. That's not easy. We must therefore ask the citizens to respect the police forces. Our policemen don't have it easy today. They are often harassed, they are even spit upon, something we must certainly condemn and act against. Minister, after the so-called lockdown parties, when people continued to party together despite the measures, the College of Attorney General issued a directive. I now notice that some chiefs of police are reading that directive as a way to get into a private house with the ram once in a while. They're ready to do that, they say. We also read reports of heat drones on the coast watching if no one moves in the dunes. We hear about neighbors ratting each other out and now taking the opportunity to settle neighborly disputes in this way. Minister, I cannot help but say, and I will not be alone in saying that as a liberal I am only in favour of a society in which the current state of emergency is being used to create a kind of informant society and where police forces get carte blanche to violate our privacy and to enter private homes. I come to my question to you. There is a directive of the College of Attorneys General on the admission of private residents. I would ask you to refine and clarify it together with the Minister of Justice. We fully agree that you are acting hard against people who train together in the public sector where they should not be or go to places where they should not be necessary. But people's privacy is a fundamental right, which we must not allow to be lost in this state of emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u31	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, I would like to begin by expressing my sincere condolences once again to the families and relatives of the deceased as a result of the COOVID-19 virus. The patients who are still in the hospital and often have to fight hard for their lives, too, I would like to put my heart on the line. I very much support the medical and nursing staff in the front line and the staff in the essential and investigating sectors. Mr President, Mr Lachaert, ladies and gentlemen, the National Security Council in our country adopted a series of measures aimed at limiting contact between people who are potentially carriers of the virus. The most concrete measures concern respect for social discrimination, including a ban on co-training for more than two people. Most people, i.e. a large proportion of the population, follow these measures well. However, some of the population did not understand that everyone had to comply with social discrimination measures in order to achieve the desired goal. Unfortunately, there are still a lot of interventions to be carried out in the areas of cooperation, non-essential movements, private parties or non-compliance with the rules. I'm not talking about the spitting incidents to police officers you referred to. This is a cowardly and vile phenomenon which I once again wish to condemn. Those who are guilty of this will also be severely punished. The system of immediate collection for infringements will be generalised in consultation with my colleague, the Minister of Justice. In order to ensure that the measures are respected as far as possible, our police services are very important in the field. In order for their actions to be uniform in the field, on 30 March 2020 we wrote a letter giving clear guidelines to our police services. In reply to your question about entering the private residence, I can tell you the following. The College of Attorneys-General refers explicitly to the possibility of an administrative search in private places in a recent letter before the corona crisis when, I quote, "it has an extremely serious and imminent character which threatens the life or physical integrity of persons. Findings of breaches in the private home are therefore possible by a decision of the local police chief in consultation with the King's Attorney." To conclude, I would like to point out that, where necessary, we clarify and refine the rules. To this end, there are permanent consultation structures, including the GPI Task Force or Integrated Police Police Intégrée, which I have set up to this end. However, we also call on everyone to use common sense. Finally, I would like to thank the tens of thousands of policemen and women who are doing incredible work. Thanks to the emergency services, the fire department and civil protection. We are doing everything we can to ensure that they do their job safely. Thank you also to all citizens who are and will remain in solidarity. The challenge we face is tough, but holding on is the message. Get some fresh air out, watch over your psychic well-being, but above all respect the rules of social distance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u32	If you wish, you will also have a little more time for your reply, Mr Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u33	I'll try to be concise. Minister, I agree with you that we must work together to ensure that the measures imposed are properly enforced, with common sense. On behalf of my group, I would also like to show respect for our police and other enforcement services. If I ask you to refine this, it is because we hear a number of incidents. If neighbors go to the police and talk about a neighbor throwing a party, and it turns out it's about a drink on the birthday of a child living under the same roof, we'll eventually drift off to a society that we absolutely don't want, which nobody here would want from a democratic point of view. We need to work together to solve the current state of emergency, but never, never, jamais, can this form an ailbi to organize some kind of police state, where one can just enter a private home without the intervention of a judge. Nor can this be a reason to create click lines. If we want to tackle the problem of the virus, if we want to fight this evil together, the solution can never be to throw all our rights and freedoms overboard. In that case, at the end of the ride we have an even bigger evil left. As a Liberal, I would like to see to it that you refine it properly in further discussions, so that it can be acted on in a proportionate manner. I know one mayor's doing this proportionally, the other might be a little heavier. My only question to you is to ensure that this remains proportionate and democratic and that our liberal fundamental rights are not compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u34	Mr. President, Madam Minister, we have just passed the 5000 people hospitalized because of the coronavirus. Of these, 1144 are currently in intensive care, bringing the occupancy rate of ICU beds to 52%. We are therefore far from the critical thresholds that were mentioned earlier by the Prime Minister. Nevertheless, we must remain cautious, since we have still not reached the peak of the epidemic, that there are beside it people who suffer from chronic diseases and who must also be able to be taken care of, but also because these figures are ultimately only an average. Indeed, the intensive care services of several hospitals in Hainaut, Limburg, but also in Brussels, are either saturated or close to being saturated. It's not me, Madam Minister, who says it, but they themselves. You're going to tell me that you have a distribution plan that allows you to transfer patients in excess initially to hospitals in the area and then to hospitals further away. However, this plan does not satisfy the hospitals concerned at all, since in order to avoid saturation of all hospitals in the same region, they called on you to adopt an allocation plan that would target all hospitals in the country, in this case hospitals in the less affected provinces. It is a request that you would have refused, which forces them to deal with each other today. The Brussels hospitals, again this morning, in a forum addressed to you through the press, explain that the opening of new units could be envisaged, but provided that the recurring problem of lack of equipment and lack of medicines is solved upstream. They call you "to an immediate and radical awareness of the gravity of the situation". Minister, this leads me to ask you the following questions. Is there now a monitoring of the capacity of beds but also of the actual staff in intensive care services in each of our hospitals? Is it public or at least available and accessible to hospitals? Do you confirm your refusal to adopt a national plan for the distribution of patients to be hospitalized? Why? Is there an emergency plan in case of network saturation? Finally, what steps will you take to ensure the medical follow-up of patients who do not suffer from coronavirus but from chronic diseases? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u35	Of course, the Minister, the government and yourself have already taken a lot of measures, but we still have a lot of questions today and there are still many uncertainties from civil society and healthcare staff. First of all, for hospitals it is still unclear how many tests there really are, so they see the rivalry growing between the different hospitals. One hospital in West Flanders tests everyone who comes in. Another hospital in Limburg must be restricted and can only test patients with symptoms of COVID-19. That way, not everyone gets the same care he or she deserves. This concern depends on the region in which one lives. I believe that we need more binding measures and much more concrete action in this respect. Secondly, there is still a lack of protective equipment. There's a lot of uncertainty about the mouth masks. I'm thinking moon suits, too. A lot of nurses have to put their lunar suits in a cardboard box for seven hours to make sure they're virus-free and then wear them inside out. I do not think we can justify such matters in Belgium anymore. Thirdly, it is feared that in two weeks' time there will not be enough drugs such as morphine, sedatives and muscle relaxants to treat COVID-19 patients. Can you give me more information on that? What about the supply of drugs, more specifically from propofol and morphine?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u36	Mr President, Minister, Minister, hospitals are begging for mouth masks. Treating infected patients unprotected is a nightmare. That call for protection sounds louder and louder. In the meantime, everyone pulls the alarm. Family doctors cannot investigate many patients due to a lack of masks, in the rest homes two out of three of the care staff with a lack of protective equipment and also home nurses, pharmacists, psychiatric staff and disability care continue to suffer from shortages of aprons, glasses and mouth masks. The staff of supermarkets also feel under-protected and the federal police even now made a strike announcement because of the lack of mouth masks. Madam Secretary, I am ships, too. I stand on the premises every day and I look those people in the eyes who go home to old people or who work in retirement homes. They're tired. They're angry and scared. Care personnel, shopkeepers and police officers, all these people take the lead in the fight against corona. All these people are keeping our country right today, and so all these people deserve recognition. I repeat what I said last week. They especially deserve a government that protects them, a strong government that ensures that they can work safely, that they have enough mouth masks and other protective equipment and that they should not be worried about being infected themselves. My question is therefore very simple. Madam Minister, Minister, what is the state of play with regard to the supply of mouth masks and other materials? Last week I got the promise here that every day an update would come if one was sure of a shipment. I haven't heard another update. Does that mean there's still no certainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u37	Madam Secretary, every evening at 8 o'clock we applaud the heroes, but heroes also fear. There are incredibly many people who say they're afraid of going to work at the hospital or the rest home. After all, they only have one mask that they have to throw in a box at night and then they have to hope that the mouth masks are disinfected at night. According to a survey, 94 percent of health care workers are going to work with terror today. We can talk about the past, whatever we must and will do, but today there is a shortage of mouth masks. We need to discuss how that happened. Why do we want to invest 15 billion in F-35s and not in strategic stocks? That is a debate we need to have, but we need to talk about solutions first. I have three specific questions. First of all, why can't the government seize all the stocks of mouth masks in our country? Why can't we confiscate the stocks that are still in stock today at Audi, Van Hool, DAF, BASF, Eastman and in construction? It concerns hundreds of thousands of mouth masks of the types FFP2 and FFP3. I do not understand why Mr Jambon wants construction workers and asbestos removers to go back to work when we know that they also use these masks. Secondly, can the government not allow the import of mouth masks exclusively through the government? Today we see that all kinds of intermediaries, traders and speculators have deposited themselves in that market. You've already had to deal with those speculators yourself. As in the case of human smugglers in the refugee crisis, there are mask smugglers today. Tie that up and make sure this is regulated from government to government. Thirdly, why can we not ensure that the production lines are adapted, as happens, for example, at Seat in Spain or also in the United States? [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u38	Minister, every day hospitals count. They count their masks, coats, protective equipment, gloves, disinfection products, filters of their breathers, medicines, anesthetics and swabs. The same swabs on which you assured us, in this very assembly on March 3, that there were no stock problems. These hospitals are on the steep rope. Some can still hold for a few weeks, others for a few days. And what about all those who still do not have protective equipment? I am thinking in particular of physiotherapists and the whole paramedical sector, pharmacists, paediatricians, and some home-based nurses who are still not equipped. Beyond this particularly difficult situation, these women and men wonder if the authorities will actually help them. Yes, given the scale of the problem, a task force has been set up, led by your colleague Mr. Backer, but the answers are missing, and so is transparency. We are told of orders that are finally aborted for obscure reasons. We are informed of the arrival of masks that are ultimately unusable, or directly missed during quality checks. Minister, I have several questions for you. And today we want clear answers, with precise figures and dates, for us, for the patients but also and especially for the entire healthcare staff. How many surgical masks and FFP2 are currently in order? When are future deliveries scheduled? What about security and supply chains that seem to be lacking, as we have seen in recent days? What about quality checks on protective equipment, but also on medicines such as anaesthetizers? Does this government have an overall view of current stocks or not? Would it be possible to take stock of this information on a daily basis with hospitals, so that they know what to stick to?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth about the discussion a few weeks ago, whether or not it is a common flu, has unfortunately caught up with us. [[However, we must now all move forward, transcend our differences and take care of our people.]] That counts now. Much work has already been done, but I would like to go through a number of points of interest with you. We need treatment medication. We focus on clinical trials, which is good. chloroquine, possibly in combination with antivirals or antibiotics, could also be effective. Madam Secretary, are you trying to provide the hospitals with that? Will we have enough? Many products are produced in Wuhan and the demand for them is worldwide. Scissors of narcotics for the treatment of patients are also reported. However, these resources are vital, as one colleague has said. In the intensive care department there are extra beds, but it seems that the amount of medication available has not evolved. How will you do that? There is still a shortage of mouth masks for healthcare professions, but also for other sectors, such as police officers and retail workers. When it comes to advice on whether or not to wear mouth masks in public, people are confused. Can you ensure unambiguous communication from the government? Your experts also state that there will be enough IZ beds, but will there also be sufficient ventilation equipment and spare parts? Another work point that has already been mentioned is protective clothing. A doctor who weighs 100 kilos and is 1,90 meters tall gets a pack of size medium. How do you do that? There's no protection. Finally, I will come to the tests. We really need to test more for immunity and also for the prevalence of the disease. Will you test the care providers in the first and second lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u40	I now give the floor consecutively to both ministers, who will allocate speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. It's been a little over two weeks since this country went into almost lockdown. The virus is still among us. It is invisible, but it is there, in our society, in our daily lives, and it is very visible in the figures: the number of people in the hospital, the number of people infected, the number of people who have died. Our capacity for intensive beds is visible in our tables. Nor is Parliament invisible to the suffering of the families and those who grieve for a loss. Every death is a tragedy for the next of kin. It is therefore appropriate to offer my condolences to all the families affected. Ladies and gentlemen, the number of hospital admissions is visible. Around each bed is day and night a number of very committed people in the weather to surround our patients. The danger, and also our asset, is in the crucial week ahead of us, especially on the weekends. I have great respect for the whole medical, nursing and nursing world, in hospitals, rest homes and all other facilities for vulnerable people, because they fight the virus with incredible invisible efforts and make great efforts 24 hours a day. We have a good system of health care, and that is what we really need now. In other countries people have had to give up because there was no longer any possibility of taking care of them in a hospital. We have good hopes that it will not have to come to that, thanks to the efforts made in our health care. I would therefore like to thank everyone who keeps the country running, especially the health care people, but also all those who are still working in the other sectors, moving or where it can be done at home. Finally, I would also like to thank the many people who help by following the directives: those who stay in their homes, who stay away from others when they have to go outside, who wash their hands more than regularly. Now we must certainly continue to apply the rules. It's too important. In recent days, there has been some confusion about the use of mouth masks by people who are not helpers or who are not sick. We keep repeating that we are following the scientists and the World Health Organisation. Mouth masks have little added value and can even give a false sense of safety. Let us leave them, please, to our caregivers. I also appeal to the politicians not to cause any more unrest. We are working hard to ensure that we have a stock of masks, gloves and suits for people who need them. This research is not simple in times of global crisis because there is currently a shortage around the world. Philippe De Backer leads the task force and will provide you with a state of affairs. He makes an inventory twice a week. Meanwhile, we continue to work to install more beds, provide equipment and provide additional staff so that we are ready to face the worst-case scenario. We also pay particular attention to the distribution of patients in hospitals. Every day there is a task force Search Capacity Hospitals and Transport that monitors the various available capacities in each hospital several times a day. If a hospital is at risk of getting too many admissions in the short term, a transfer is already planned for the next admission and the sats of the hospital are followed. Mrs. Rohonyi, we now have a occupancy rate of 52% of the beds that are already intended for VOCID-19 patients. There are also other intensive care beds for other patients who do not suffer from coronavirus. For the transport of patients, measures have been taken to reserve certain ambulances for patients likely or certainly affected by the virus. The necessary plans have been made for hospital transport to hospitals as well as between hospitals. This was of course forwarded to all hospitals and ambulance services. When we talk about capacity, it's never just about beds, it's about the bed, the remirator, everything that's needed there, and certainly the capacity to staff that's needed. I am working with colleagues in the Länder so that we can also take care of the elderly, people with disabilities and the residents of residential care centres that are infected as well as possible. We are also preparing the next phase of the fight against corona. Once we can do a lot more tests, we will be able to target new outbreaks. We have also been able to take a number of measures quickly to help patients and aid workers. Consultations by telephone or video call are already possible with doctors, psychiatrists, logopedists and physiotherapists. There are also adapted arrangements for other professions. We also provide an extra budget for psychological support in these difficult times. Finally, we ensure that hospitals do not crack under the violence of the corona pandemic. We are providing an additional budget of EUR 1 billion, so that hospitals do not have to worry about this, that they can continue to pay the bills, buy the necessary equipment and compensate the people. Ladies and gentlemen, it's important to say that the virus hasn't been completely contained yet, but if we all keep working so hard, we'll have it down together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u42	I call Mr De Backer. Don't talk too close to the micro. I have already said that, in view of the length of the answers, colleagues will also be given a double speaking time for their reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u43	Mr President, the task force, Shortages, has been in full swing since last week. We have put together a team of ten experienced and internationally connected buyers, who help us to follow the necessary leads, many of which come in our direction. I would like to stress, as many of you have said, that it is very difficult to work in international markets. All countries, all governments, are looking for the same materials and also the organisation and logistics become more difficult every day. For the time being, in order to encourage them to continue their deliveries, we remain in contact with the suppliers we know who are providing hospitals. We also contacted new ones. We receive about fifty proposals a day, but most of them are not accepted because they do not provide sufficient quality assurance. We are also examining the possibility of new productions in Belgium, for example in the form of collaboration between the textile and automotive sectors. In addition, there are stocks of some Belgian companies abroad. We found them in Bulgaria and Tunisia to repatriate them to our country. Similarly, we are studying the possibility of reusing certain materials. This is how we are developing a protocol for the re-use of masks in hospitals. So we're still doing whatever it takes. Although production capacity was increased by traditional and reliable Belgian suppliers, we remain obliged to make orders abroad. Let me be very clear on this: suspicious parties are being banned. We will not allow crooked and suspicious traders to make money out of this at the expense of the health of the people who are in the first line today. I want to be very transparent about that. How do we proceed? Firstly, we check in advance whether the companies in which we order comply with the certification and standards of international institutions and whether they have the necessary certificates. If we don't have any certainty about that, we'll ask you to send samples to check them in Belgian labs. At the time of delivery, the FPS Economy and the pharmaceutical agency carry out a second check on these products. If there is no certainty of conformity, samples of the lottery tickets shall be taken. Once again, these are tested in Belgian labs. Only when all safety conditions are met will the masks be placed on the market. If this is not the case, the lottery tickets will be withheld. In other words, if the quality is still sufficiently high, they are declassified to comfort masks, so that they can still be used on site, but no longer by people in direct contact with patients. The FPS Economy and the pharmaceutical agency provide a separate certificate for this, which should make it clear what the quality of those mouth masks is. Despite all the control mechanisms that were installed, we get such a large amount of very heterogeneous masks that cannot be ruled out that sometimes there is a fate of insufficient quality. We will call that back immediately. The materials provided in consultation with the Regions are distributed on the basis of criteria from the Risk Management Group, the group of experts and scientists who issue opinions on priorities. This means that in the event of a new shortage, the distribution will be given priority to hospital and health care staff, according to the criteria established by these experts. All the entities in this country agree on this. I would also like to give you an update on the orders and deliveries. Every day in our country new mouth masks and other protective materials come into existence. I'm giving you the federal government figures now. Recently, 22.6 million surgical masks have been delivered, 20 million distributed and another 25.5 million ordered. There were 1,375 million FFP2 masks delivered, 1.25 million distributed and 9.1 million ordered. In addition, the donations of 1.3 million surgical masks and 175,000 FFP2 masks are added. As far as the aprons and gloves are concerned, the orders are still mainly through the hospitals today, but we have ordered 100 000 additional aprons and 289 000 boxes of gloves ourselves. With regard to PCR sampling wipers, 73,000 samples are currently available at hospitals. We have already delivered 25,000, of which 10,000 have already been distributed, and we have added 2.5 million. As far as the drugs are concerned, a lot of attention goes to curares and morphines. We have been able to obtain significant stocks over the last few days, so that we will not record pennies there in the next few weeks, but further supplementing that strategic stock remains absolutely a focus. I would like to make one more point about the rational use of resources. We sometimes see a difference between two and three hospitals in terms of the use of the number of materials. I therefore call on the hospitals to report correctly where they are in need and to ensure rational use on the ground. Let me make one final point about testing. Thanks to the joint efforts of universities, biotech labs, pharmaceutical companies and labs, we now have 4,500 tests a day. By the weekend, we'll have 10,000 tests a day, and all I'm talking about is PCR testing. Of course, we are fully aware of how difficult the situation is for residential care centres, where a very vulnerable group of people is present. That is why I decided to roll out 20 000 PCR tests on residential care centres in the next few days as a matter of priority and in cooperation with the regions in order to get a clear picture of which residential care centres are effectively infected, so that the regions there can take appropriate measures and provide additional staff. Of course, a further testing will be possible in the coming days on the basis of this positive identification. Mrs Fonck, it is true that we have banned self tests and home serological tests. The reason is very clear: they are not reliable and are not validated! Will these expensive tests, which do not work and which are not validated, be put on the market? I won't! In the field of antigen testing, we have worked with a Walloon company over the past week to ensure that antigen testing can quickly come onto the market. Of these, two to three thousand kits are now on the market every day, and this number will be further increased in the next few days. We are also, of course, also looking at serological testing, which we are fully validating. Once we have clarity about how we can roll them out over the labs, they too will be involved as market tests and in the strategy, but I will not do so until those immunity tests have passed a clear validation. I will continue to report on the PPM and the masks twice a week, Minister De Block has already said so. I will also continue to report transparently twice a week on the scale of testing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u44	Madam and Mr Ministers, thank you for your answers. In this country, we are fortunate to have a great deal of transparency that allows us to see the reality of the epidemic, because that is not always the case elsewhere. Thanks to this transparency, we can anticipate the needs of our hospitals and, therefore, take care of the patients properly. To do this, the Minister, it is appropriate to hear the requests of physicians and health care personnel. What they are demanding right now is medical equipment, adequate medication and a national plan for the distribution of patients to be hospitalized. I hear that a task force has been mobilised, that everything will be under control and that there will be no shortage of medicines. Today, however, health care staff and doctors tell us the opposite: they worry and sound alarms. In the same way as you consult with the experts, I hope you will consult with the health care staff and the doctors. As they mobilize every day to care for our patients and help us to see the end of this crisis, it is the least they can hear and realize their demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u45	Mr President, Minister, Minister, this crisis is a new area for everyone. However, I would like to make a number of points which are very important. First of all, it's about protecting our heroes at the front. After all, questions about protective equipment and mouth masks are not panic-mongering. On the contrary, that is taking responsibility for the heroes who are doing the work on the ground today. Secondly, I also expect a strong follow-up of medicine policy. I hope we are not heading for shortages. I heard it's fine right now, but I expect a good follow-up to guarantee that. Finally, public health is a group sport today, and we must draw it together. We ask a great deal of our citizens and our heroes at the front. Minister and Minister, please communicate with us often to see if we have everything under control.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u46	Mr President, Minister, Minister, Pharmacists, Home Nurses, people in retirement homes, those who work in psychiatry and in disability care, these are the people who really still have very great needs at the moment. So, Minister, I am quite happy with your list, but I am not entirely reassured, nor am I optimistic. Madam Secretary, I agree with you that we should not all walk the streets with a mouth mask. We certainly agree on that. However, those large deficits were long before people started walking around the street with mouth masks and today I do not see that happening in large numbers. So I'm not comfortable with that. Let me be very clear: sp.a is not the party that wants to start digging in the past, which wants to set up all kinds of investigations. No, we want a solution for now. We want only one thing, we want hard workers to be adequately protected. Madam Secretary, that is your duty. Minister, that is your duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u47	Mr President, Minister, Minister, first of all, we should have 38 million mouth masks as a strategic reserve. We don't have them. It is mainly the people in the front line who are the victims of the fact that we do not have that reserve. Secondly, Mr De Backer, you claim to have everything under control. However, allow me to say that the course so far raises a number of questions, such as the order of 5 million masks that eventually fail and speculators that increase the price at the last minute. It is mainly the people in the care lines who have a lot of questions. Mr De Backer, that is why I have put forward three proposals to put aside the ideology of the market for a moment and to stop the government from being a party asking and begging. The government must be an actor who does not ask for the hundreds of thousands of mouth masks FFP2 and FFP3, which are still in the heavy industry, but simply confiscates. The government must be an actor who acts against the European Union, but also against China and takes out speculators. Finally, it must also ensure that, as in the United States, Spain and Italy, we do not ask for a number of industries, but impose them and invest them so that the textile industry and parts of the automotive sector can invest in mouth masks. The government must now move from a asking and begging government and from a government that is behind the facts to an intervening, active government. Mr De Backer, these are three very constructive proposals which we would like to present to the task force from the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u48	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for their answers, although I am obviously still hungry. All caregivers must also remain hungry with the answers provided. Thank you, Mr De Backer, for the situation. I have no doubt that you are working very hard with the task force to try to buy large quantities of material. Unfortunately, this response is becoming inaudible to all caregivers, whether in hospitals or in the paramedical sector, for our home nurses. These people need to be equipped and they're not because there's an artistic blur. We still don't know how many masks will arrive and when. This contributes to the difficulties they face daily on the ground. So these people can no longer hear this message! Minister, a month ago, almost to the day, this government described the VOCID-19 as a simple flu. Four weeks later, we have more than 6,700 hospitalizations, more than 1100 people in intensive care and 1,011 people who have died only from official figures. In fact, every day we think of these families affected by illness or mourning. We also think every day of the nursing staff who work tirelessly, despite the hard work, despite the discrimination which these women and men are unfortunately subjected to, and despite this sword of Damocles above their heads: to be contaminated or to contaminate their loved ones for lack of necessary protective equipment. Finally, minister, minister, I will end with a sentence that could be read in the press yesterday. It was a warning cry from Brussels hospitals, but I know it's shared by all the hospitals in the country. He said: "Not to believe the dramatic report that is made of the situation is simply to despise and denigrate the enormous work currently done on the ground, with means that are not worthy of this century, of this part of the world, of a welfare state".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The fact that the task force is now in full swing, pleases me and reassures me. The shift of powers seems to have been a positive fact. It will also reassure patients that you will now screen the suppliers for reliability, which happened less in the past. As far as rational use in hospitals is concerned, I don't follow you. I do believe in the expertise of doctors and medical staff in hospitals, who are very consistent with the material they are allocated. As regards the tests, you said that you will not allow the serological tests, as they have not been validated. Why do you bet on the validation of the antigen tests, but not on the validation of the serological tests? It's a little late, Minister. People need to be able to be tested. I repeat what I said in plenary last time. Do your job, take it. I ask you to do your utmost to ensure that patients have medication and, very importantly, oxygen. Madam Secretary, you discussed the capacity and availability of aircraft. I would add the spare parts, as they will become very important. You must also do your utmost to test the patients, as I said, so that they can get to the hospital in time and also find a bed and sufficient staff. Do your best to protect the care providers. That protection is now inadequate. Do your best to train the yard reserve properly, so that when they suddenly end up in an intensive care department, they can work comfortably and with sufficient knowledge and security, and so that they can maintain it, also mentally. You have to bet on that too. They should also be able to be tested so that they know that they can provide optimal care for patients. Our doctors and nurses are moving mountains. I ask you to respect them in deeds and not in words.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u50	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u51	Our N-VA Group will continue to provide solutions. I invite you to accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u52	Mrs De Block, I actually have far too much to say for the two minutes I have here, but I will do my best. The Flemish umbrella organisation of holiday parks and campsites Reread tells us that your services are putting pressure on them to quickly provide more places for asylum seekers. It would even have been said to them that "non-cooperation could have serious consequences." First of all, what are these degout communist practices? Let them choose whether or not to make their property available to asylum seekers instead of intimidating them in this way. Secondly, why do you now need additional places for asylum seekers? Just like many other countries, the right to asylum is temporary. Our country is in need and hundreds of people die every day. It is not the time to focus on getting more asylum seekers to Belgium. In fact, there is currently pure chaos in the asylum centres. The corona guidelines are not complied with at all. The asylum seekers forces still together in the village centers and go to the supermarket in groups. This way they not only endanger themselves, but also other people. An anonymous member of the Red Cross even testifies that most of the asylum seekers do not even know what the corona virus is. However, those are the people who will pay our pensions later, if we can believe you. All this has led to many mayors now begging for asylum seekers to finally go into lockdown like the rest of Flanders. After all, it is absurd that the Flemings should remain indoors, while asylum seekers are allowed to walk outside. That is almost as absurd as the practices of Minister Geens, who does legislate to punish the Flemings if they dare to come out, but at the same time releases as many prisoners as possible. Mrs de Block, why do you now, during this corona crisis, want to receive more asylum seekers? Are you finally going to put those asylum seekers in lockdown? Why do the police, the guards and the people working in the asylum-seekers' centres still not have enough mouth masks? Do you realize what kind of disaster comes to us when these people are about to strike, as they quite rightly announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u53	Mr Van Langenhove, Fedasil follows the recommendations for the residential collections of the Risk Assessment Group, the scientific team that advises the government on this. Those recommendations do not require a lockdown of a centre when establishing a confirmed or suspected COVID-19 case, but to isolate the sick person as much as possible from the other residents. The necessary measures have therefore been taken to this end. Fedasil follows the situation and continuously issues the necessary instructions and measures to translate the general guidelines of Public Health into the reality of the reception centres. Residents are intensively sensitized, of course, in their language about the usefulness of hygiene measures and the need to keep distance and to limit contacts. The reception centres also remain in close contact with the mayors and provincial governors concerned in order to discuss any concerns and make joint arrangements. The measures are being followed and serious action is being taken against flagrant violations. The lockdown of a centre is a discriminatory and disproportionate measure, as it is not necessary to protect public health. We adhere to the measures recommended by the scientists. As you know, the infection of the virus is not only spread throughout the Belgian territory, but actually all over the world. One thing is for sure: the virus doesn't distinguish between size, color, age, gender or anything, and that might be a good thing. I understand the concerns of local authorities and the population, but in this crisis it is necessary to keep a cool head and not unilaterally impose additional measures on reception centres that are of no use from the point of view of public health. We have therefore worked on a uniform approach, involving prior consultation with Fedasil and the provincial governor on measures envisaged by a local authority and following the recommendations of the public health experts. If necessary, additional expert advice may also be requested. It is only through joint consultation that we can reach agreements and measures that protect public health, the inhabitants of the centre, the safety of the inhabitants, but also the people who work there and the inhabitants of the municipality equally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u54	Madam Secretary, you say we should remain calm, but perhaps you should have stayed a little less calm over the last few months. By the way, are we supposed to believe anything you say here, Mrs. De Block? You lied that our country was prepared for the corona crisis. You lied that it was about, I quote, "a mild flu that was under control." You've made doctors who warned you out of drama queens. You lied that there was no point in placing people returning from Wuhan or Lombardy in quarantine. You've ridiculed mayors who took measures of their own. You lied that you would order the mouth masks from authorized suppliers. You were then sacked by Turkish fraudsters. You then lied about the usefulness of those masks, because it is your fault that there are not enough. Just at a time when citizens should be able to rely on government guidelines, you lied. You must work in the interests of the citizen. You must watch over the health of the people. You need to make sure there are enough mouth masks for anyone who comes into contact with others. If you can't, Mrs. De Block, we'll find someone who can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u55	Mr Van Langenhove, can you pay some attention to your language, or is that too much to ask?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u56	I've certainly thought about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u57	You've thought this through, haven't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u58	The masks are falling off. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, we have just witnessed an inappropriate media operation by Proximus in view of the period of confinement we are living in. I am clear: Proximus imposes 5G on us in the various communes without warning anyone, nor the mayors, nor the aldermen, nor the municipal administrations. It was through the media that we discovered the arrival of 5G in various communes in our country. Of course, we are not opposed to evolution, but we are not insensitive either to the various scientists who warn us about the impact of the arrival of 5G on public health. Mr Minister, I would therefore ask you to urge Proximus to re-engage the entire operation. Proximus must first contact the municipalities so that they can work with the citizens. At that time, we can talk calmly about the arrival or not of the 5G. It is also clear that we would like to know more about the impact on public health. At this time, however, we know more than ever what the price of our health is. It is also important to note that 5G is being announced, while, in the current situation of containment, the inhabitants of some villages still do not have the possibility of teleworking in the absence of high-speed Internet. I come from a rural area with a low population density. I am thinking in particular of the village of Parette, which has 123 inhabitants. It is not actually 1 million inhabitants or 300 000 inhabitants. Nevertheless, these 123 inhabitants must have access to minimum public services, like all others. Minister, we are demanding from Proximus a much more efficient minimum public service so that, even in sparsely populated rural areas, we can telework. I'm counting on you to do this, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u60	Mr President, Mr Arens, it is true that 5G will first be deployed for industrial applications, therefore for industrial areas, ports, major cities and major road nodes. The draft text for auctioning the 5G frequencies provides for greater coverage obligations than for 4G. The hedging obligations rise to 99.8%. These obligations currently amount to 99.5 per cent. In the long run, 5G will also be an alternative for white areas without fast fixed internet. Indeed, 5G makes it possible to obtain fibre-optic speeds in places where it would not be profitable to make earthworks for the fixed internet. Quite often, it would be profitable in these places to plan the fast internet via a 5G tower. I now turn to precautions and transparency towards businesses and citizens regarding radiation. It is not because technology changes, and 2G becomes 4G or 5G – we are already creating 6G – that radiation in this part of the spectrum, called radio waves, also changes. This can be compared to another technology. It is not because we have passed from candles to oil lamps, then to incandescent lamps, neon tubes, economical lamps and LED lighting, that the radiation that is called "spectrum of light" changes. There's nothing to worry about. International standards are determined for this purpose, primarily to avoid exposure and excessive warming. The relay antenna is far too far away to cause any effect. The radiation intensity decreases on a logarithmic scale. The gsm that is against your ear has much more impact on microwaves than you receive than the pylons involved in 5G.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u61	Minister, your answer is far from satisfying me. Finally, I didn't get a real answer. Excuse me! As I told you, we know what public health is worth. Nothing is known about the impact of 5G on public health. The mayors are completely ignored, as are the communes. Long live Proximus! How is it possible for such a large company to act as it has just done? It's pure provocation in the midst of a period of confinement. I'm not gonna let it go. We'll talk about it again in committee. I don't accept this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u62	Everybody stay calm!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u63	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our businesses are now experiencing extremely difficult times. Many of them are slowing down, while others are almost at a standstill, mainly due to problems with the supply of raw materials or spare parts necessary for the proper functioning of the production and packaging chains. For other companies, downstream distribution channels have closed. The government took fast – and that's very good – essential steps. I am thinking in particular of temporary unemployment, the postponement of VAT and prepayments. That said, our companies – which have almost all stopped production – must continue to bear very high fixed costs, in terms of renting buildings, leasing, maintenance equipment of the production tool and also incompressible charges. Many are likely to be exsangued when we emerge from this crisis. The future of our industries, businesses and SMEs is not yet in jeopardy, but it will be very problematic, especially in terms of liquidity and even solvency. In response to this crisis, the government recently established the Economic Risk Management Group, which is chaired by the Governor of the National Bank of Belgium. Its tasks include providing a continuous analysis of the economic situation and developing proposals for measures. Minister, in view of the situation, do you have more details on the economic impact of the crisis, particularly in the main sectors of our country's economy? Then, what is the approach of these expert groups that need to look at the rescue of our economy? How will they cooperate with our companies? What are the main avenues studied?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u64	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis is a global crisis that affects all continents with enormous consequences for public health but also for the economy. The OECD has made a number of calculations. A lockdown of 3 months means a decrease in economic growth by 6%. They're talking about a shrinkage of 10 %. That is a great deal for companies and people. That's why we've got the next message. Keeping working is therefore an act of solidarity: caring for the elderly, caring for the sick, supplying shops, providing waste collection and many other support services. Keeping working is crucial in the coming weeks, also in order to restart our economy, knowing that a healthy economy is the foundation of our welfare state. We need to think about that already. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has announced that she is taking the necessary initiatives, because an efficient and well-thought-out relay strategy is urgently needed because we need to re-launch our businesses and ensure that employment is guaranteed in the future. That won't only happen by pumping money into the circuit. The word bazooka was used a lot, but that's like antibiotics. If one uses it too much, one becomes immune and has no effect. We also know that this has to be paid for by the next generations. Madam Minister, do you also intend to take measures to provide work in other sectors, such as ornamental farming or agriculture, where there is a need? How will you involve the social partners in this relay strategy in order to make our economy strong for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u65	Colleagues, last week the Economic Risk Management Group was briefly discussed here. Mr Wunsch, governor of the National Bank, and Mr Piet Vanthemsche, who has earned his victory in the dioxin crisis, took the lead as co-chairs. On that occasion, I also highlighted a number of important tasks that this working group is carrying out for our economy. I recall here: to measure the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on our businesses, sectors and financial markets, to ensure that our businesses and critical infrastructure continue to function (business continuity), to propose to the government measures against the crisis and to play a coordinating role in this regard and to consider measures to ensure a smooth restart of our economy after the health crisis. There is also a division of tasks between the two Presidents. Today, Mr Vanthemsche is mainly concerned with everything related to business continuity and the link with public health, while Mr Wunsch is leading eight working groups, mainly working on economic and financial aspects. I'll run them over briefly. Here is an overview of the eight working groups: "Survey of the real-time economy", "Macroeconomic forecasts and scenarios", "Budget implications" (and figures for measures), "Return to the ground" (problems and proposals for measures), "Financing and support for large enterprises", "Financing and support for SMEs and the self-employed", "Financing and support for individuals and workers" and "Communication". It is within these working groups that all proposals for economic recovery are drawn up. Colleagues, in everything we have done so far, our first focus is on health and health aspects, and that must still be the case today. Secondly, as far as the health of our economic fabric is concerned, I believe that the measures on technical unemployment have supported not only the purchasing power of citizens but also the financial capacity of our companies. Temporary unemployment is also important when we start relance. We will then be able to re-enlist our employees. They are also very easily re-usable. As has already been mentioned here, we have also provided a substantial liquidity injection through various measures. It concerns both delays of payments and bank guarantees in the context of loans. Moreover, it is important that the Economic Risk Management Group now monitors the economic situation of our Belgian companies, in the sectors and sub-sectors. The group analyses and formulates recommendations to assess where liquidity problems arise in the short term and to counter any solvency issues in a timely manner. These are very important aspects, also with a view to a step-by-step standardisation of our economic activity. Mr Leysen, you asked about the state of employment of workers. We are in the process of listing the needs in the sectors. For example, there is the demand of the food and distribution sector, of the care and certainly also of the agricultural and horticultural sector, which in the short term needs 15,000 additional labour to be able to plant, sow and harvest and carry out all the associated tasks. The government is in the process of formulating possible responses. What ERMG does is very important. The ERMG is in touch today, but it is also looking at what strong measures can be taken with a view to a relance through good monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u66	Colleagues Friart and Leysen, you will have a double speaking time for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u67	Mr President, this time I will try to stick to the time allotted to me. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I agree with you, in any case, with regard to the health aspect that is most important today. We need to deal with this first. Subsequently, the economic and financial aspects will have to be dealt with very quickly. In this regard, the Economic Risk Management Group will have to play its part. It will also be important for the federal, regional and business sectors to continue to agree as best they can. In my view, all entrepreneurs must be supported in the best possible way. Indeed, they show great resilience, a willingness to bounce back. If we can continue to help them with federal and regional support, our economy will be much better in the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The day is approaching when we can shift the focus again from caring and mourning to rebuilding and ensuring the prosperity of our generation and future generations. We must lay the groundwork now. I think it is important for solidarity to be widely supported, in North and South, in government and private. Above all, we must learn lessons from this period. We learn that we must be agile in exceptional circumstances, but also agile in a changing world. We learn that we need to be manoeuvrable in terms of working in companies. We now see numerous examples of this. Also agile in government, and probably also in regulation, so that we can all build the future together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has now been 20 days – and I am not teaching you anything – since the country is living in confinement and its economic activity is slowing down. The health of our citizens is, remains and will of course remain the highest priority. The government has taken a great deal of action since the beginning of the crisis to enable our businesses and our self-employed people to make the most of this period of health and economic crisis. They are a real breath of oxygen for them. As far as workers are concerned, measures have been taken to ensure their safety and health as best as possible, but also to safeguard their employment and purchasing power to the maximum extent possible. That was one of the commitments of this government. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, Minister, and the government as a whole, for paying attention to each of these aspects since the beginning of the crisis, but also for remaining so. According to a Stepstone study, 33 per cent of workers are now out of work; 44 per cent of them telework, but 23 per cent continue to go to their workplaces. First of all, as far as workers with temporary unemployment are concerned, it seems that delays are announced in the payment of unemployment benefits. As a first step, I would like to know if you confirm this information. If so, what are the solutions identified by ONEM to remedy this situation? In comparison with workers who continue to visit their workplaces, however, there are still difficulties in some sectors every day. Minister, some retail stores have gone on strike while the vast majority of them have entered into social agreements. Is there a contagion effect to be feared? How can we ensure that this sector, which is so essential for us and for all citizens, can continue to work? In the service securities sector, there are different positionings according to the regions. Do you not think that there should be a common position from the federal government, which would ensure the safety and above all the health of all workers, in accordance with the rules governing the distribution of competences? Finally, some voices are raised to allow workers who are currently temporarily unemployed to work for other sectors of activity currently in dire need of labour. We're thinking about seasonal work. What is your position on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u70	Even in these difficult times, traditions must be respected. I congratulate our colleague, Mr Mathieu Bihet, on his Mayden speech. (Applause)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u71	Mr President, Mr Bihet, thank you for your many questions which I will try to answer. I understand, of course, that the workers are worried during this crisis. As far as food distribution disorders are concerned, we are following closely the situation: the chairman of the relevant Joint Committee reports to us. An agreement has already been reached by a number of large companies and, in any event, we call for a sense of responsibility and consultation. Your question about the service securities sector will be addressed in the answer to your colleague Thémont's question. I agree with you that we need a common position on this issue. Let us not forget that this sector is essential for care services as well as for social assistance. It's also very important. As for monitoring the well-being of workers at work, the Occupational Well-Being Inspection monitors the situation on the ground and conducts inspections. In this context, awareness-raising is the most important task, but companies that clearly break the rules are closed. On Friday, there were 11 of them. I'm still waiting for the numbers for this week. For those sectors where there is a shortage of labour as a result of the coronavirus crisis, for example because of the usual use of seasonal workers, a proposal is now on the table which would allow for example temporary unemployed people to work in these sectors. As for those who have a certificate from their attending physician that they are ill, they must of course stay at home. People who are not sick are supposed to work. Telework must be exploited to the maximum extent and the rules on social distancing must be respected. Non-essential enterprises that are unable to comply will close their doors and may resort to temporary unemployment. Persons who have to remain in quarantine and who cannot do telework may also resort to temporary unemployment. In the case of essential enterprises, the aim is also to use telework as much as possible and to apply social distancing and, where appropriate, to take additional preventive measures if the nature of the work so requires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u72	Madam Minister, I thank you for these answers which bring some clarity to the workers, particularly with regard to social agreements. For the payment of unemployment benefits, it is important that this problem be addressed. Some workers have bills, rents or loans to pay and this delay should not lead to further difficulties and perverse cascading effects. For those who continue to work, it is important to ensure that their work is carried out in optimal safety conditions. We must be able to bring them maximum security and serenity. The MR will be very attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u73	Minister, do you know how much the person who comes to work at home in service titles earns? An amount of 11.50 euros gross per hour. Do you know how many hours on average represent the contracts of these workers? It's about 9:00. Do you know how many domestic helpers in service titles work in Belgium and how many customers? These are 140,000 workers for a million users. Neither you nor I are virologists, Madam Minister. Nevertheless, we can agree on one point: this chain of work is dangerous. While today we are talking about confinement and social distancing, it must be noted that today these people will work with families with children, who are confined, but also with older people. This is a risk to everyone. In what society do we live in if we cannot immediately help these workers who, for the most part, do not even earn a thousand euros gross per month? My group leader wrote you a letter in this regard asking you to suspend the activity of these service titles, with the exception of domestic shopping. Obviously, a solution must be found quickly that allows these workers to stay at home by keeping their wages. If you refuse to make such a decision, minister, you leave these workers unprotected and you force them to choose between their health and their low income. Wallonia and Brussels have taken on their responsibilities: compensation will be suspended and guaranteed. Both workers and employers have asked the federal government to take on its responsibilities as well. Suspend these service securities activities while ensuring that wages are maintained. If you do not move, you now allow some companies to put pressure on these workers by asking them to resume their activity. We're putting health at risk. You know that there are single women with children who do not have a plan B and who are forced to continue working; they are at the mercy of the worst excesses in the market. My questions are as follows, minister, they are very simple. I ask you to protect these workers by putting an end to the activities of the service titles and guaranteeing their wages during this period of confinement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Thémont, I am aware of the concern in the sector. I received the letter from the PS, but I also hear opposing positions. Some want to close the area; others want to turn it on. It's not easy for me. Also remember that the securities service sector is one of the sectors considered essential by the National Security Council, where you are represented. This concerns the provision of care and social assistance services to vulnerable audiences. It's also important. With regard to the non-essential aspect, it is very important that the employer be required to implement and comply with all preventive measures, including social distancing. In view of the specific working situation of workers, no general decision can be taken. The situation should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If the rules on social distancing cannot be respected, the company must close. If social distancing rules can be respected, work can continue. When, in a family where one gives help, a person is ill or placed in quarantine, one speaks of a dangerous situation, and of course work is not allowed. The federal authority is exclusively competent for working conditions and general rules concerning the safety and protection of workers at work. The employer must, as far as possible, take preventive measures to minimise the risks to workers, for example by providing personal protective equipment such as disposable gloves. All your questions concerning the financing of service securities undertakings fall within the competence of the Regions. In doing so, the issues relating to the remuneration of workers in this sector do not fall within my purview.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u75	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, which obviously does not satisfy me. Indeed, you know very well that in Wallonia and Brussels, employers' federations in the field of service certificates and trade unions have spoken with one and the same voice. They decided to suspend the activity in order to protect the safety of workers and customers. I want to hear that workers must be protected. But since there are already insufficient masks and gloves for hospitals, how can we provide them to this sector? You are making an incomprehensible choice in the eyes of my group, Madam Minister. The poorest workers must be protected. And I insist: their health, their social rights must also be respected. I would like to conclude my speech with a special thought for those workers whose social utility has no price, those workers who do not have a large wage, and for whom little interest was expressed, before the crisis of the coronavirus. I am thinking of these women and men who we find normal working on Sundays to allow us to do our shopping on Sundays. I am thinking of these women and men who help us clean our houses for less than 1,000 euros a month; of those women and men who care for our children from dawn, sometimes until an early hour; of those women and men who clean our streets and work for hours sometimes without counting. I could go on because the list is very long. After the health crisis, we will have to go further than our thanks and applause. We will have to think of a society where the social utility of trades will be valued. We will have to improve the working and pay conditions of these women and men who deserve more than applause.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, looking back on the experience of the last part-session, we have agreed rules for the organisation of Question Time. These apply both to Members of Parliament and to the government. The speaking time is limited. I can assure you that, for the attractiveness of our debates, it is better to set out a few points and answer them briefly, instead of falling back into kind of semi-conferences – to say so. You say "no," Mrs. Thémont, but I found that almost every one of you exceeded her speaking time. In view of the exceptional circumstances, I am indeed somewhat more flexible, but there are limits in speaking time. Take it from me. Tell your employees, or if you prepare the texts yourself, be brief. This applies both to Members of Parliament and to members of the government. There must be a balance between the two.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u77	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents today, I propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: - the motion for a resolution (MM. Reccino Van Lommel, Tom Van Grieken and Erik Gilissen) concerning the payment of unpaid undisputed invoices to the federal authorities, No. 1127/1; - the bill (Mrs. Karin Jiroflée, Mr. Jan Bertels and Ms. Meryame Kitir) amending the coordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals and other care facilities, with regard to victims of the pandemic caused by the coronavirus VOCID-19, with regard to fee supplements, No. 1129/1; - the bill (Mrs Ellen Samyn, Mr Tom Van Grieken, Ms Barbara Pas, Mr Dries Van Langenhove and Mrs Dominiek Sneppe) to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry to examine how the government managed the coronavirus crisis (VOCID-19 virus), No. 1130/1; - the draft law (Ms. Kathleen Depoorter) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to advance payments for the 2021 tax year, No. 1131/1. In accordance with the opinion of today's Conference of Presidents, I propose that you consider and send to the committee responsible: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Reccino Van Lommel, Mr Tom Van Grieken and Mr Erik Gilissen) on the payment of uncontested outstanding invoices to the Federal Government, No. 1127/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Karin Jiroflée, Mr Jan Bertels and Mrs Meryame Kitir) amending the law on hospitals and other care facilities, coordinated on 10 July 2008, as regards the Supplements of Honor for the victims of the pandemic caused by the Coronavirus COVID-19, No. 1129/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Ellen Samyn, Mr Tom Van Grieken, Mrs Barbara Pas, Mr Dries Van Langenhove and Mrs Dominiek Sneppe) setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the approach taken by the government of the coronavirus (COVID-19 virus), No. 1130/1; - the bill (Mrs Kathleen Depoorter) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards advance payments for the tax year 2021, No. 1131/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-02-55-plenair-ip034x.u78	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, April 9, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 April 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
