ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u2	Minister, for five years, we have repeatedly denounced the budget cuts that your government has imposed on our judiciary, but also the lack of magistrates, the lack of clerks, experts, psychiatrists, the lack of training of judicial actors involved throughout the criminal chain, the lack of follow-up of sex offenders. You then told us that these savings measures, and that these staff shortages ultimately affected all services and not only justice, except, Minister, that justice is not a service like any other. This is our third constituted power. It is this power that makes it possible to balance our democracy and ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. Today, it is no longer only the members of the opposition who tell you, it is no longer only lawyers, judges or the European Court of Human Rights. It is parents, citizens who tell you, in this case, parents who believe that their daughter would still be alive if the judiciary had been able to function properly, if their daughter's repeat offender could have been arrested and tried within a reasonable time, as the European Convention on Human Rights obliges us to do. These parents are all about making sure Julie isn't dead for nothing. It is true, Minister, that we can no longer wait for other tragedies to revive our justice and genuinely ensure that sexual violence is treated to the extent of its seriousness. Minister, my question is very simple. What steps have you taken and what steps are you going to take to ensure that our justice is revived and that the opinions of the Supreme Council of Justice, the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the more than legitimate demands of Julie's parents are answered?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u3	The report of the Supreme Court of Justice following the murder of Julie Van Espen was devastating for the Antwerp justice system. In response to that report, the family sent a letter containing a number of urgent policy recommendations. This has happened in a serene and very dignified way. That deserves our utmost respect. However, the determination is very strict. Without the established mistakes, Julie would still be alive. That's their conclusion, and it's gonna hit hard. Unfortunately, it is not the first time that the Justice Department has been critically criticised. Unfortunately, however, we have to note that each time dramatic events are needed to get something really moving. That is what history has shown. Today is another one of those moments. It is time to carry out thorough reforms. More than ever, there is a need for major reforms, as it were, a sort of marshal's plan for justice. Let us first of all agree that we are giving absolute priority at all levels to the police, the police, the public prosecutor, the court, and always the case of sexual abuse. It should never happen again that such files end up at the bottom of a pile. In fact, they should always be at the top of a pile, at every level, over and over again. In Parliament, there is a solid basis for real work, beyond the borders of all parties. Minister, what is your response? What is your answer to that report from the Supreme Court, but also to the letter from the Van Espen family?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u4	Respect. The Van Espen family demands immense respect. The letter from the family is impressive. The family members quite rightly complain about the abuses in the Justice Department, but at the same time manage to provide solutions on how to do better and better. That's superhuman. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be humble. Let us learn and listen. Let us continue with the proposals put forward by the Van Espen family. The death of Julie Van Espen is a terrible tragedy. It would be totally unacceptable if we did not do everything possible to avoid a similar tragedy in the future. Fortunately, things have already happened in the Chamber in recent times, but much more can and must be done. For example, it is unacceptable for judges in our country to take decisions on the basis of incomplete files due to a lack of information flow. It is also unacceptable that in our country not all suspects of sexual crimes are systematically observed and monitored. It is unacceptable that there should be little follow-up in our country to magistrates who make serious mistakes, because there is no full committee J. Minister, will you ensure that the mandatory observation of suspects of sexual offences becomes the norm and not the exception? What further steps are we taking together to improve the supervision of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u5	I am very surprised that the left-wing parties are drumming here. After all, when it comes to crime and morals, we must always understand the perpetrator. Dialog! dialog! Those criminals always deserve a second chance for the left, a third chance. Never repression, always prevention. Now, dear left-wing friends, it is by promoting such a soft approach that there will be serious crime. But my question was not addressed to colleagues from the left, Minister. Minister None, I may surprise you; you are not only blamed in the matter. We are on the side of the parents, who say that justice should be called man and horse. That is where mistakes have been made. At the same time, you will be blamed if you come to the newspaper now to declare that more money has to go to the Justice Department. That is quite a punishment for a Minister of Justice who had one thread in his policy over the last five years, namely saving, saving, saving. And that was not to spare here in Parliament, to Members of Parliament or to the senators. No, that was saving on the core tasks of the government, on Justice and Security. Mr Minister, my question is clear and clear. What will you finally do so that dramas such as the murder of Julie Van Espen can no longer happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what happened to Julie Van Espen should never have happened. What happened to Julie Van Espen should never happen again in the future. Can we, as a society, guarantee a zero risk? No, unfortunately, we can't. We can, however, ensure that the errors made in the file are not avoided in the future. The Supreme Court of Justice has produced a very clear report. Julie's parents have made a very serene but firm analysis of that. They expect action from politics. Most political parties, whether they are left-wing or right-wing, have today indicated that they want to start working on these recommendations. We have done this, for example, by submitting a proposal in January following a recommendation to extend the conditions for a suspect, currently limited to three months, until someone comes to court effectively. What else can Parliament do? We can make sure that there are sufficient resources for justice. But, ladies and gentlemen, those who have read the report must conclude that it clearly shows that much has gone wrong in the internal organisation of the court, in particular at the court of appeal. Vice files deserve our absolute priority. If everyone, as a result of the terrible drama, were to take up their responsibilities, we would be one step further. Even a magistrate who makes mistakes is not above the law. Mr President, my question is brief and concise and the same as the previous speakers. What will we do with the recommendations in the short term? Do you intend to follow up and implement these recommendations together with the legislative authority in the short term in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u7	Mr President, Julie Van Espen was brutally murdered. A shock went through my heart. A shock went through our country. Now Julie's parents have written an open letter. Did you read that letter, Minister? It says, "Julie would still be alive if everyone within the court had taken responsibility." The parents have set nine priorities. I will take one out for you: 'Provide a thorough training in the field of sexual violence by police forces, prosecutors and magistrates, but also by the judicial assistants, who are often young and inexperienced'. Just last week, two young Liege students saw how the court acquitted their perpetrator because the girls would have agreed. Everyone knows the three possible reactions to rape: fighting, fleeing or freezing. How can one judge freezing as consent? The problem is very clear, Minister. It's a lack of training. Julie's parents confirm that in their open letter, but also the Supreme Court of Justice said that last year and women's rights organisations have been standing on the barricades for years. Belgium does not respect the Istanbul Convention. I very much agree with Julie's parents when they say that the fight against violence against women is not a priority in Belgium. Minister, an inter-ministerial conference is currently taking place in our country. The aim is to draw up an action plan. Please look at Spain. 200 measures are being taken there. EUR 200 million per year is also earmarked for the fight against violence against women. How many measures will you take and what budget will you allocate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the murder of Julie Van Espen is a murder that has carved deep into the heart of every righteous person. You can rest assured that this has been the case with me and that at such a time a minister must come to terms with his conscience, with the Justice Department and with the next of kin. I do not want to say much more about the emotional aspect at the moment. A few weeks ago, in the context of the report by the Supreme Court of Justice, we held a wide-ranging debate on that report in the Committee on Justice. Everyone has been able to express their opinion, including your servant. I have done so in more detail than I might have liked, because the matter has taken hold of me very strongly. I refer you to the committee's report to know what can be done in depth on a number of points, because my speaking time is now limited. Let me be clear about one thing: there is no such thing as zero risk. I have been arguing for a long time, and not for the first time, Mr van Grieken, with conviction for more resources for justice, but one can never come to an absolute zero risk. I very much regret that, because it is about deep human suffering. Could this have been avoided? The report of the Supreme Court of Justice says what it says. I am particularly pleased that in the 1990s this Parliament set up the High Council because it reports on what has happened between Parliament, the Minister and the judiciary and in an objective manner. I think it is very important to make you realize that we have not spared the past legislature on justice. The resources for the judiciary have increased from EUR 634 million to EUR 694 million. The total budget has not fallen in nominal terms, but we have made a special effort for the judicial system. After the events took place, I immediately sat down with all colleagues from my immediate neighbourhood who were responsible for Education, Health and Home Affairs on the Flemish side. Because we were in full election campaign, I limited myself to my Flemish colleagues. I then worked out a comprehensive plan in the fight against sexual violence, to which I referred. Was that the first plan? No, a lot has happened against sexual violence. This plan contains a number of new elements which have been communicated to whom they should be communicated. In the framework of the negotiations, these elements will be used to lay further new emphasis. People know about it. I will also give a very confidential but detailed answer to the Van Espen family, whom I greatly appreciate. I've never seen people in distress so worthy. I have never been so grateful to people for what they are trying to do with this unimaginable event for the common good. Let me give you two examples that are already working. There are many more in the parliamentary preparation. First of all, the sexual care centers that receive someone immediately after a crime has occurred. Secondly, the observation centre that is currently operating in Saint Gillis' prison, which is giving priority to sexual violence. The training on sexual violence which the IGO is to provide to magistrates is also about to take place. May I remind you that a number of years ago in this Chamber I was the subject of unimaginably many scoundrels when I dared to say that it might be appropriate for magistrates to give specific training on this subject, like all the others involved in this matter? All these points are also shared. I fought in the Inter-Ministerial Conference to combat violence against women. All these points are dealt with in an interministerial way and this is as good as it can be. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that you are all very much underlining that the organisation of the courts is a competence of the independent judiciary. The only thing I can tell you about this is that there are a number of provisions in the Judicial Code, but not very much. If desired, we can all work together to improve this organisation internally. Firstly, however, that is the responsibility of the judiciary. Colleagues, the appointments to the Magistrate have been made with great speed in recent years. I have pointed out to you on several occasions that if we fail, this is due to a lack of influx because we have difficulty finding enough candidates. However, you must not claim that this is only due to a lack of resources. That's contrary to the truth. Otherwise, at the levels where it is necessary, I will continue to do my utmost to avoid cases like this in the future. Once again, I would like to thank the Van Espen family and her counsel, who have done a great deal of good for the cause in general. I can't thank them enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u9	Minister, thank you for the strength and dignity of your remarks. I also thank you for actually initiating this action plan against sexual violence. But it must be noted that this remains largely insufficient in the face of a justice system in which citizens no longer have confidence because they are no longer in a position to ensure their safety. Of course, zero risk does not exist. This cannot be assured, but efforts must be made to prevent these crimes as much as possible. This situation has prompted Parliament to work and not wait for a full-fledged government to table texts, to deal with this issue of violence against women, but also, for example, to make it compulsory to follow up on sexual offenders both during their imprisonment and when they leave prison. In particular, I am targeting people who are struggling and who are at real risk of being time bombs for our society. Mr Minister, I hope that we can count on your cooperation with these texts and on your political will. I am speaking to you as bearer of the royal informant cap so that you may bring together all the democratic parties that want to restore this justice and not the parties that are instrumentalizing this tragedy for electoral purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u10	Minister, we urgently need to move from the planning stage to the action stage. For example, you refer to the sexual care centers. There are already three in the country that function properly, but there are seven other provinces waiting for such a centre. I call on the Minister to provide funding, including on-going matters, for those care centres in the other provinces to be set up as well. It is also the time to really reform the justice system. For this, we must work together across the borders of majority and opposition, together with the government in current cases. This is not a matter of left or right, this is not a matter of majority or opposition, this is a matter of taking responsibility, even in a period of current cases. You alluded to the need for a firm programme on this issue to be included in a subsequent government agreement. That is what we are asking for and will put on the table if we get that chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u11	Let's get this over with. Mr van Grieken, what you say is shameless. Your political recovery is truly shameless. That is completely contrary to the very dignified attitude of the parents. Minister, we are very pleased that, after 20 years, a penitentiary observation centre has finally been set up, so pay tribute to that. We have been in favour of this for a long time. At the same time, we are concerned. In the Pieter Baan Centrum in the Netherlands, with a very similar concept, the bestaffining is many times higher, and so we are a bit afraid and concerned that sexual offenders will still be able to slip through the loopholes of the net. For us, it is very clear that mandatory observation and therefore the proper follow-up of suspects of sexual offences should be the rule, not the exception. In addition, we count on your support to strengthen the supervision of Justice. We will, of course, continue to support this with our group in the Chamber, across party boundaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but it was rather inconspicuous. There were many promises and plans again. In the meantime, you've made more promises than you've created extra prison places. According to Flemish Interest, Justice needs three new cases. Firstly, we are talking about new legislation with stricter penalties, especially in the field of vice. Secondly, new prisons must be created so that impunity is over. Thirdly, we also need a new Minister of Justice. Over the past 13 years, your party, CD&V, has delivered the Minister of Justice for ten years. Colleagues, there is one fact that we cannot ignore. On 4 May 2019, Julie Van Espen's killer should have just been in prison instead of walking around freely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We can only show respect today for the way Julie's family deals with this terrible drama. The Supreme Court of Justice has effectively done a solid job with its report, and we must now ensure that these recommendations are followed as quickly as possible across party boundaries. The family asks that, and it's our assignment, too. Parliament must do what it can and must do to give absolute priority to the fight against violence against women. In this case it was not only a lack of resources, but also a proper organisation of a court is a must for managers. For us Liberals, the independence of justice and the separation of powers are sacred concepts, especially when it comes to making judgments. However, this independence cannot in any way be a frivolous excuse for irresponsibility. That's what today is about. Parliament will therefore show its commitment in the short term. If everyone does that, including on the ground, maybe we can make sure that nobody ever has to go through that again or at least nobody has to read what Julie's parents got to read in this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u14	Mr Minister, speaking time was limited just now, and I would actually ask you not to come up with an answer on waiting for negotiations. We women have the right to have an answer now. But it was worse, because you did not answer my question at all. However, my question was very simple, namely how many measures you would take and what budget you would provide for it. We will continue to ask you that question until you answer it. On 8 March, on International Women's Day, the PVDA will be on the streets for all women, including Julie, to increase the pressure until a real action plan for combating violence against women is put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u15	Minister, the process on the attacks on 22 March will last for at least nine months. Thirty thousand guilt questions will have to be answered by a jury. Thirty-six jurors will have to make themselves available indefinitely throughout that period in order to carry out that task. Three times as many magistrates, both from the seat and from the parquet, will have to be made available, so that the process will also have an impact on other matters. In Brussels, this will lead to more delays in justice. Hundreds of security officers and police officers will have to be at their disposal for nine months in order to guarantee security and ensure the transport of the accused. Twenty million euros will cost the process, it is estimated at the moment. But those costs are likely to increase. The case is also particularly complex, which increases the risk of procedural errors and increases the likelihood of the process being repeated. The victims will also have to endure the horrific events again for nine months. Some of these victims have already indicated that they are having a particularly difficult time with this. They ask whether they will receive sufficient psychological assistance throughout the period. All these arguments are not new, Minister. They were already notified to you by the College of Attorney General in October last year. Recently there was also the petition of the federal prosecutor, Frédéric Van Leeuw, to abolish the court of assists. We at N-VA have long been in favour of abolishing the court of assistants. The process will be a huge challenge. It shows once again that the assistance procedure is hopelessly out of date. Minister, I have only one question for you: do I find you an ally in order to achieve the necessary two-thirds majority in Parliament and to bring that almost impossible task to a successful conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the seriousness of the problem, I would like to say for once that I have won a thousand percent for the expansion of sexual care centres in current cases and for the compulsory succession of people who are at the end of their sentence, after their punishment has ended, without being subject to conditions. I will help all those parliamentarians who support it with great diligence. You have a partner in me, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, since 2015. You know that. I have made every effort to ease the assistance procedure and to make it necessary only in cases where there was no desire to correct it. However, that measure was annulled by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, I do not need to remind you that at the time all the alternatives I proposed in the government were unable to find support, because the one party felt that the Assiseen Jury should be abolished altogether while the others felt that the Assiseen Jury should be kept as much as possible. If today the Attorney General is arguing, they have issued that opinion at my request for a restriction of the assistance procedure to terrorist cases and to organized banditism, that is, not for terrorist cases and not for organized banditism, but for all matters of common law, then they know that they have my support. Personally, I would prefer the assistance procedure to disappear completely, but that is a personal vision. I've been won for a compromise. However, if terrorism and organised banditism are to be incorporated into the Constitution, it must be borne in mind that these are not full terms, nor are they print-press crimes and political crimes. Whether there is an assistance procedure or not, the process will be organised in the best possible terms and conditions in a material and infrastructure manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We are on the same page. It will be an almost impossible task to bring the trial on the attacks of 22 March before an assassin jury. Colleagues, I call on all parties to cooperate and take an initiative. Let us make preparations to ensure that the process of terrorism goes smoothly and smoothly, so that the justice system does not make another fool of itself. I think we owe that to the victims. The population in general is also entitled to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u18	Mr President, Minister, the Limburg miners are angry. They're very angry. Even criminally, they are rightfully angry in my eyes. After decades almost every day, hundreds of feet below their knees to win and bring up coal for the benefit of the Belgian economy and prosperity, and after they were baptized by Prime Minister Achiel Van Acker to the first citizens of the country, they must now find that what they were promised at the time of the closure of the mines regarding their pension is simply not being complied with. So they will not be given what they have been promised and what they are entitled to. So I can understand why they're angry. If they then want to unite, get a story and information from your services and get a correction, they will clash with an administrative wall. They are sent from service A to service B and from service B back to service A or to service C. The services contradict each other or indicate that the minister is in current affairs and that there is not much that can be done about it. So I understand that they're getting angry and feeling kept on a leash. A working group was set up in December 2019 to look into the matter. That working group should normally reach conclusions by the end of February 2020. Minister, what is the status of the working group on its activities? What is the state of play in the Limburg miners' file? What will you do to ensure that the people concerned are given a solution in the shortest possible time and that they are given what they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u19	Minister, the miners will be here on Monday. In front of you is a proud miners' son who will be there as well. They risked their lives for years for their families, not to let them live, but to make them survive. That was obvious. Now, almost 30 years after the closure of the mines, they find that their pensions have not been properly paid. For years they have provided the wealth of our country, in wretched conditions. Now they're getting a scent of gratitude. The miners have fought for a long time to get a decent pension in return. I can still hear my father say: "Poland, Turks, Moroccans, Italians, siamo tutti neri." By the way, that is quite different from what the Flemish Interest is doing here today. How did the Flemish Interest vote on 4 July 1990 on the law giving a better pension to miners? Do you remember? I'll tell you. Mr Annemans and Mr Dewinter voted against! Today, then, standing behind the miners is hypocritical. Minister, the miners have achieved something through their struggle. Let us be clear, for many years they have paid social contributions for a good pension, calculated as 30 years worked. It's in the law I have with me today. Yet you do not enforce that law. Part of their pension is calculated on wages prior to 1955. You heard me right: 1955. Even Europe has launched this scheme. That's why I have a few questions for you. How is it that the law for which the miners have fought so hard is not being implemented? How is it that your services continue to work with an anti-social scheme that was fired by Europe 40 years ago? Will you amend the Royal Decree of 4 December 1990 and bring it into line with the Law of 20 July 1990 and give the miners the pension to which they are entitled?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u20	Mr President, Minister, on 4 December I stood at the Pension Service building with 300 miners. However, it was the feast of Saint Barbara, the feast of the miners. Yet they were angry, because their pension is miscalculated. About nine thousand miners miss their 150 to 200 euro pension every month. This money was promised to them at the mine closure. I immediately questioned you about this in committee. I think it's important that miners get a proper pension for all their hard work. Every day they took risks by dropping underground in the mines. They deserve respect for that and certainly a properly calculated pension. On Monday the miners will return to Brussels. On 4 December it was promised that a working group would look at the calculation of their pension. What is the outcome of this working group? What answer will you give the miners on Monday?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, the Act of 20 July 1990 provides in Article 3 (6) that the amount of the retirement pension of miners who were normally and mainly employed for at least 25 calendar years as miners in the subsurface or quarries with underground extraction will be increased by a supplement. The method of calculating this supplement is defined by the Royal Decree of 4 December 1990. For the purpose of calculating the pension supplement, this Article provides for the use of a flat-rate wage currently at 17,770,57 euros per career year. As indicated in the Social Affairs Committee, the Federal Pension Service considers that this calculation has been carried out correctly for all miners' pensions that have entered into force since 1990. Representatives of the miners were received several times in my cabinet. They do not agree with the position of the FPD and consider that the calculation was not carried out correctly, namely that the law is not correctly implemented by the flat-rate wage included in the Royal Decree of 4 December 1990. The Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service has set up a working group to verify that the calculation has been carried out correctly. This work is currently under way. I await the conclusions of the working party to examine the extent to which the questions of the miners can be answered. I personally wish that we could give them a positive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u22	Minister, your answer gives me a double feeling. It is disappointing because you outline the problem in your answer and simply repeat that there is a working group in progress. For the rest, you did not actually tell us what the situation was. I regret even more that the miners themselves are not involved in the consultation in the working group. That raises questions for them. However, I would like to make a positive contribution to this. I hope that you will take the necessary action to solve these people's problem quickly and efficiently, because there is simply a mistake made in the calculation basis of the supplement. That's all it is. It should be possible to rectify this quickly in principle. The Limburg miners have given me something for you: a coin with a picture of miners. They used to be placed on a pedestal. I may hand that of them to you, Minister, in the hope that you will act quickly and give them what they are entitled to and what they are promised. That's all they ask, that's all the Flemish interest asks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u23	Minister, can it be so difficult for pensions to be properly paid out? For the working class you always have an interpretation of the law, but the law clearly states that 30-30 should be counted: that is 30 years worked. It's as simple as that. It can't be otherwise. There's nothing about wages from a time when they weren't even born, let alone lump sums. The PVDA was formed during the battle around the mines. We did that then, and we will continue to do so. We will also make it clear on Monday that we stand as PVDA until the miners finally get what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u24	We already know what you have said, Minister. It is very strange that you say that the pension is being calculated correctly, but that a working group is still working on whether it is being calculated correctly. In any case, I am pleased to hear you say that a solution must be found for the miners. We are in any case prepared to cooperate in this. The miners will come to Brussels on Monday and expect clear answers. They also deserve a proper pension, out of respect for all these years of hard work, with enormous consequences for their health, and that just to make our economy run. The nine thousand miners who now receive less pension are also entitled to a proper pension, because in the mine everyone is black.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u25	Mr President, Minister, today there is a job day at Finance. That is a good thing in itself, because then there is a chance that a whole part of the many open vacancies can be filled. At the same time, however, there are critical sounds that remind us of something less than a year ago. In the spring of 2019 the newspaper talked about the malaise of the tax administration. Reference was made at that time to working conditions and, in particular, to staff shortages. Seven out of ten officials said that they cannot carry out their duties properly. They gave themselves only 3.4 out of 10. Of course, that cannot be the intention. You will agree with me: there must also be sufficient staff for a well-functioning FPS Finance. Today there will be new critical sounds. This is mainly about the recruitment procedure, which is carried out through Selor and has an average duration of six to nine months. The result is that people who apply elsewhere get opportunities and drop out. As a result, the vacancies for this bottleneck profession are not filled. What is the current status of the staff and the recruitment procedure? In the meantime, have measures been taken to speed up these recruitments via Selor? What will happen to the training at Finance? It was celebrated once, because they received a very thorough education at Finance. Was this reactivated? What are the possible plans there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u26	Mr President, Mr Matheï, the FPS Finance has added a tooth to recruitment. In 2018 there were 759 new recruitments, in 2019 there were 1,522 new recruitments. The number of recruitments to the FPS Finances has almost doubled in one year. We must also remember that almost 21,000 people work at the FPS Finance Office. Thus, more than 1,500 vacancies out of a total of 21,000 people are not so unusual at a time when a whole generation of civil servants comes to retirement age, the baby boomers, and so there is a major changeover. Today, the biggest problem for the FPS Finance is not so much Selor's procedures. By the way, the FOD Finance and the FOD BOSA are accelerating those procedures. Today, the biggest challenge is the shortage of labour. The vacancies at the FPS Finance Office are aimed at people with a high level of training and that is the real difficulty facing them. You asked a question about the level of training. A total of 86,000 classroom training days were organised in 2019, which is more than it has ever been. In addition, there are, of course, many non-classical courses based on e-learning and other procedures. Today we are in a situation of replacing two people for every five people who leave the FPS Finance. That's the federal directive. However, for control functions, such as fiscal controls, it has been obtained that there is a replacement of one-to-one in order to ensure that there could be no weakening in this area. The FPS Finance is therefore fully aware of the need to continue the recruitment efforts. However, they are faced with the labour market conditions that everyone is facing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u27	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. If we want a well-functioning, correct FPS Finance, two things are necessary. Firstly, there must be a good and simple tax system. There is still a lot of work to be done in this area. This work will certainly be on the table in the coming years to reduce tax dumping. Secondly, of course, there is also a need for valid and sufficient staff. The quality is there, but it is clear that, here and there, additional recruitment is certainly necessary in order to apply the tax rules properly and thus to promote fair taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u28	Minister, in this country we have 50 000 agents, including CALog staff. That is a European record, because it means that we have 1 agent per 220 inhabitants. Still, we have a capacity problem. I have questions about that. Officer is a fantastic and well-paid profession. There are 74 types of contributions; the entire career of an agent covers only 37.5 years and agents can retire at 58. Yet there is a recruitment problem. In 2015, changes were already made to the recruitment procedure. Candidates had to pass block 1 without deliberation capabilities and for block 2 with deliberation capabilities. Just three years later, in 2018, Minister Jambon said that the scheme did not work. There was some commotion, because some candidates had slipped through the loopholes, as even hard drug addicts and traffic criminals succeeded in recruiting. A screening was then promised by consultancy firm KPMG. However, I have never seen the result of this. Mr. Secretary, in order to remedy the shortage of agents, you are now issuing a royal decree allowing candidates to be deported. Those who have not passed the exam will have another chance and in the meantime they can become police officers. Minister, what justification do you have for this? Why does it take so long before recruitment policy is finally on track? We are now five years later, but we are still at the same point as in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u29	Mr Dedecker, allow me to begin with the basic training of the police. The deliberation measure shall apply only to candidates who fulfil the conditions for becoming a police officer. This is a first and a second part, the first part of which consists of a number of tests. We note that candidates pass many tests, but, for example, for a certain part of a test, they do not achieve the required figure of 12 out of 20, thus immediately stopping the first part, despite the fact that they have the qualities to be admitted to the second part. You can compare it somewhat with colleges and universities, where students will be admitted to the next year after a deliberation. Moreover, the deliberation assessment is not the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior. I would like to make it quite clear that this measure is not being taken because of a shortage of staff. The shortage of staff therefore did not give rise to this measure, because in fact the persons concerned have already been recruited and meet the conditions for becoming a police officer. It may be a profit of 1%. However, the measure is based on the practice that highly motivated candidates, who can be both physically and psychologically eligible, continue to fail at some point and fail to reach a hurdle. The adjustments should aim to enable candidates who are competent to perform the function properly and correctly to be deported. The aim is to treat the candidates in the same way as in other training forums. It is therefore in no way a disguised facilitation of recruitment as a police officer. I just wanted to talk about the premium schemes. The premium schemes have been reformed, on a proposal from the Commissioner-General, and they have been reduced from a system of premiums of over 50 to a dozen. The work has been done in this area. I would be happy to discuss, review and analyse the KPMG study with you in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. My question is prompted by the concerns of the corps themselves about the training. In block 1 a lot of people succeed: 8 out of 10, even without deliberation possibilities. In block 2, even with deliberation possibilities, a lot of them fall out and candidates will no longer feel like moving on. What kind of agents do we want: street corner workers, welfare huggers or cops? That's where the problem lies. In the second series barely 1.4 out of 10. That's the problem. Minister, I think that you should check the training of the officers and examiners. Are they supposed to be psychologists or cops?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u31	Mr. President, Minister, difficulties in recruiting police officers have been recurring for several years. While the lack of financial resources is regularly mentioned in the press, the shortage of police candidates and candidates for the selection tests is also noted. Your predecessor had, moreover, commissioned an external audit on this subject in 2018. The report concluded that there was a need for simpler recruitment procedures. In addition, the target of 1,600 and then 1,400 annual commitments was set by the federal police. Meanwhile, Ministerial Circular GPI 73 of 14 May 2013 proposes five categories of recruitment. Many corps leaders testify – and increasingly publicly – to the difficulties they face in this context. Problems in terms of mobility, transfers and age pyramids are not new. This lack of police officers is likely to increase the workload on the incumbents: guards are multiplied, night patrols are reduced, missions are abandoned. Minister, are there any changes to the length of the recruitment process that would ensure the level of training and examination? Does circular GPI 73, in your opinion, need to be revised? How many police officers are missing? What is the retirement plan for the next four years? How many police officers have entered service since 2017? Very clearly, were the 1,600 and then 1,400 annual recruitments achieved? Finally, will training services be strengthened without reducing those in the areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, you asked me for very specific data on the number of recruitments. I will give consistent answers to some of your questions. As far as the figures, the flows and the net result of recruitment are concerned, I propose that you ask me a question in committee. I'll be ready to respond as soon as possible. Since I took office in 2018, the reform of recruitment and selection procedures has been a top priority. As you know, I have increased the number of recruitments from 1,200 to 1,600 for the next five years, resulting in a net result of 2,500 additional recruitments. The revision of the current recruitment concept was initiated two years ago. Negotiations with trade union organisations began in the fall of 2017 and were interrupted in 2018. They took over under my guidance. An agreement on the substance was reached in early October 2019, with three of the four unions. The fourth union was granted an additional month to submit supplementary proposals but did not take advantage of the opportunity in time. The new concept therefore provides for faster, but no less qualitative, recruitment for the integrated police. On the contrary, the new battery of modern tests will make it possible to measure the required skills even better and to put the right person in the right place, either within the local police force or within the federal police force. The accountability of the applicant's own destination police service remains essential. Candidates can apply online, indicate when they will pass the tests and how fast they want to travel. A big difference in the new concept of recruitment and selection is that after passing the generic tests, the candidate will already be able to apply to a local or federal police department. After successful completion of the police training, the candidate will begin his activities within this department. This means that the candidate, as well as the various police areas and the federal police services, are responsible for making vacant posts more attractive in the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u33	Minister, thank you. As mayor and president of a multi-communal area, I hear your efforts, but I will ask you to go even further and really look at the issue. Because on the ground, it's a disaster. We can't fill the frameworks. We publish job vacancies. We don't have applicants. There is a real danger in the house. I'm counting on you to take this problem with me. Our police officers can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u34	Madam Minister, in 2002 three important laws were passed, the euthanasia law, the law on palliative care and the law on patient rights. What these three laws have in common is that the patient is central. The patient is entitled to the best care but must be able to decide for himself. However, we read in the newspaper this morning just the opposite, because a number of hospitals require a palliative procedure when patients ask for euthanasia. Some hospitals even put that on their website. I choked on my coffee, too. This goes against both the law on patients' rights and the euthanasia law. According to the law on patients' rights, patients may refuse any treatment, including this so-called palliative filter. It is clear that a euthanasia question within the euthanasia law is seen as a matter between the patient, on the one hand, and the doctor or doctors, on the other. Clearly, it's not a matter for the management of a hospital. Madam Minister, the Bishops' Conference put forward the so-called palliative filter in the drafting of the euthanasia law in 2002. However, this was not taken into account. Apparently, a number of hospitals have escaped. The fact that patients are brought to the attention of the end of life of all possibilities and alternatives is normal and is of good concern. However, there can be no obligation. Madam Secretary, do you agree? What are you going to do to address these hospitals on their offense?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u35	Mr President, Minister, 'I still see him lying there, unable to communicate, just waiting for death'. We were able to read that in the paper this morning. That is Martha's statement, a fictitious name, but no less poignant. Martha mentioned her husband who was suffering from a terminal cancer and who had indicated in advance that he wanted euthanasia. Everything was neatly arranged. The family doctor was also ready to carry out his last will, but apparently that was counted outside the Catholic hospital, which first forced him to undergo a so-called palliative process. Apparently, this isn't the only case. Unbearable suffering is regularly unnecessarily prolonged by certain Catholic hospitals. I find these practices inhuman and unacceptable. People are allowed to die, while their desire is clearly very different. How can powerful Catholic hospitals undermine the right to euthanasia and a worthy end of life? In fact, how can they resist this? Who are the Catholic hospitals to stop that? Who are we, politicians, to undermine that right? Since when do bishops make the laws instead of citizens? The law on patients' rights is very clear. Any patient has the right to refuse treatment, any patient has the right to refuse a palliative trial. Catholic hospitals clearly take a walk with the law there. That is why I had addressed my question to the Minister of Justice, but she was referred to Minister De Block. What measures are being taken to prevent such practices from reoccurring in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Catholic hospitals that offer or, I should say, impose palliative care on patients, when they have made the choice of euthanasia, it is terribly shocking! This is what is now highlighted in the Flemish press. Imposing this palliative filter means delaying the euthanasia process to the maximum and ultimately preventing these people from benefiting from this euthanasia. Imposing this filter means imposing suffering. That hospitals offer palliative care to ensure as long as possible the support and quality of life of the patient and his loved ones, is obviously a very good thing for those who have made this choice. But for those only. Imposing such care to patients who have chosen euthanasia is simply intolerable! Minister, professors from the VUB and the UGent, but also lawyers, experts in the euthanasia law cry out for illegality. No! These hospitals do not have the right to impose palliative care on people who have requested euthanasia. It is simply contrary to the right of each patient. Do you think a hospital can do that? Will you let hospitals continue to use this famous palliative filter with impunity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u37	Madam Minister, ethical issues are once again extremely topical: the extension of the abortion law, the euthanasia process and now the palliative filter. Everyone has an opinion or a conviction about it. Although one conviction is more tolerated than the other in such dossiers. Following the recent euthanasia process, the Doctor's Newspaper of 17 January asked the question as to why there are few trials. That article suggests that this is due to the way in which the evaluation committee takes up its role. Is it sufficiently evaluating? Apparently this dossier is also Community, given that there are more euthanasia applications in Flanders than in Wallonia: 70% to 80% of euthanasia applications are made in Flanders. What's the big difference? I come to another current question. What about the palliative filter? Yeah, what exactly is the problem there? Is this filter in violation of euthanasia law or patient rights, as the colleagues here suggest? Do institutions still have the right to deal with ethical issues according to the philosophy of their institution? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u38	Following the euthanasia process in Ghent, which was a very painful matter for all parties, there is a debate going on about hospitals that apply a so-called palliative filter before euthanasia is possible within their walls, even if the patient has arranged everything for it. There was a painful testimony from a neighbor of someone who has undergone this. It depends on what a palliative filter means. If it is simply a question of informing the patient about the possibility of receiving palliative care at the end of life, there is no problem. Article 3(2) of the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia explicitly provides that the doctor must, in all cases and in advance, inform the patient of his or her state of health and life expectancy, consult with the patient on his or her request for euthanasia and discuss with him or her the treatment possibilities still possible as well as the possibilities offered by palliative care and its consequences. But this obligation of information cannot be diverted in order to slow down the entire euthanasia procedure. Thus, under no circumstances can the procedure be slowed down by hoping that the patient dies before the application is processed. It is therefore unacceptable that the application of euthanasia in a hospital should be linked to the obligation to go through a palliative care course first. If it is true that someone has suffered for two weeks longer despite his explicit and justified demand for euthanasia, then there is no way to justify it. As a doctor, therefore, I am as a substitute ashamed of such inhumane treatment. Yes, Mrs Jiroflée, it is clearly contrary to the law on patient rights. Indeed, Article 8 of the law provides that the patient may refuse the intervention of a particular care provider. The patient can in no way be forced to undergo a certain intervention, if he does not want to. The care provider should also not put any pressure on the patient and the imposition of the palliative filter puts pressure on patients to still opt for prolonged pain until they can die. Anyone who considers that his or her patients' rights are violated in the context of an euthanasia application should actually file a complaint with the ombudsdienst "Requests of the patient'. This will enable Parliament to get to work. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have any say in what you should do, but it is clear that you are master of your work in Parliament. Parliament is the best forum to conduct the debate in a serene manner. It is up to us as representatives of the people to make the laws, especially not the bishops.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. I am particularly pleased that we agree on these points. Colleagues, with a question for euthanasia, there is no lightning. The law has clear locks and doctors don't just answer that question. We are very confident in that. For us, the individual has the right to self-determination. That is at the heart of the various laws of 2002. It is time for all of us in our country to support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I felt that everyone, conservative, progressive, Catholic or liberal, agreed that euthanasia is an acquired right, that we must not be deprived of in any way. Mrs Sneppe, I am therefore appalled that Members dare to question even that right. More importantly, we need to extend euthanasia legislation to include people suffering from dementia, for example. Colleagues, out of conviction and bearing in mind that there is broad support, I would argue that self-determination is a right. My party will therefore work to safeguard that right and even extend it. I hope that we in the hemisphere can get a great deal of support for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u41	Madam Minister, first of all: thank you! Thank you for your comments, which actually put the "church in the middle of the village". But, since prevention is better than cure, I will also address those who, tomorrow again, dare to say that these are fables, that there are no hospitals where euthanasia is prohibited. Open your eyes and dare to recognize it! Yes, some hospitals say no to euthanasia. Some apply a palliative filter to prevent patients from dying as they have decided. For months now, at the PS, we have been saying that such practices must be banned. Each person must be allowed to die according to his or her choice. I don't know what my choice will be tomorrow, but I hope it will be respected, as it is for you. And that is why, with the PS, we will fight for collective clauses to be prohibited in hospital settings. It's time to act. It is time to allow everyone to make their choices. It is clearly time to impose on some hospitals respect for choices, and through them respect for the Human - with a great H.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As far as the palliative filter is concerned, when the patient is clearly informed, we do not see any bones in it. There's no harm in informing yourself about the demand for euthanasia. What's the underlying reason? Is it really a question of euthanasia or are there underlying reasons? Euthanasia is irreversible. Of course, it fits in with the philosophy of unity sausage: everyone here must think the same and have the same conviction. Well, the Flemish interest did not understand it very well at that unitary sausage and therefore believes that the institutions should act in accordance with the spirit of their philosophy. I am not surprised that this dossier has yet another Community dimension. It reaffirms the vision of the Flemish Interest. Everything in this country is Community, even when it comes to life and death. The arrangement of the division of property has thus acquired another dimension and is not only more figurative, but also literally vital now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, if citizens do not feel well or have medical questions, they call emergency line 1733. Today you will end up with people who, unfortunately, are not always medically trained and who have to refer you to the right authority, on the one hand, the general practitioner, on the other hand, the emergency services if it is a more urgent case. This is done by means of a certain protocol, which makes it possible to make errors of assessment in the referral. A study carried out by the University of Antwerp found that no less than 25% of referrals were incorrect. This means that 25% of patients who are due to end up on an emergency service have been referred to the general practitioner. I am very concerned about these figures. In neighbouring countries, such as the United Kingdom, there are reports that there are 20 additional deaths due to poor referral. I therefore hope that we will work on a proper triage. The CD&V is of course in favour of a fast, careful triage. However, I am concerned about the lack of medical training at the consultants. How are the calltakers trained today? Is medical training provided for them? Can they be offered specific training? If we really want to work on a performant triage system, we need to work on integrating the GPs in the emergency wards. What is the state of play?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u44	Madam Secretary, if I call an emergency number on weekends or on a holiday, for example because my son or daughter suddenly got sick or had an accident, I must be able to trust that my child and I will be well helped. The number 1733 has been a relatively good system for years to get in touch with the general practitioner of watch. As far as I am concerned, the system can be extended to other care providers, for example the dentists. An additional function, namely the telephone triage, has been under discussion for several years now. On the basis of a telephone questioning about complaints and needs, can it be properly assessed whether to go to the GP or to the emergency, or whether to wait for the best and go to the GP on a normal working day? Madam Minister, you know that there have been questions about the usefulness, added value and efficiency for years. Mr Farih has already referred to this. Research by the University of Antwerp also contests a number of added value. As far as sp.a is concerned, guarantees of patient safety are needed. The triage must be done properly and correctly. It should be an added value for patient safety, not a minus value. It should also be an efficient system, not an aggravating, unnecessarily delaying additional intermediate structure between the physician and the patient. Hence the following simple question, Madam Minister. How do you guarantee that these conditions of patient safety and efficiency will be respected, even in the future, for a patient calling number 1733?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u45	Madam Minister, the number 1733 should soon be available throughout the country for those who need non-urgent medical attention. It will not only be used to connect people to the general practitioner of watch; the telephone operators will also be able to decide if there is more urgent assistance, if there is an emergency and if an ambulance needs to be sent. The emergency number 1733 has a long history. I have looked it up once: since 2008 there has been the number 1733 for the organisation of the watchkeeping service. Your predecessor, Minister Onkelinx, thought she would have implemented it everywhere by 2014, but that did not work. At a question from colleague Valerie Van Peel in 2014, you mentioned a phased rollout in your reply and you targeted 2016 earlier. Meanwhile it is 2020 and still many zones have not implemented the number yet. It is often accessible, but is often simply used to connect to the old watchkeeping service. Now it turns out that the E.R.s didn't understand it so much on the central waiting number, which should be rolled out everywhere next year. They particularly have reservations about the system of triage by telephone operators. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions, Madam Secretary. In the meantime, how many watchkeeping services are working with a fully developed triage system? How many pilot projects are still under way and when are the results expected? Is there any effect on the use of the emergency service? What training do telephone operators receive and are there sufficient operators available to manage the services by 2021, when the number should be active everywhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u46	Thank you for all your questions about the call number 1733, which has indeed been mentioned a long time. What's it about? This number covers the calls for the watch services for the non-specialised and therefore non-planable care. The aim is to refer citizens with a non-specialised, non-planable care question to the right care provider at the right time. Access to 1733 is organised in a similar way, complementary to and in synergy with the 112 system, including a triage. In other words, they are trained medical dispensers in the 1733 plants which refer the citizens on the basis of a triage according to the nature and severity of the need for care, on the basis of simple and customized protocols to find the most appropriate care. The number 1733 is already operational in four plants: Bruges, Leuven, Arlon and Mons. So there is no problem at Community level. The telephone triage with protocols is already active today during GP watch services covering just over 4 million inhabitants. The operators are available on both 112 and 1733 and receive basic training with continuous training and coaching of the medical management present within these power stations. These managements include emergency doctors and emergency nurses. So you're not going to work with Dr. Google, as someone in the press said. They work with protocols that have been established by an exhaustive procedure. They were indeed prepared by a working group of emergency doctors, general practitioners and experts in telephone triages of our medical managements 112, who do this when it comes to urgent interventions, when one calls with the message that someone has had an infarction or a cerebral haemorrhage. I'm fine, but if it's for a splinter or a brat, it wouldn't work! These protocols were also validated by the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance. They are continuously monitored and monitored by a working group, which records the evolution of medical science. It is therefore wrong to say that emergency doctors are not involved in the preparation and follow-up of the protocols. The most recent protocols were presented to me in June 2019, and also validated. Now comes a new set that will be submitted to the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance in March 2020 after which a new validation will follow in June or July, by me or by my successor. We'll see about that. In any case, the continuous process of quality assurance and biocidal improvement has been demonstrated. The pilot projects have proved their worth for a long time. The test phase is now over and they are included in the roll-out of the system throughout the Belgian territory. The roll-out of the guard posts, another point, is now almost complete. The dentists can also be included. At present, however, there is no uniform federal system of watchkeeping and accessibility for dentists. They must therefore first organise this among themselves. If that technical condition is met, they can be perfectly incorporated into that 1733 system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u47	Madam Minister, I am very pleased to hear that the information in the press was not correct. Everyone gets the right coaching, similar to the emergency number 112. However, if we want to work on a safe and correct, medically based triage, then it is very important that the integration of general practitioners in emergency services takes place as soon as possible. We must make progress in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u48	Madam Secretary, I repeat that the public must have confidence in this telephone medical triage. I therefore recommend that you contact the emergency doctors' and general practitioners' professional groups as soon as possible. They have doubts about the operation of this telephone triage while the people must be able to trust it. Madam Secretary, secondly, please do not throw this in the operator's tray at the emergency power stations. They have testified here in Parliament that they are succumbing to 'a murderous workload'. Those were their own words. So don't just add that to their tray, but make sure that those emergency power stations are sufficiently manned and manned so that they can work properly. Thirdly, promote the integration of GPs in hospitals. A professional triage can then be done on the spot by well-trained, qualified care staff. They can then refer people to the general practitioner or emergency service. This is an efficiency-enhancing measure, first and foremost for the patient, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u49	Madam Minister, it is in itself a good idea to triage to ensure that people with medical problems arrive at the right place as soon as possible, at the emergency service or at the doctor's office, or that an ambulance is sent or that the patient has to wait until the next available consultation with the general practitioner. That triage makes for a minimal waste of resources. However, the basis for this well-functioning system must be the mustache. This system has been under discussion for 12 years and pilot projects have been under way for years. Despite this, confidence in the E.R. is very low. This raises questions about the level of consultation with the sector in question. I therefore call on you to urgently sit with doctors, emergency doctors and emergency services so that the system can be put on track and continues to operate in a responsible way in the interests of every patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u50	Madam Minister, this morning you had an extraordinary meeting with your European colleagues in Health. This was an opportunity for you to better understand the situation regarding the Coronavirus epidemic, renamed VOCID-19 by the World Health Organization (WHO). The latter refers to "a very serious threat to the world" and many sporting, cultural or economic events are cancelled on the planet. We are concerned about the spread of the epidemic in China, which to date has claimed more than 1,350 victims and affects more than 60,000 people. Minister, have you heard from the Belgian patient infected and taken care of at Saint-Pierre Hospital in Brussels? At European level, how do you judge cooperation between Member States since the beginning of the crisis? In terms of mobility, is Belgium in favour of restrictions on flights from China to Europe? Do you think it is necessary to introduce additional entry restrictions or controls at the borders of the Schengen area? How can we prevent the spread of the virus throughout the European Union? Is the exchange of information between European medical bodies sufficient? If not, what should be improved? Finally, what is the latest information on vaccine development? Are Belgian actors at the forefront of such a vaccine against VOCID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u51	Madam Secretary, since December, the corona virus has broken out and an epidemic has broken out. Worldwide, the WHO has declared the emergency. The corona virus is similar to the flu virus. It's just a little more contagious with a little more serious consequences. The problem is that there is no vaccine and no treatment. All we can do is prevent infection and treat the symptoms. The risk of an outbreak, including in Belgium, is real, but fortunately this has not yet happened. Madam Minister, I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, are the current measures sufficient? The travelers from China get a leaflet when they arrive in Belgium at the airport. Is that enough or is it necessary to take additional measures? Are our hospitals prepared for any epidemic? Is there enough bed capacity and emergency capacity? Do we have enough personal protective equipment in our country like masks? For the time being, no National Coordination Crisis Team has been established, because there is no epidemic yet. Is everything prepared for that? This morning you met your European colleagues. Was there any additional measures decided on there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u52	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, there is no reason to give in to panic, even if vigilance remains. These are the words you spoke, Madam Minister, this morning when you arrived at the extraordinary Council of the European Union devoted to the epidemic of coronavirus known as VOCID-19. On Thursday, the Chinese authorities reported even more worrying new figures, bringing the human score to nearly 60,000 confirmed cases and at least 1,355 dead. In Europe, there are currently 40 infected people, one of whom is in Belgium. I recall that, on 30 January, the WHO already declared this epidemic as an international public health emergency. Madam Minister, of course I do not want to stir up the concerns of our fellow citizens about this epidemic. But they do exist. In my view, it is essential to provide them with clear and correct information, on a regular basis, on the situation, on the measures taken to prevent the epidemic from spreading and on the behaviour to be adopted. Minister, can you take a look at the situation today? Can you tell us what is happening to the decisions taken at the extraordinary European Union Council on Thursday and give us information on any additional measures taken by our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u53	Mr President, Minister, we have already discussed the coronavirus in committee, and two weeks ago I also asked a question about it. Panic is not necessary, you have indicated it yourself. That is even counterproductive, but we must be alert and prepared with a sound and clear plan. Where are we now? The figures for the number of infections in China do not seem to decrease immediately. We can assume that there may be fellow countrymen who have come into contact with people who have been infected or who have been in areas where infections occur. There is no active work on tracking these people, but there is a website on which they can report. Meanwhile, it has been confirmed that the virus may have been contracted without symptoms and that it can also be passed on without showing any symptoms. Because of this, it could be that there are people out there who are not aware at all that they are infected. Furthermore, the virulence and mortality of the virus is not entirely clear. What is certain, however, is that the symptoms are severe enough and that the virus is deadly enough to mean a proper attack on our health care system. Another uncomfortable truth is that we are very dependent on China for the production of medicines, where the bulk of the raw materials for medicines is produced, and then mainly in Wuhan. Let the economy just stop there because of the outbreak of the virus. We also depend on China for the production of mouth masks, protective clothing and parts for medical devices. Madam Secretary, how many people have registered through the website? Are we ready for a serious outbreak in our country? In that case, who is in charge? Do we have sufficient strategic stock of pharmaceutical raw materials, medical protective equipment and medical equipment components to arm ourselves against a supply stop from China?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we had a long EPSCO this morning. It was the first time that each country had sent a minister. The situation in Belgium and Europe is under control. There are currently 40 patients with the coronavirus in Europe. In Belgium, just over 110 people have been tested so far, of which only one are still positive. So there is no need to panic, but we are, of course, constantly monitoring the situation. This is also happening in the other Member States. The meeting today around the coronavirus was constructive. The intention was to transmit all the information to each other, to coordinate the actions and to ensure coordination between the European Member States, although Member States retain the right to take further action, depending on their specific situation. At home, the news is as reassuring as ever. The only Belgian tested positive for coronavirus still stays at St. Peter's Hospital in Brussels. I even read it in a weekly: he feels good and is in good condition. This person receives care appropriate to his or her situation and will remain isolated until the contamination is completely eliminated. In other words, he is kept in quarantine until the virus is no longer transmitted to him. The duration of his quarantine will be determined by the absence of the possibility of transmission of the virus. Eight persons repatriated from China on February 2nd and placed in quarantine were tested several times negative for the coronavirus. After a few days we retested them. If it stays that way, they'll be allowed to leave the hospital next Sunday. Since the beginning of February a total of 11 people were brought back to our country and quarantined. As quarantine measures, we have taken the most stringent measures, in accordance with and as a continuation of the Chinese measures in the area where those persons were staying, and following the recommendations of the WHO. The last two people, who were repatriated on Sunday, also tested negative. They shall be quarantined separately from the first eight persons. In Belgium, services are working well and procedures have proved successful in recent weeks. We have also set up a scientific committee that constantly monitors the situation, so that the approach can be adjusted immediately, if necessary. So far, only one patient is involved in our country. The Scientific Committee was chaired by Dr. Steven Van Gucht, a virologist with Sciensano. As far as the potential inaccessibility of medicinal products in the future is concerned, all Members have said today that there are currently no unavailabilitys. As regards the situation in five months or one year, the EEA is setting up a list. The EEA has made a first survey, which proved reassuring. They didn't immediately see unavailability coming at us. As far as medical equipment is concerned, it was agreed today that countries might pass orders on to each other or that the weakest Member States might need support in the area of health care. There have also been agreements on this subject. We have also opened a website, on which citizens can always find the most up-to-date information about coronavirus: info-coronavirus.be. The vaccine is developing. There's a race going on to get the first vaccine in the patients. Everyone agrees that it will probably not be on time for the current epidemic, but it will be on time for a possible next epidemic. The vaccine is not for tomorrow, but work continues. We have received very recent figures on mortality today. This is currently 2% for the coronavirus in China, which is less than the mortality rate for the seasonal flu.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your reassuring news and the report of your meeting this morning at the European Council. The news is also reassuring for the person hospitalized at St. Peter's Hospital. I invite you to remain extremely vigilant about this epidemic with increased prevention and comprehensive information, notably through the website you mentioned and through the setting up of this scientific committee, without however falling into disaster or giving in to panic. Let us also welcome on these occasions the professionalism of our health care actors (physicians, nurses) who are mobilizing. Finally, there is not yet a miracle vaccine, but I plead with you, Madam Minister, for active cooperation in research, between the public and private sectors, in order to quickly find a lasting solution that will put an end to this epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u56	Minister, thank you for your explanation, although some questions have not been answered. We will remain attentive to this issue. What is also evident in such situations where public health is at issue is that there is a need for a comprehensive coordinated approach and also for a minister, because of course there are the preventive and curative aspects that cannot be separated. It is also a message to those who want to further divide skills. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the officials who are mobilizing today to deal with this epidemic, those of Public Health and Sciensano, for example, who have fed much information on the site set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u57	Minister, thank you for taking stock of the situation. It was important. Viruses know no borders, and so far every country in the European Union has adopted its own strategy and policy in dealing with this crisis, whether in the areas of quarantine, passenger control or even passenger advice. It is true that these disparities have only heightened the concerns of the population. Madam Minister, since you said that this meeting was constructive, I invite you to keep in touch to reassure the public at regular intervals because there is nothing more distressing for her than the lack of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u58	Madam Secretary, it may be dangerous to discuss with a doctor the mortality of a particular condition. However, I really thought that, according to the sources I consulted, that degree was 0,1% in a seasonal flu. Then 2 % is clearly higher. We must be prepared for more infections in our country anyway. We must also have a plan in place in case the infection would assume epidemic proportions. Just the fact that an infection can occur when there are no symptoms, makes the corona virus different and that should keep us very alert to that infection. In the United Kingdom, for example, people who had been in contact with an infected person were successfully detected and the necessary measures could be taken. We must also dare to ask whether our health system in terms of medication and medical devices is not too dependent on one country and whether we should not always have a back-up system. In the United States, a very interesting hearing on this subject was held in the Senate recently. The question was raised as to whether the production process should not be re-examined and re-localised. Now it is because of the coronavirus, but it may as well be because of another infection or a political issue that the supply of medical, essential products (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the Brexit has been a reality for almost two weeks now and we are already seeing the first negative effects. The North Seas Energy Cooperation supports and facilitates the development of offshore networks in the North Sea. You will no doubt know that these are very important for achieving our renewable energy objectives. The North Seas Energy Cooperation is a joint venture between eight Member States, the United Kingdom and Norway. According to the European Commission, the Brexit no longer includes the United Kingdom. However, Frans Timmermans, also Member of the European Commission, says that he is still a member of the European Commission. The Netherlands and Luxembourg have also protested. In our view, it is not only not the European Commission's competence to decide that the United Kingdom would no longer be a member, it would also be a capital mistake. After all, we need not less cooperation in and around the North Sea, but more cooperation. This is not only for the renewable energy issue, but also for the promising sector of the blue economy, for example. What is the government's position? Do you agree that this is a partnership, not a body of the European Union, and that the United Kingdom is still part of it? What is your commitment to continuing to involve the United Kingdom in the field of energy and in other areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the United Kingdom's exit from the North Seas Energy Cooperation is a decision at the level of negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom and therefore not a decision at Belgian level, as you know. The fact that the United Kingdom is out is due to the negotiated Withdrawal Agreement. This is an automatic consequence and the choice of the United Kingdom, not the European Union. This does not mean that there is no longer any cooperation. Specifically, next week the administration of the United Kingdom was invited to the technical working group on Windpark IJmuiden in the Netherlands. At operational level, there is therefore further cooperation where necessary and possible. As far as energy vision is concerned, Belgium and the Netherlands work very well together in the Benelux and North Seas Energy Cooperation. This remains unabated. There is also frequent consultation with France. The project of the second Nemocable with the United Kingdom also continues unabated. This is an example of promising bilateral cooperation after the Brexit. There is a difference between the official programme of the NSCOGI, the European Union and bilateral cooperation, for example in connection with cables and interconnections. The United Kingdom can therefore be perfectly connected to the North Sea Grid. Then we must wait for the outcome of the post-BREXIT negotiations conducted by the European Commission on the establishment of new relations with the United Kingdom. We will provide active input to ensure the best of Belgian interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. In fact, you confirm what the European Commission has said, and that is precisely the problem. You assume that the partnership is an EU body, but it is not. I conclude from your reply that Belgium will not follow the Netherlands and Luxembourg in protesting at the removal of the United Kingdom from the grouping. That would be a big mistake. I repeat my appeal to do so anyway. It is very important to continue to work as closely as possible with the United Kingdom, not only in the field of energy but in all possible areas and in all possible partnerships. Once again, I would like to reiterate my call to continue to involve this Parliament as closely as possible in the negotiations currently under way with the United Kingdom on a future deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, for the Socialists, access to energy is a fundamental right. Everyone should have the opportunity to warm up. Gas, fuel oil, electricity are not luxury products. And yet, in this country, one in five households is affected by energy poverty. Behind this statistic are families, men and women who sometimes have to choose between taking care of themselves, feeding themselves, heating up or paying for the children's excursion. We cannot accept that basic necessities such as electricity are undermining the budget of households to the point of depriving them of the essentials. Everyone knows now: it is your government that has decided to raise the VAT from 6 % to 21 % on the price of electricity. I'm sure the best energy is the energy you don't consume. But you will agree, in the 21st century, neither can you do your homework with candles or wash your laundry in the river. Minister, in the previous legislature, you were in favour of a reduction in VAT. And then you were called to order by the other members of the government. You also said that you wanted to study legally the possibility of charging Electrabel for increases in household and company bills. What about today? What are your solutions? Minister, the stakes of energy insecurity are enormous. Belgium is one of the European countries with the highest energy prices. We need to act quickly. Why not by developing an energy check that would lighten households' bills taking into account their particular social conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u63	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, I thank you for your question, which highlights a very important issue, namely the lack of energy and the help to be given to the poorest who, according to various studies, are more than 10% unable to heat and light up properly. They are often single-parent households or single-parent families. A targeted policy, of course, is a policy that specifically helps in the light of the difficulties identified on the ground, which I have just passed along with you. These ad hoc aids are already provided by our legislative framework since we have a social tariff which is a single preferential tariff automatically granted by the suppliers, as soon as the beneficiaries meet the conditions. This tariff is funded by the consumer through the federal contribution. We have the Gas and Electricity Fund that funds CPAS in order to provide material assistance to households in difficulty in paying their bills. It is also the federal contribution paid by all consumers that funds this fund. And we have the Oil Social Fund that allows CPAS to grant an allowance to allow beneficiaries to heat their homes. In fact, these aids also add to the bills of all other consumers. You will agree with me that the bill should not become a second tax sheet. A much broader reflection is therefore needed to reduce this problem of energy insecurity and to tackle the quantities of energy consumed and energy efficiency, as you have pointed out. In addition, a cross-cutting approach is needed across the various levels of power. Indeed, it should not be forgotten that if you help people with the convenience, there is also, in the invoice, the overloads that are charged by energy carriers (high voltage energy for TSOs and low voltage energy for DSOs) which are governed by other regulations. I recall that when we decided at the federal level to develop the offshore, we took this into account by reducing the support provided by all consumers to offshore wind energy from EUR 124 to EUR 79 per megawatt per hour. Therefore, it should not be concluded that, when one acts on a vector that is that of convenience, and when other levels of power do not act or increase the bill, all the benefit of this action at the federal level would be lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u64	Minister, I expected more concrete answers from you. What we are concerned about is household bills. Some Governments have assumed their responsibilities in the past. Mr Di Rupo had lowered the VAT on electricity, as I said. Paul Magnette, as Minister of Energy, had proposed an energy check. Solutions exist. Our Parliament – the minister – has taken on its responsibilities whenever it has been able to do so in order to combat the scourge of energy insecurity. I do not need to remind you of the action that was taken in Parliament in December. It has increased the budget of the Gas and Electricity Fund for almost €6 million to support CPAS in helping households in serious poverty. That's not enough. I repeat, there are solutions. We have to put them into action. The problem is too serious for this government to continue to neglect it. Larger-scale actions must be undertaken. An energy check reduces households' bills directly, with a particular focus on those who need them most. We have to move forward, I beg you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u65	Mr President, Minister, this morning hundreds of ecologists went to over 150 stations across the country to thank public transport users. I'll give you a little chocolate that I kept for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u66	Thank you. I like chocolate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u67	Good! It's local dark chocolate. For those who are nice, I still have some chocolates. This morning, people talked to me a lot and what comes back often is that it is impossible to go to a concert or have a drink on the last train. I take the example of a Liegeian who wanted to go to Angèle's concert last Sunday. It should have taken over the 2301 train, which was completely incompatible with the concert schedule. A second example is that of an Amaytois coming out in Liège. This one should take over the last train at 8:40 p.m. However, for the train to become a real alternative, it is essential that it adequately meets the needs of Belgians in the evening. Minister, does our transport offer correspond to the social and cultural life of Belgians in the evening? Has SNCB already considered the application in this regard? Have you explicitly asked SNCB, which is currently developing its new transport plan, to incorporate the elements of evening transport into the various scenarios?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u68	Mrs Schlitz, SNCB regularly adapts its train offer to best meet demand and to optimize rail traffic. During the major adaptations, which take place every four years, the company organises several months in advance of the road shows to which the various stakeholders are invited: political representatives, associations, user committees, mayors. During these meetings, participants are requested to submit all their requests to SNCB for technical analysis and feasibility assessment. As a result of these analyses, SNCB is developing a new transport plan that attempts to respond to as many of these sometimes antagonistic requests as possible, which must take into account the availability of the network as well as the maintenance and expansion of capacity, which are essential for the safe movement of trains. SNCB is always ready to respond to requests from entertainment and event organizers to make additional trains available where technically possible and provided that the organizers undertake to cover the financial risks of this service in case of under-utilization, as may have happened for some concerts or at the time of Binche Carnival, as long as the successes are random. Since December 2016, rail supply has continued to grow, resulting in an annual increase in the number of passengers by more than 3.5%. For the small story, this represents 1 billion travellers per kilometre per year - that is, an annual carbon decrease of the order of 100 000 tonnes, according to the statistics I received this morning. However, this indicates that the proposed supply is demand-driven. The increase in train supply also affects weekends and evenings. For example, in 2016, 72 trains were added in and around Brussels, 42 of them on Saturday and Sunday. As a result, in the Brussels Region, the number of rail users has increased by 44% over three years, especially in the evenings and on weekends. SNCB plans a further 5% increase in supply on certain lines in its future 2020 plan. The hourly amplitude will be expanded, with even more trains in the evening. I don't know the details, but that's what's announced. This should partially address your concerns, but I remain vigilant that SNCB continues to develop an increasingly attractive offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u69	Thank you for your full response, Minister. This is reassuring in some respects, even if I do not yet have the feeling that the supply that will be developed will fully correspond to the demand of the land. Since this demand does not exist, it must be based on an empirical study. The issue of the last train is also a road safety issue. We talk about it every week in the Mobility Committee. This safety problem on our roads is crucial. It is due to a variety of factors such as driving alcohol or fatigue. An extended evening train offer offers a credible alternative in this regard. It is therefore essential to work on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u71	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 February 2020, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mrs.Leen Dierick and Kathleen Verhelst, Mr. Dieter Vanbesien and Ms.Katrien Houtmeyers, Kathleen Depoorter and Florence Reuters) amending the law of 17 March 2019 on the professions of accountant and tax adviser with regard to the Institute of Tax Advisers and Accountants, Nos. 965/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 February 2020, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the legislative proposal (Mrs Leen Dierick and Kathleen Verhelst, Mr Dieter Vanbesien and Mrs Katrien Houtmeyers, Kathleen Depoorter and Florence Reuters) amending the law of 17 March 2019 on the professions of accountant and tax advisor as regards the Institute of Tax Advisors and Accountants, Nos 965/1 to 4. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 February 2020, I also propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the report (Mr Sander Loones) of the Prosecution Committee on the prosecution of a member of the House of Representatives, No 1008/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 February 2020, on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, I would like to present the report (Mr Sander Loones) of the Commission for the Prosecutions on persecutions charged by a member of the Chamber of Representatives, No. 1008/1, to be registered. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u72	On 13 December 2019, I sought the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments I had received on the bill (Ms Barbara Creemers, Séverine de Laveleye and Laurence H annoine) to amend the legislation on euthanasia, No. 523/11. On 13 December 2019, I asked the Council of State for an opinion on the amendments I had received to the bill (Mrs Barbara Creemers, Mrs Séverine de Laveleye and Mr Laurence Hennuy) amending the legislation on euthanasia, No. 523/11. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 February 2020, I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities where they will be discussed during the week of 17 February 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 12 February 2020, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities to discuss these amendments during the week of 17 February 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Piedboeuf is the rapporteur. He refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law contains drinking and eating, and includes extending the period during which the United Kingdom is treated as a Member State of the European Economic Area for the application of tax niches such as the exemption of capital gains on shares or the tonnage tax. I turn to this last particular measure. This is a tax provision introduced by the program law of 2 August 2002, at the time of the rainbow government (liberals, socialists and ecologists). Strangely, this tax measure has not been incorporated into the Income Tax Code, as if it was not meant to be too obvious. What is the content of this tonnage tax? I'm going to make a detour first in time and space. Let's go to Strasbourg in 2015, on 8 July, to the European Parliament. In a speech widely publicized by all television stations, MEP Guy Verhofstadt literally shouts at the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, who was summoned to the European Parliament to be put on the grill about the situation in Greece that had dared to challenge the European austerity dictates. Mr. Verhofstadt yells at Mr. Tsipras as a angry director would at an employee who is slow to carry out his orders. I quote Guy Verhofstadt: "I have to tell you that I am angry because you are talking about reforms but we never see any concrete proposals." Then he goes straight to the threats: "If you want to avoid Grexit, you have to come within 48 hours with a credible list of reforms." He goes on with specific orders: "Here are the five things you must do." The first of these five things that Mr Verhofstadt is saying is: "To put an end, in your country, to the privileges of shipowners". Here we go. The privileges of the shipowners. He is right: we must denounce the privileges of shipowners; in Greece, or elsewhere. At the time of his threats, Verhofstadt was a member of the board of directors of a shipowner: the company Exmar, the company of Nicolas Saverys, one of the great fortunes of this country. He who criticizes the privileges of shipowners in Greece is himself paid by a shipowner in Belgium. In that year, it received 60,000 euros for half a dozen meetings, or 10,000 euros per meeting. It's not bad. It is not Nicolas Saverys who pays him: it is Saint Nicolas Saverys. The point is that the Saverys are themselves linked to one of the main Greek shipowners, Peter Livanos. He even presided over one of the Saverys companies in Belgium. According to Eurostat, Greece should therefore put an end to the privileges of shipowners. But what about the privileges of shipowners in Belgium, Minister? There is a special tax privilege for shipowners. This is the famous tonnage tax. Under which government was it adopted? I said this: in 2002, under the rainbow government, that is to say under the Verhofstadt government. In short, with regard to privileges and conflicts of interest, I believe that the Belgian political world is ill placed to teach other countries the lesson. Normally, a company is taxed on its profit. But with the tonnage tax, companies active in maritime transport are taxed not on their profits, but on a certain mass of cargo, according to a particularly advantageous calculation rule. One of the recipients of this tonnage tax, in 2018, was in the top 50 that the PTB makes every year on companies that benefit from the largest tax gifts in our country. The company made a profit of 351 million euros. How many taxes did it pay on 351 million euros through the tonnage tax? She paid 3,580 euros in taxes, less than what a worker with a low salary pays as taxes over a year! It's a tax rate of 0.001%! That is what this famous tonnage tax means! Minister, as we are talking about Brexit, you will understand that this is not our cup of tea!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u75	This draft law ensures that sufficient stability can be guaranteed permanently after the Brexit, which is most likely to occur, but whose transition period may last longer than expected. This draft law ensures that no one finds themselves in an unstable situation. Mr Van Hees has emphasized one particular way of taxing, which also ensures that companies pay taxes, even if they make losses. Normally, you pay taxes if you make a profit. A tonnage tax also causes companies that make losses to pay taxes. Let me give you the example of people saving pensions on a product in the UK. This law will not put savers in a legal vacuum. Providing stability in unstable times like this with the Brexit is more a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u76	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u77	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (948/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (948/3) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u79	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Kathleen Verhelst, Robby De Caluwé, Marianne Verhaert, Vincent Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u80	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal to amend the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance against the abolition of the death penalty was adopted at a second reading at the committee meeting on 29 January, after the articles were adopted at first reading on 8 January. At the committee on 29 January, the meeting took note of the legal service's legislative note on the text adopted at first reading. As a result, Kathleen Verhelst tabled an amendment as the main proposer which responded to the comments made. The amendment was adopted with 12 votes in favour and 2 abstentions from the Flemish Interest. The entire bill was also adopted at second reading with 12 votes in favour and 2 abstentions from the Flemish Interest. For further details, I refer to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u82	You may continue with your statement in the general discussion, Mr Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u83	We ask ourselves about the need for this bill to amend the insurance law so that the insured person's death is covered if he is sentenced to death. When I subsequently asked Minister Nathalie Muylle a written question on the number of cases of people sentenced to death abroad, she had to remain guilty. So this bill came without any specific cause or problem. The ethical themes are very popular with Open Vld. They seem to find very little to distinguish themselves in this House. Let me give you some examples. Abortion: preferably until the day of delivery. Euthanasia: if it's possible for every sixty-year-old. Insurance money: if we can use this to please the relatives of Syrian terrorists, who get their deserved punishment, please. Let us be honest, the death penalty has been abolished in Europe. We find it strange that relatives of Belgian criminals, such as terrorists who get the death penalty in Iraq or Syria for their actions, can benefit from the payment of an insurance premium. Anyone who travels with 25 kg of drugs in his suitcase, is caught and is therefore sentenced to death, will also be able to enjoy a payout. The worst part is that our inhabitants who are suffering from psychological problems no longer see a way out and rob themselves of their lives are often unable to rely on the payment of an insurance premium. However, I do not hear anyone in this hemisphere. We therefore believe that this is a purely symbolic dossier, without any reason or necessity. Are there no other priorities in this House? As in the committee, Vlaams Belang will abstain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill seeks to adapt the insurance law to the abolition of the death penalty. The death penalty was abolished in the European Convention on Human Rights and our Constitution. In the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance, however, there is still an article that talks about the death penalty. This article even states that the insurer does not cover the death of the insured person if death is the result of the enforcement of a judicial conviction to the death penalty. It is necessary that this be abolished. This is not a priority, but it is important that it be corrected. The legislative proposal concerns a purely technical and legal procedure. This provision needs to be adapted not only because the death penalty no longer exists, but also because it is not right for an insurer to benefit from the effective implementation of a death penalty, even if it would take place in another country. That's unethical. No one should be able to benefit economically from a death penalty in another business model. I believe, however, that Flemish interest is throwing too much into everything. No objections were raised in the committee while Flemish Interest is now having a chat that I am not behind. I am convinced that the world of insurance should not benefit from this. If a parent gets the death penalty, the children should not pay financially for it. I do not think that insurance should intervene legally in order to assess it. Justice must be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u85	Mr President, I would like to repeat briefly what Mrs Verhelst said. Mrs Verhelst may take this off as a chat by Flemish Interest, but we need to look at the purpose of this whole thing. She may say that this is a purely legal and technical matter, but after replying to my written question to Mrs Muylle, I do not see the need for this at all. I think this is merely a symbolic dossier. It is said that the family does not need to be punished for the actions of a father, but we must be honest: who can benefit from the payment of an insurance premium in the event of a death sentence? It is these people who are at stake, because the death penalty has been effectively abolished in Europe. So I really don't understand the need for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u86	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u87	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (560/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (560/6) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u89	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Leen Dierick, Kathleen Verhelst, Dieter Vanbesien, Katrien Houtmeyers, Kathleen Depoorter, Florence Reuter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Melissa Depraetere, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u91	Mr President, as you know, we supported the merger law of the IAB and the BIBF in the previous legislature. We are still fond of the merger between the two institutions. However, as the decisions for the new Institute of Tax Advisors and the Accountants have been delayed, the merger is delayed. We understand that the relevant ministers are working hard on these decisions and hope that they will appear in the Belgian Official Journal within a few months. Everyone knows that a change, such as a merger, is always accompanied by uncertainty and uncertainty. People need security. In order not to make the practical aspects of the integration of both institutes depend on the publication of the royal decrees for the IBA, it is useful that the new institute should already have legal personality to acquire, for example, goods and conclude contracts. For this purpose, the Institute needs a budget, on which the General Assembly of the IBA decides. However, we would point out that this legislative proposal does not affect the regulatory nature of the BIBF and the IAB, so that their budgetary autonomy is maintained until the merger is complete. The draft law does not provide for any derogation in this respect from the Law of 22 April 1999 for the IAB, nor from the Royal Decree of 28 November 2018 for the BIBF. I know that this bill had to be adopted quickly in order to organise the General Assembly of the IBA. As a result, there is no opinion from the Council of State and we adopt the text as it is. In the event of a voluntary merger, of course, we hope that the accountants and the accountants will find each other and that they will agree, including in the budgetary field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u92	Mr President, I will be very brief. We in the committee have had a very good cooperation across party boundaries. The bill was passed unanimously. I would therefore like to thank everyone for their constructive attitude and, of course, I hope that it will be adopted unanimously by the plenary in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u93	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u94	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (965/1+4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (965/1+4) The Commission notes that the Commission's decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty') does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The inscription in Dutch was changed by the Committee in ' Draft law amending the Act of 17 March 2019 on the professions of accountants and tax advisor as regards the Institute of Tax Advisors and the Accountants." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u96	The next item is the debate on Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker's application for leave to prosecute. The next item is the debate on the request for prosecution by Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker. May I remind you that only the rapporteur, the member concerned or a representative, a speaker in favour and a speaker against may speak (art. 160, paragraph 3, Rgt). I would remind you that only the rapporteur, the Member concerned or a Member representing him, and one speaker in favour and one speaker against, may speak. 160, third member, Rgt).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report has been distributed. I will bring out the most important elements. In his letter of 29 October 2019, the Attorney General asked the Court of Appeal in Ghent to waive the parliamentary immunity of our colleague, Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker, pursuant to Article 59 of the Constitution. The investigation was initiated by Liliane Dewulf's bourgeois election for the following reasons. First of all, slander by disclosure of writings, prints or slogans to public officials in connection with facts relating to their ministry. Secondly, the publication of printed matter whose origin is known as a result of an earlier edition of which the printed matter is part. Thirdly, beling to the detriment of Liliane Dewulf, with the data as stated in the report. The facts underlying the request were described in detail in the report, on page 4, to which I refer. At its meetings on 15 and 22 January 2020, your committee examined the request of the Attorney General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent. The Attorney General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent, Mr Dernicourt, was heard on 15 January 2020. Mr Dernicourt first outlined the context of Mrs Dewulf's civil-party complaint. Mr Dernicourt then explained the various investigations carried out by the investigating judge, interrogations and searches, in the file. He then set out the main lines of the prosecution's claim. In the present case, the District Court of West Flanders, Bruges Division, is seeking the extradiction for the three indictments for the following reasons. For the first charge, defamation and arraignment: offense because the criminal proceedings are time-barred. For the second charge, the publication or distribution of writings without mentioning the name and address of the author or the printer: offense, because it is clear who the author and the publisher responsible for the election page is. For the third charge, belaging: non-prosecution, because the pamphlet must be framed in the election struggle and municipal politics. It thus has a very specific perspective. There is no evidence of a repeated appearance by Mr Dedecker. The presentation of the Attorney General was followed by an exchange of views. At the initiative of some members, the following elements were discussed: the manner in which the judicial investigation was conducted, the political context of the facts accused of being Mr Dedecker, the components that would constitute the printing crime and the components that would constitute the charge of criminal conduct. Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker was also heard at the same meeting at his own request. Mr Dedecker did not deliver any notes, but asked that the Pano reportage on Canvas on 14 November 2017 be presented in committee. The committee has answered that question. When he was heard, Mr Dedecker opposed the waiver of his parliamentary immunity, particularly for the reasons set out in detail in the report. At its meeting on 22 January 2020, the Committee issued its opinion for the plenary session. The purpose of the decision of the Chamber is not to rule on the guilt or innocence of the representative of the people who is requested to waive parliamentary immunity. The Committee recalls that, according to the text of Article 59 of the Constitution, the Chamber is neither a court of judgment nor an investigative court. It is therefore not for the Court to ascertain whether the elements of the offences in question are present. With regard to the application of the principles to the dossier under discussion, the Committee first of all points out that political motives are not absolute and therefore would not protect any crime, regardless of its seriousness, from persecution. The Committee should therefore not be urged to oppose the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity simply because the facts complained of must be considered in a political or electoral context. Furthermore, the Committee considers that it should not only subject the facts notified to it to a marginal review, but should also initiate a marginal inquiry into the circumstances in which the judicial investigation was conducted. More generally, the committee has to take a marginal look at whether the public prosecutor's request is sufficiently substantiated. Following examination of this dossier, the Committee notes that the facts relating to the charge against A are well-defined. In addition, the Committee considers that the file has not been sufficiently substantiated and that several investigations could have been speeded up in order to investigate the allegations made in the complaint made by Mrs Dewulf. For example, the Committee considers that the investigating judge could easily have checked the allegations relating to the political advantage of Mrs Dewulf's family during her public mandate in delivering building permits and in changing the spatial implementation plan. The file shows that Mrs Dewulf had requested this, but that this was not done. The Committee shall take the same decision as regards the printing crime, charge B, and the bellaging, charge C. The committee therefore notes that the judicial investigation was incomplete and that, in the interests of the parliamentary institution, parliamentary immunity should not be lifted for this reason. The Committee's decision therefore reads as follows: "Having regard to the request made by the Attorney General to the Court of Appeal in Ghent; having regard to Article 59, paragraph 1, of the Constitution; having regard to the general principles referred to above; whereas the parliamentary immunity of Members of Parliament is intended to safeguard the interests and proper functioning of the parliamentary institution, in this case the Chamber of Representatives, and not the interests of each individual Member of Parliament; proposes unanimously that the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker be rejected. This report was adopted unanimously on 29 January 2020. So much for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u98	As an expert in the exercise of parliamentary immunity, I would like to thank the committee for its research. I hope everyone votes in honor and conscience. I don't care, and it's up to you to break up with me. I insisted on that immunity, which, in principle, was useless. As Mr Van Hecke has read out, the prosecutor is asking for my dismissal. However, I would like to say this because we are representatives of the people and sometimes also whistleblowers. We have a right to investigate a case and talk about it. It is precisely for this purpose that there is parliamentary immunity, so that the representative of the people can carry out his duties as he should and not get a complaint or subpoena for exercising a parliamentary and social mandate by prosecuting crimes and the like. I could have said that my parliamentary immunity could have been waived, because the prosecutor asked for my waiver. However, we, representatives of the people, must think about what it means to be parliamentary inviolable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u99	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. The committee unanimously proposes that the request for the waiver of Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker's parliamentary immunity should not be accepted. The committee unanimously proposes that Mr Jean-Marie Dedecker's request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity be rejected. Can everyone agree with the committee's proposal? Can everyone agree to the committee's proposal? No observation? Are you sure you don't mind? Accordingly, the House adopts the proposal (s. 61, No. 4, Rgt). Consequently, the Court adopted the proposal (Art. 61, No. 4, Rgt).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u100	The next item is the debate on Mr Georges Dallemagne's application for leave to prosecute. The next item is the debate on the request for prosecution by Mr Georges Dallemagne. May I remind you that only the rapporteur, the member concerned or a representative, a speaker in favour and a speaker against may speak (art. 160, paragraph 3, Rgt). I would remind you that only the rapporteur, the Member concerned or a Member representing him, and one speaker in favour and one speaker against, may speak. 160, third member, Rgt).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u101	Mr President, if there are any questions, I would like to clarify the matter. It concerns a traffic offence committed by Mr Dallemagne in July 2018, for which a number of reminders were provided by the Justice Department for the payment of the fine to our colleague. Meanwhile, the fine was also paid. This was discussed at the meeting in the Commission for Persecutions. At the same time, the discussion took account of the fact that four reminders were sent to the colleague concerned in order to make payment. The payment was made only after the file was sent to Parliament. In view of the statement made by the police and the many memories that were needed, the Committee has decided to ask for immunity to be lifted so that the judiciary can continue its proceedings in the file. The question was asked explicitly to our colleague whether he opposed it. It is to our colleague's credit that he would accept the decision if it were taken and approved, according to his statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u102	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. The committee unanimously proposes to grant constitutional leave to refer Georges Dallemagne, a member of the House of Representatives, to the French-speaking police court in Brussels. The Committee unanimously proposes that constitutional leave be granted to Mr Georges Dallemagne, a member of the Chamber of Representatives, to serve before the French-speaking police court in Brussels. Can everyone agree with the committee's proposal? Can everyone agree to the committee's proposal? No observation? Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Accordingly, the House adopts the proposal (s. 61, No. 4, Rgt). Consequently, the Court adopted the proposal (Art. 61, No. 4, Rgt).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u103	The Ecolo-Groen Group has sent me the candidacy of Mrs Zakia Khattabi as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, replacing Mr Simon Moutquin. The Ecolo-Green Group has given me the candidacy of Mrs Zakia Khattabi as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, in place of Mr Simon Moutquin. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mrs Zakia Khattabi elected as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. Since there are no other candidates, Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure requires no vote and I declare Mrs Zakia Khattabi elected as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u104	The government called for urgent action in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill implementing the measures for savings in respect of proprietary medicinal products was introduced in the framework of the Health Care 2020 budget, No. 1005/1. The Government requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law implementing the savings measures for proprietary medicinal products under the 2020 health care budget, No. 1005/1. The Conference agreed that this was a draft that could be dealt with under the heading of current affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is asking for Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure to be applied when the draft law is being examined. The question of urgency shall be justified as follows: It concerns measures entered in the budget for the Department of Health. The draft law regulates a number of savings measures, but also measures in favour of patients, such as the abolition of the supplement in the reimbursement model of the ceiling prices, which also has an impact on the determination of the status of the cheapest medicines. That system provides information to companies one month in advance to make the price adjustment and prevents proprietary medicinal products from being removed from the reimbursement system. In addition, it is also about deepening price reductions for biological medicines and also for older medicines, the so-called old drugs cliff. The draft also includes adjustments to the Royal Decree of 1 February laying down procedures, time limits and conditions for the reimbursement of compulsory medical care insurance and benefits in respect of the costs of proprietary medicinal products. Those elements require that this law be dealt with and adopted as soon as possible, so that the application of the law is possible by 1 April 2020. With regard to the deposit in day-to-day business, the health care budget approved at the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2019 sets the health care budget and its funding for 2020. This decision implies the adoption of cost-saving measures within the framework of the partial objectives of proprietary medicinal products. The project includes various necessary measures in the health care sector and in the pharmaceutical sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u106	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u107	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u108	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 67 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 61 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (948/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (948/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u109	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u110	Yes 112 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (560/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (560/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (965/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (965/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-13-55-plenair-ip024x.u112	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 20 February 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 20, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
