ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u2	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Hugues Bayet, Christophe Lacroix, André Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u3	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (567/10) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (567/10) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Our rapporteur is Mr Vicar who refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by thanking General Compernol, who will leave tomorrow for a well-deserved retirement. I would also like to congratulate his successor, Vice-Admiral Michef Hofman, with whom, I hope, our Assembly can continue to work in good intelligence. Indeed, there is work, and there will still be work within the Defence. In his last interview, General Compernol welcomed the fact that, under the previous legislature, major credit investments had been decided and said that it was now necessary to work on what he defined as the second priority of the Defence, namely "the recapitalization of its personnel". For the Socialist Group, this is not the second priority, but the first. It's the nerve of war. And we believe that the previous government has done things backwards to prepare for the future of Belgian Defence. Indeed, it is clear that without the personnel, without the women and men who make it up, the defence equipment as rutillating as it is no longer makes any sense. Without this necessary personnel, the military programming law is only a catalogue of vain wishes. For us, therefore, the staff is really the priority. While 41 per cent of workers will retire by 2025, it is a matter of launching a real human resource offensive without making a bad puncture. This situation will force the army, even in the process of being reduced, to recruit nearly 12,000 people by 2024, while the labour market is increasingly competitive, while the status of military has been challenged many times during the previous legislature. I am thinking in particular of the question of the retirement age which should be raised, which has not been done since the beginning of the 2000s, while the Belgian military has shown its usefulness and professionalism year after year. Now, all the visionaries are in red, whether they are recruitment, attrition or retirement. The human resources record left behind by the previous government is catastrophic. I am not saying that, but the hearings we conducted in committee on the basis of this text. This text had the merit of putting the issue of defence civilian and military personnel at the top of the agenda. For even if this is my first mandate, it must be noted that in this House we are talking much more often about military equipment than about human resources. And yet, we've seen the military put on all the sauces in recent years. The trend must therefore be reversed by proactive and progressive measures. That is the objective of this text, which has received broad and constructive support from my colleagues, with whom we have really been able to carry out an important task of amendment. I thank them for that. This text defines a series of concrete measures that will, I hope, be implemented without delay by the minister, in collaboration with the staff and the unions, while the negotiations are under way. This text therefore arrives at the best time. This adopted text will give the minister a clear mandate from our assembly. Indeed, we can only see, year after year, that the rate of attrition within the Defence remains high, while at the same time, the number of young people taking the step to engage in the army is low. These two phenomena significantly impede the evolution of our Defence towards a modern, young and dynamic army. In the long run, this could greatly compromise the strategic vision, the legitimate defence missions, but also the international operationality of our country. The greatest challenge will not be to achieve the goals of downsizing in this strategic vision, but to ensure that the military function, at all ranks, is sufficiently attractive in the future, so as not to fall short of this already very low human resources target. The aim of the text was therefore to define a strategic vision of human resources with several axes. One of the main thrusts, but of course not the only one, is to introduce new social incentives as well as to provide for an alignment of Defence salaries with those of the rest of the federal public service. That's normal, you'll tell me. But over the years, the wage gap has become huge and unjustified. Choosing Defence must of course continue to be a vocation, but it is up to us, as parliamentarians, to ensure that women and men who engage under our tricolor flag receive a fair salary, like other federal public offices. Account must also be taken of the special nature of the tenability of the military profession throughout their careers. Their social achievements cannot be constantly called into question. The aim is therefore to strengthen social dialogue by fully involving military trade unions. This is essential if we are to address the issue of aging in Defence and the retirements of many military personnel. A non-viable age pyramid in the medium and long term poses the risk that Defence will no longer have the military to carry out its regal missions and that it will one day be privatized. Such a possibility is obviously not possible for me and my group in a rule of law. The previous government had thus decided to remedy this shortage of staff by resorting to massive outsourcing, whether for guarding, building maintenance, etc., which also has and will have a significant cost and which is not a long-term solution, particularly for sensitive missions. I am thinking, among other things, of the medical and logistical support of our troops. The facts seem, in any case, to confirm my group's opposition to outsourcing. Moreover, I would like to point out that no evaluation has been carried out which could prove its effectiveness. Another aspect, given the diversity of functions found here, is that Defence must be a major player in training and personal development – as it has always been – for young people interested in a career within it. To do this, it also needs to work with regional employment agencies – whose colleagues will recognise that the hearing has made it possible to considerably strengthen the text. Indeed, Defence can be a social elevator and, above all, must remain so. Another essential aspect of this text is diversity. Defence must be rooted in our society and our living together. That is why the motion for a resolution calls for the encouragement and promotion of diversity within the army and for the priority to be given to combating all forms of discrimination, such as gender, origin and sexual orientation, through the establishment of a diversity plan and the launching of concrete actions. In conclusion, a comprehensive reflection must be carried out in different areas. I am thinking in particular of the question of the BDL status (Beperkte Duur/Limited duration) and access to the career framework, but also of the shortage of jobs and, in particular, of the technical profiles which are highly sought after. Similarly, the family life of the military must be facilitated and better balanced with their work. In addition, social and medical monitoring must also be improved. Of course, account must be taken of the employment areas of our country and, in particular, of the areas without a strong Defence presence, as is the case in Brussels or in Hainaut, the province from which I come. Indeed, a balanced geographical distribution of the different units seems central to us. A fundamental reflection must also be drawn up on military quarters, through their installation in areas without them. The text also calls for their sustainable modernisation. Having participated in a visit of some of them, we are all convinced of their state at the limit of unsanitaryness. Such an enterprise requires an investment plan, integrating geographic realities, so that this improvement will provide optimal living and working conditions for Defence civilian and military personnel. Finally, I hope that this text will, as in committee, be able to obtain your approval and demonstrate strong and lasting political support for a new vision of the proactive and modern human resources within Defence. In my view, the men and women who make up it certainly deserve no less. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u5	Mr President, I would like to thank the colleagues in the PS for putting this motion for a resolution on the table, which aims to highlight a series of things that should lead the members of the Defence Committee with regard to the future of our defence, its construction, its evolution, the evolution of careers and the Earth component. There are many new challenges that await us, as many international issues are at stake. This has already been initiated with regard to career reform, particularly with regard to flexibility. It is no longer always possible to spend his entire career in the army and it must be possible to have some flexibility and to be able to value the achievements of education and then to consider a second career in the state or in the private sector. This is what the reform under the previous legislature was about, which needs to be further refined and better understood. Defence still needs new recruits and people who will continue to engage because the staff is rather aging. It will also be important to focus on communication tools to show the full attractiveness of Defence. For this to happen, the envisaged career must be attractive. There is, of course, also a need for financial attractiveness. We also need to know the issues that Defence will be facing in the next decade or two. It is within this framework that this resolution forms part of. Another point was demonstrated during the hearings we had in the Defence Committee. We heard from the unions who told us about their specific needs and expectations. It was important to meet them. Their future in the army had to be clarified. They also show some form of psychosocial assistance, as has been pointed out, which should be much better provided. It is also important to see how recruitment can be organized in a much more attractive way. It is with joy that we will support this resolution in the vote this evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u6	Mr President, the PTB Group will support this resolution, which is being put to the vote today. Indeed, it responds to the demands of the military and trade union organizations. There's a real problem. Recruitment is really necessary. As my colleague said, more and more staff are old and need to be replaced by young people. But the job is not so attractive, neither in terms of working conditions nor in terms of wage conditions. We also have a diversity problem. The army must represent the entire population. This diversity is relatively small at present. A very important point for us is the question of the balance between private and professional life, especially for women. It is known that it is still women who bear the greatest burden of household tasks. However, we want to encourage women to engage in defence. I still note the problem of contracts that are not stable and therefore do not provide a certain degree of security, not to mention the current policy that we do not share, which is to increasingly outsource certain parts of Defence's work to private actors. We believe that this resolution, to the extent that it will materialize - and we will see to it - will address this issue. We are also very pleased that the amendment we tabled was also shared by the whole committee. This amendment has nothing to do with the fact that it proposes an increase in gross wages in the context of social consultation. Two aspects of our amendment are therefore important. On the one hand, social consultation because it is important to respect it and, on the other hand, the wage increase which must be achieved through gross wages. This not only increases the salaries of the military today, but will also help to improve the level of their pensions. We know that a lot of pensioners are obliged to work longer because the amount of their pension does not allow them to have a decent life. For us, this is a very important element and we are pleased that it has been supported by the whole committee. There is, however, a small flat. Unfortunately, at the very end of the debate, an amendment was proposed by the MR, who, in our view, mixed the genres with regard to the main purpose of the resolution. Indeed, this goal was to improve the situation in order to be able to hire staff, i.e. everything related to social issues. The MR has involved an amendment that says "continue to respect our international commitments to NATO and the European Union". For us, this debate is very important. It is not a scoop, the PTB does not support NATO's aggressive actions towards certain countries. It is thought that the ideal would have been to separate these two very different debates. That is why we have tabled an amendment today to cancel this MR amendment. On the whole, we are quite pleased that this resolution is being debated today and we will ensure that it is implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, mainly in the previous legislature, there has been a focus on capacity and new investments for defence. For us, however, it is also very important that the defence personnel should be included in that story. In this sense, I would like to thank specifically the people of the PS who took the initiative for this resolution because it puts the personnel policy for Defence at the top of the agenda. In the coming years, we will have to work on the attractiveness of Defense as an employer anyway, so that boys and girls become interested in coming to Defense. Above all, it is important that we can keep them there because people have to want to keep working in the Defense Department. In this sense, the text before us today contains many positive elements. Over the past few weeks and months, there has been a lot of work on this text, with hearings and a substantive discussion. I am satisfied with the evolution of the text because we started with a document that had a lot of sharp edges, with some unnecessary sneaks at the policy in the previous administration period. Now there is a better balanced text for the vote. For example, there was talk of abolishing outsourcing and similar stories. That was taken out of here now, and that's a good thing for us. For this reason, we abstained in committee, but we intend to adopt this text today. I'll tell you why. On the one hand, it is important for us to have a Chamber-wide support to make it clear to the negotiators, whoever they may be, that the Defence Chamber is high on the agenda. On the other hand, and more importantly for us, we need to send a signal to everyone in the defense that politics is serious about it with Defence. That is why our group will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly not going to tell you anything new when I tell you that there is a personnel problem in the army. Last year, figures leaked to the Defense Department, for the time that something leaks there, about half of our military personnel will retire in the coming years. That turned out to be a very good alarm clock, because suddenly almost the entire politics was awake. How the hell are we gonna get nearly 14,000 recruits to join the army by the end of 2024? How will we make the job of professional military another attractive job to recruit that number of people? The proposal before us is, after years of devastatingly saving the defence industry, only fair, in the past legislature, possibly with the exception of the previous legislature, a good way to tackle the human resources problem at last. It is only regrettable that the proposal, in its original form, has continued to go a long way down the road. For example, as Mr Buysrogge said, outsourcing was kept to a minimum in the resolution, whereas there is actually no valid reason why non-military tasks should not be carried out by non-military personnel. A good example of this is an amendment tabled by the Flemish Interest, but which it did not achieve, on the status of patrol ships. We could perfectly give the patrol ships the status of naval aid ship and the military on board these ships could then deal with military tasks, because a cook on a Navy ship does not necessarily have to be a military one, I think. Let me give another good example of an innovative idea. Why can we not reward military, for example in the technical professions that are difficult to bind to Defence, on the basis of their capabilities and knowledge, on the basis of what they contribute to their service or unity, not entirely, but perhaps partly? Why can't we do that? It would be an opportunity to tie people to the Defense Department. At the beginning of the career, after all, we start on an equal footing with Defence and in the private sector, but after a number of years, there is a considerable difference between what people earn in the military and what people earn in the private sector. It was just an example of how we can make Defense more attractive. Mr President, I promised to be extremely brief, so I will conclude. The Flemish interest is critical of certain requests in this resolution, especially when they contradict certain requests made by the military themselves. I am thinking only of the status of naval rescue ships. Despite these arguments, we believe that the resolution is a very good way to tackle the army's human resource problem, and that is why the Flemish interest will support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u9	I see that Mr Francken has arrived in the meantime, so he will have the floor at the end of the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u10	Mr President, this motion for a resolution was introduced by the PS, for which we thank you. We have had good committee meetings, in which there was a good debate. With 50 amendments, this resolution has improved considerably. The Open Vld Group has given its approval in committee and will do so today. However, I would like to make two points which are important to us. The original request 4 as originally stated in the PS resolution was unacceptable to us. In it the outsourcing was abolished. Mr Creyelman already said that it should be possible for us and that it is even an example of efficiency that if other private sector organisations can do non-core tasks better than Defence itself, we should outsource those tasks and not do them ourselves. The amendment tabled by the MR Group has given rise to the removal of this. For the Open Vld it could go much further. The N-VA's proposal sought to delete Article 4. We voted for this together in committee, but that proposal did not succeed. However, it was important to amend that Article 4. That's what happened. The request 17 was incorporated into the proposal by means of an amendment. This is about the raise. First, we should look at what happens in other countries in the Defense Department. There is a need for benchmarking and consultation, but it is very unwise to give a kind of Christmas gift through a resolution. The amendment has been accepted, but fortunately it is only a resolution. We have voted against this particular point, but we will still approve it. An HR policy requires people, because human resources are about people. A number of colleagues have already indicated that there the shoe is wringing. The army is old. DOD wants to go to a younger and smaller army. A lot of new recruitments will have to take place. These recruitments take place in a highly competitive labour market. Not only the Defense will fish in the pond of interested in security departments, also the police need additional staff and fish in that pond. Then there are the private security organisations and the state security that fish in the same pond. That is why I think it is important, as the resolution states, to give not only recruitment but also positioning an important role. DOD needs to become a little more attractive and sexy as an employer. The challenge lies ahead, because without staff there is simply no HR policy. With Open Vld we will support this resolution in the vote in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u11	Mr President, the resolution before us today is a text that combines a lot of good intentions, a lot of good intentions, which must make the army a more interesting employer. If this text finds a broad majority here today, then I think it is also an important political signal, because then we, as politicians, show that we are reaching out to Defence to ensure that the army gets out of the crisis. In the coming years, we will replace half of our soldiers. Together with the materials that are coming, this means a great innovation. We are now at an important hinge moment. If we do not succeed in reversing the downward curve, then the function of transition manager should really be converted into crisis manager, even if they do not like to hear it from the Defense Department, and we must avoid that at all times. There are many good elements in this resolution to accommodate this, as has already been explained by the author, Mr Bayet. I think there are opportunities, too. Next Tuesday we can talk to the new CHOD in Parliament. I hope, therefore, that we will learn more about the results and proposals of the transition team. After that, politics and the Defense Department have to get to work. In addition, we will have to make choices. In this context, a number of cases have already been clarified. This is how the outsourcing was already discussed. In the current circumstances, I believe that it can be done, but we remain of the opinion that this should always be taken critically. For some tasks this may be a structural solution, but for others it does not seem appropriate to us. Today it is the politics that makes a move, but I think that as an employer, Defence will also have to change shape. A soldier anno 2020 looks at the army in a different way than a soldier 20 or 30 years ago. Soldiers are prepared to do foreign missions, but they also need a good balance with their family life. Soldiers are willing to keep exercises far from home and with little luxury, but they also like to fulfil their day job close to home. DOD's gonna have to deal with that. If half of the army is replaced by a renewed and rejuvenated army, which will probably be much more diverse than before, then there are opportunities to work with these new soldiers, but the defence summit will have to give clear signals. I can't ignore actuality. If we read in the newspaper today about the abuses surrounding paratraining in Marche-les-Ladies, then we see Defense on its smallest side. There too, transition is needed. Soldiers have to protect us, but the military top must protect the soldiers from abuse of power. I am convinced that 99% of soldiers are disgusted by this kind of situation. The problem, however, lies in the structure and the atmosphere that makes it difficult to talk about this. This change will also have to be made within the army to ensure that it is an employer where the soldiers feel at home. sp.a will support this text because we are in favour of a strong government and because we believe that, in addition to providing good social security and education, the government should also provide security for our citizens. I know that most people think primarily of fire and police, but for us the army can also play an important role in this, both at home and abroad, depending on the circumstances. We all know it won't be easy. Reference was made to the previous legislature, where a number of important points have indeed been made. Those buttons cost money and the payoffs start now. It's about huge budgets. We are in a crisis and there is likely to be an economic crisis. We shouldn't patronize, it won't be easy. On the contrary, it will be difficult, but that is why it is important that we give this signal today that we can do what our party considers to be very important, especially investment in staff and in buildings. We will support this signal and I look forward to working together on my party's behalf in the future on this issue and looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u12	Mr President, first of all I would like to endorse what Mr Buysrogge said. I believe that the previous legislature was very important to the defense. We have finally re-invested in infrastructure and in materials. We have placed many billions of orders. Stilan enters the F35s and orders for the Navy and the Army. For the first time in decades, the Swedish Government has put a very ambitious agenda on the table and approved it so that it can get back the good material it needs if it is to be operational. That is a good thing. That an initiative is now being taken by the PS to draw attention to the staff, we believe that the N-VA is right. Under the Swedish Government there was a great deal of attention for the staff, but there is indeed a great wave of retirement. Our army is gloomy. In this sense, a motion for a resolution which calls for attention to be given to human resources policy is appropriate. This will be the most effective challenge for the Defense Department in the coming years. The orders have been placed. The big budgets have been spent. In the years to come, we must bet on personnel, on the military. You're damn right I didn't. We will therefore support the proposal. Originally, it seemed that they wanted to deal with the new initiatives of the Swedish Government, and that was of course not acceptable to our party, which in recent years had delivered the defence ministers Vandeput and Loones. Of course, we would never lose the policy of our own ministers. During the course of the debate, some of the sharp edges were filed: provisions relating to OVG and outsourcing are all out. We abstained in the vote in committee, but after the adoption of the amendments we can support the latest version of the proposal. It's a sign on the wall. Imagine: we will support the PS resolution proposal. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the incidents in Marche-les-Ladies. I did not ask a topical question about this today, because I knew that there would be a discussion in plenary on staff policy. I've been doing some digging into that over the last few days. I had received a phone call asking what my reaction was and whether I knew that things were going wrong there, that there was abuse of power and that authority was being handled in a humiliating manner. I didn't know anything about that. I have also been further informed. I think we should be careful with the accusations. I always do. I've been there a lot as Secretary of State. I've had a lot of accusations about me. That was often a blow in the water. I have also had to make a number of accusations for my officials, for my services, for the police services involved in foreign affairs. That was almost always a battle in the water. Later it turned out there wasn't that much going on. One must always be careful with accusations. I've read the testimonies. I have also informed myself of this. I think it's necessary for the government to launch an internal investigation in Marche-les-Ladies. Mr Bacquelaine, I hope you will also give that to your colleague in the Defence Department. That's not too far from your home base either, Mr Bacquelaine. I think an investigation is necessary. I hear that the quality of training is falling, partly due to a lack of staff. People make soldiers that they prefer, instructor. For our elite troops, I am in favour of a very hard education. In Flanders many people watched the episodes of Camp Waes with the special forces on VRT. One has made a wonderful series about that. It was shocking for many people how hard our elite troops are trained. In training, it goes on as in reality. People are being dropped behind the lines. One is being held hostage by a hostile power. People are being tortured. That's very harsh sometimes. Those are very confrontational images. Everyone's seen it. It was the most popular series of VRT over the last 12 months. I have nothing against that. You have to. They're elite soldiers for something. Those people need to be trained in reality. If, however, there is a permanent, derogatory, violent use of certain means in a humiliating way, with abuse of authority, then a red line is crossed, which my group will never accept. Internal monitoring must be organised as a matter of urgency. I'm not saying that it is, but I'm saying that there are major articles about that today, including in Latest News. I'm asking for a thorough investigation. I don't want to accuse anyone. For that I have already experienced too much empty accusations in the Chamber at one's address, which can never defend itself, because it is not here. Mr Bacquelaine, I am asking for an internal investigation by the government into possible malpractice and malpractice in the training of our paracommand unit at the training camp in Marche-les-Ladies. I shall conclude, Mr President. I did not put a question, but I wanted to take the opportunity to raise the issue because it is very topical. I hope you'll forgive me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u13	Mr President, not to mention the resolution, I would just like to comment on the facts that have occurred in Marche-les-Dames. It is clear that, since a certain government, military justice has been abolished except in times of war. If the facts that have occurred have given rise to complaints, it will be up to the civil justice to examine these facts and to investigate them. It's compatible with an internal investigation, but if there are complaints, it's a civil justice case. There is no more military justice, there is no more particular justice for the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u14	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u15	• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 53 ♪ Nadia Moscufo (567/7) Demand/Request 30 (n) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 51 "Steven Creyelman cs" (567/7) Demand/Request 30 (n) 52 "Steven Creyelman cs" (567/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u16	The amendments are adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public However, the Council has The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u17	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Özlem Özen, Ludivine Dedonder, Sophie Thémont, Patrick Prévot, Évita Willaert, Julie Song.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u18	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that, when this was on the agenda of the plenary last time, we decided to request the opinion of both the Court of Auditors and the Council of State. I have spoken with both venerable institutions and I have insisted that the opinions be received this week. That has been achieved and I should like to thank these institutions for respecting that timing. In the meantime, the bill has been re-examined in committee and is on the agenda of the plenary session today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal, which originally only allowed artists to accumulate their unemployment benefit indefinitely with copyright and related rights, was first discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs on 21 April 2020. An opinion was also requested from the Council of State. When the opinion of the Council of State was available, the proposal was re-examined in the Social Affairs Committee on 26 May 2020. We also tabled amendments to respond to the comments of the Council of State. They were also approved. At that time, amendments were also adopted by Mrs Dedonder to extend the reference periods for maintaining the first benefit period with the higher benefit of 60% until 21 December 2020. The second reading of the bill took place on 9 June 2020. At that committee session, Mrs Dedonder again amended the proposal, with a provision providing for the extension until 31 December 2020 of the 18-month reference period for the viewing of an offer as inappropriate for an artist, and a provision in her other legislative proposal No. 1200, which would make unemployment benefits accessible to all persons who have carried out at least five artistic or technical activities in the artistic sector or carried out such activities for 10 days in the period from 13 March 2019 to 13 March 2020, i.e. the year before the corona crisis broke out. That amendment was adopted by an amendment by Mrs Galant in an amended form, which makes unemployment benefits accessible if ten artistic or technical services or twenty such activities were carried out in the artistic sector during the same period. Mr President, at the plenary session of 18 June 2020, the proposal for an opinion was sent to the Council of State and the Court of Auditors, just because the draft law was changed by means of an amendment and no opinion had been requested from the Council of State for that amendment. For the other bill No. 1200 had not been asked for an opinion from the Council of State. Since the proposal had been added to the other legislative proposal by means of an amendment, it was decided at the plenary session to forward it to the Council of State for its opinion. Yesterday, the bill was re-examined in the Committee on Social Affairs. I refer to the written report for the first and second readings, but I do have to give an oral report on the part that we discussed yesterday. The legislative proposal that we discussed yesterday aims to make a number of adjustments. Firstly, artists who receive unemployment benefits may accumulate unlimited income from copyright and related rights. Secondly, the reference period for maintaining the higher unemployment benefit of 60% is extended. Thirdly, the reference period in which one also has the right to refuse a non-artistic job offer is also extended. Fourthly, the unemployment benefit shall be accessible to all persons who have carried on at least 10 artistic or technical activities in the artistic sector or have carried on such activities for 20 days during the same period, one year before the corona crisis or from 13 March 2019 to 13 March 2020. There were amendments to that. Firstly, Mrs Dedonder proposed an amendment to Article 2 to bring that into line with the opinion of the Council of State, which allows a derogation so that the reduction of unemployment benefits does not apply to those who receive income from copyright or related rights in the period from 1 April 2020 to 31 December 2020. That amendment was accepted. Mrs Dedonder's next amendment was also accepted. This was about the suspension of the twelve and eighteen-month reference periods which would start from 13 March and not from 1 April, as stated in the original bill. An amendment was then tabled to prevent a disadvantage for workers in the cultural sector whose status expires between 13 March 2020 and 31 December 2020. That amendment was also adopted. Article 6 was then discussed. This has been discussed for a long time and several amendments have been tabled, including one by Mrs De Jonge and myself, to calculate access to unemployment benefit not on the basis of benefits but on the basis of working days, as is the rule today when determining access to unemployment. Unfortunately, that amendment was not accepted. Mrs De Jonge and myself then tabled an amendment to increase the number of working days to 78 instead of the 20 days planned. That amendment was not accepted either. An amendment was also tabled by Mrs Dedonder on a proposal from the Council of State, clarifying that it concerns benefits for which social security contributions were paid. That amendment was accepted. There was also an amendment by Mrs Galant which provides for the temporary nature of this measure, namely that it ends on 31 December 2020. This means that anyone who entered it during this exceptional period loses the right on 31 December, after which the normal working days apply. Mrs Galant's amendment was accepted. At that time, of course, there was a more extensive debate, because then it was about the essence for which we sent the bill to the Council of State. The political groups will explain this, but I can say briefly that Mr Anseeeuw did not agree, especially since the threshold for access to unemployment benefits was considerably reduced. Mrs Dedonder has agreed because this is a temporary measure, but she also wants to see a rapid and structural reform of the artist's statute. Ms Matz regretted that the measure was not valid until 13 March 2021, as was shown during the hearings, in order to reach a neutral year. Mrs Willaert and Mrs Vanrobaeys agreed, but they both respected the political compromise reached and supported the temporary period until 31 December 2020. Mr De Vuyst did not agree to the temporary period until 31 December 2020. I myself have indicated that this temporaryity seems logical to me, as we also apply this temporaryity to other measures in relation to other groups. This is a corona-related measure, but, of course, we also need to have a broader debate on the artist's statute. On Article 7, Mrs Dedonder tabled an amendment, also in order to comply with the opinion of the Council of State, allowing people to apply to the RVA for revision of their rights or to have access to that right. That amendment was adopted. Mrs Galant tabled an amendment to introduce a new article into the legislative proposal. That article gives the King the opportunity to supplement or extend the law. That amendment was also accepted. In the vote on the whole, the members of the N-VA voted against. The members of Ecolo-Groen, PS, Vlaams Belang, MR, PTB/PVDA and sp.a voted in favour. CD&V and Open Vld have abstained. Mr President, so much for the report. Soon I will speak on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u20	All the groups are included in the debate. As usual, we are starting with the largest group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, Mrs Lanjri has given a very good and very detailed explanation of the origins of this proposal. That had a lot of feet in the earth. A combination of two legislative proposals is now before us. The red-green bill supported by the Flemish interest that gives cultural artists easier access to unemployment benefits than other professions creates unfair, unequal treatment between artists on the one hand and other unemployed on the other. The N-VA Group will not support this. Several artists are not having it easy these days, which is true, just as many other people are not having it easy in society today. Today, everyone in Belgium still has to work at least 312 days in order to qualify for unemployment benefit. With this proposal from the left-wing parties and the Flemish Interest, we must now explain to all unemployed people that they must work 312 days before anything comes, unless they are an artist. Then one gets the full pot after barely twenty days of work. This is unfair and cannot be explained to the more than three million employees in Belgium. Apparently, until now, the N-VA is the only party that wants to treat the unemployed on an equal footing, while artists already have a more advantageous system of unemployment benefits than other unemployed people. What is now going on is a scheme whereby artists have to work only 20 days in the reference period where any other countryman has to work at least 312 days for this purpose. In future, artists will also be able to combine unemployment benefit with income from work indefinitely. That is a precedent without precedent. Explain that to all those other workers in this country who have to contribute much more and wait much longer before they can claim that benefit. We are not just saying that, but the RVA has also expressed this in its opinion on this proposal. They argued that this is contrary to one of the basic principles of our social security, namely that unemployment insurance is only there for people who have no job and cannot earn income from work. I therefore strongly believe that parties such as Groen, sp.a and Vlaams Belang, who are always full of honest taxation, show the complete opposite, with preferential treatment for a select group of artists at the expense and at the expense of all the other unemployed who have contributed much more and have to wait much longer for such a benefit. Even if the Council of State has no legal objections to this proposal, it is still our responsibility to decide whether or not to continue with this preferential treatment. That is also what the Council of State said. We are talking about preferential treatment for artists against more than 3 million workers, many of whom are now trying to make ends meet as a result of COOVID-19. The N-VA will not get involved in this preferential treatment, while many other people in our society are also having a hard time. Many artists are not waiting for this and find 20 days of work ridiculously little. This intervention has been sold in committee as a temporary measure since the beginning of the discussion, but only yesterday an amendment was adopted which now applies until 31 December 2020. So the door to improper use was closed. Unfortunately, there was a second amendment, including the MR, which opened the back door at the same time. This amendment makes it possible for the King, without any parliamentary debate, to reopen the door again from 1 January next year and extend the measure. In other words, this temporaryity is very doubtful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u22	Have you ever had a discussion with one of those artists? Do you know what it is like to work from spectacle to spectacle, on projects that are not paid for for days? After all, they get nothing for days. For days, you don't get a kopeck! And then one may be paid on the day on which one can deliver. That is the reality of many artists in one of the richest countries in the world. You're just talking about privileged people and we can't provide a system for that. There is no statute for artists in this country. We just drop most of our artists. Most of our artists must manage to continue to create at their own expense because, in reality, our country has no status as an artist. It is a "woodwood" status, an interim status because we are not able, while our country is one of the richest countries in the world, to have a real status for our artists. I don't understand the point of view of the N-VA! I don't understand that at all. N-VA has a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u23	Mr Hedebouw, your group will be registered later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u24	We can argue!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u25	You can ask a question but you cannot advance your group's intervention. We respect the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u26	Mr President, I'm going to ask you a question. I'll put it down very clearly. What does the N-VA propose for these artists who are paid only on the day of the show? What do you propose for the other days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u27	Mr Hedebouw, thank you for your intervention. You give me the opportunity to clarify a number of things even further. For starters, yes, I speak to artists as well. There are a lot of artists, actors, singers, singers, dancers, dancers, who are very active at present in COVID-times, with the provision of training courses, with the provision of internships and things like that more. I do speak with a lot of artists from different branches of art. No problem at all. One cannot put all artists on the same footing. Your argument is as follows. Many artists spend days, unpaid, in preparation for the work for which they are eventually paid. This is the case in many other sectors of our society. There are many self-employed workers, contractors, who make dozens of offers in the hope that they can bring in two or three for which they will eventually be paid. There are a lot of architects who are participating in a public tender in the hope that they will receive a contract, who make preliminary drafts without being sure that they will get them. It is not so strange in our society that people are not paid for preparatory work. That goes without saying. That's the way it is. That will be reflected in the price when they are paid. That actually makes sense to me. I don't see why that would be completely different for artists. But this is, of course, about an elementary principle. Unemployment benefits are paid to people who are not in employment and who therefore have no income. That's what this is about. This proposal makes it possible for any artist in the country on top of the money he receives from work, for example from copyright, to receive unemployment benefits. If the average shopkeeper from the Carrefour around the corner got a benefit on top of his salary, everyone would be on their back feet. Then the gate was of the dam. Then everyone could start asking. That is what this discussion is about. That is what this proposal is about. That is why I say that the impact of the possible adoption of this proposal is far more far-reaching than just the arts sector or artists' statute. This is a precedent. This is a basic principle of our unemployment insurance which is being violated. Once that door opens, they'll never be completely closed. That's my concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u28	Mr President, Mr Anseeeuw, I would like to return to the second point you just made, namely the comparison with the self-employed who also make unpaid offers and do not know whether they are going to get a job or not. However, you are forgetting one thing: the corona crisis. Those artists haven't been able to pull anything in for four months. Now they can get something back. That's where your equation ends. You have still not answered Mr Hedebouw's question. What are you suggesting? Because these self-employed people have been given bridging credits, which are already worth EUR 1 billion at the moment. This measure will cost 80 million this year to help these people temporarily. If you want to make that comparison, go ahead with it. Or answer what you are proposing instead to help these people, if I may assume that you want to give them some support, and not EUR 0, like in the last four months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u29	Mrs Willaert, there is one flaw in your comparison, and that is, of course, all of your speech. That's too bad for you, not for me. It is true that self-employed workers have had to stop their activities in order to obtain that right of bridging. Copyrights keep coming in, COVID or not. So it's just the other way around. You can twist and twist in all kinds of turns, you're not gonna throw me off. This is a precedent without precedent, because here unemployment benefits are combined with income from labour, and unlimited. This is completely irresponsible behavior. We're not gonna be a part of that. It's that simple. With this kind of barnyards, with this kind of preferential treatment for a particular group, we are not going to make it and those artists are not going to make it. Such measures are not the solution for all these artists. We're not helping them with that. You, of course, failed in committee to pursue that debate, but that was your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u30	Mr Hedebouw, you have already interrupted Mr Anseuw once, and I am applying the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u31	Mr President, I would like to make a nuance. Mr Anseuw, two weeks ago you made two points in plenary. You said there were two problems with that bill. The first was discrimination. I found the equation you made at the time quite interesting. We opened the door and that door stays open. On the basis of these two arguments, we decided to refer the text to the Council of State and the Court of Auditors. Until there, we agreed. Then we got the advice. You've also been able to take note of it. The Council of State says there is no discrimination. You have to admit that. You cannot say that there is discrimination. In addition, the Council of State and the Court of Auditors say that one can do an intervention, but that one can do it in time. can be limited. That's exactly what happened in committee. We have decided there that the scheme will cease on 1 January 2021 and that the government - MR says that it may be extended. The government, which now consists of three parties, says very clearly that the measure is limited in time. In other words, the measure is now well defined and is not discriminatory. Here's what I want to ask you. You say that the measure can be combined with an unemployment benefit and a copyright fee if copyrights are already reimbursed during this difficult period. What I do not understand is that you are questioning the measure here, while the Flemish Government is setting up an emergency fund to support artists in conjunction with unemployment benefits and copyright compensation, and last week, on the proposal of the Flemish Minister for Culture, decided to give artists a premium of EUR 1,500. In other words, in addition to what we are doing here, the Flemish Government is doing a serious gesture, which we have also supported. You cannot take two different positions. Either you support that policy and say that you support the artists with a measure that is not discriminatory and limited in time, or you oppose it, but then you must be consistent and withdraw all support in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u32	Mr van Quickenborne, I too would like to thank you for your interruption, because that gives me the opportunity to say that it is not a fight against the artists but rather against the improper use of our social security. The Flemish government's one-off premium does not come from social security. This is about violating a basic principle of social security, which has a precedent value, no matter what it is or what it is. That's my big concern. You point out that you are part of the government and you guarantee me that the measures will not be extended after 31 December. Why, then, did your group approve in committee the amendment which makes it possible to extend the measure? If you ask me to be consistent, I suggest you take a look in the mirror and ask yourself why you are not consistent. Yesterday, you opened up the possibility of extension and today you say that the measure will never be renewed with you. I think that's a little special. With all due respect to you, Mrs. Lanjri, that sounds like cheekery.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u33	Mr President, may I interrupt for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u34	Can I delete anyone who asks to interrupt now from the list of speakers? Normally an interruption is meant to ask a question to the speaker. We had an interesting discussion yesterday in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Reform of Parliamentary Activities. Everyone agreed with me. What we're doing now goes completely against what we agreed to. I give the floor for an interruption if you ask the speaker a question. You will have speaking time to come back to all the points made by the speaker. That is the way we are debating this. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u35	I have replied (...) A solution for me does not exist in such farms, in which a basic principle of our social security is violated. With support for artists, I have no problem. In the meantime, I am glad that you realise that we would like to support artists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u36	I can see that your point of view is different from ours. If we have tabled an amendment allowing the minister to grant a possible extension, it is because we are not sure that the difficult period we are experiencing is not going to continue. Perhaps you think that by December 31, artists will have resumed normal activity? In our view, it is possible that the current period will continue, which is why we are giving the Minister the opportunity to extend the measures. I would admit that you do not agree on the substance, but it is important to know that not all artists enjoy copyright and that artistic production, before generating income, requires a huge work that is never paid. We therefore believe that the difficult period which currently prevents artists from carrying out their activities (in the absence of shows) should be compensated because it could be prolonged. Isn't that your opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u37	With your question, you assume that we could support such measures at all, but we do not want that. We certainly want to support artists, but if there are no events, there are other activities that artists can develop. I have given a number of examples. Besides, I have given examples in the arts sector where they teach internships and training. It's full of it all summer. Many artists are now working in this way and earning their living. That's no problem at all. No one forbids an artist to work temporarily in another sector. We ask so many people. There are sectors that beg for at least temporary forces. We ask so many people, but that is cursing in the cultural church. I think that's special. Why should this group be treated so differently than many other workers in our society? I don't understand that very well. That is, of course, for a fundamental debate, a debate that we have never been able to hold in committee, but I sincerely hope that in the autumn we will be able to have a debate on a real artist's statute and on the situation of artists on the ground. There will also be profound differences of opinion on this, and I have no problem with that, because that is what makes it interesting. However, the debate was never held. I can already hear, literally and figuratively, on the left hand side when I say that an artist who has nothing to do with the bride can temporarily also work in another sector, where there is a lot of demand today. I find it special that none of these are options. Apparently, artists can only work in their own sector, while we require much more flexibility from other people. I find that very strange. The COVID-19 crisis is a strange time for everyone in our society. Of the more than 3 million workers, a third of them had temporary unemployment in the context of the COOVID-19 crisis. I don't have a problem with any of that. We have asked many of these people to work in a different way. Students have twisted themselves in thousands of turns in order to be able to replace their student job somewhere with another, among other things because they need that income for their studies. However, we must not ask artists. You can't do that. Apparently that's not done. We disagree on this. This is my answer to your question, namely that artists can also work in other sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u38	That's the point you've made. You have also expressed your opinion on the questions you have been asked, so proceed, I would say. Soon all the other groups will also have the opportunity to express their views.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u39	I will continue with my speech. The front door was closed yesterday, but the back gate was thrown open. Several members have asked what should or should not be done after 31 December 2020. I challenge you all. Which of you will tell the artists on 31 December 2020 that the crane will shut down? I'm very curious. Maybe now someone will raise their hands and indicate that he or she will. I suspect, however, that no one will raise their hand. That says everything, of course. (The gentlemen of Quickenborne and Piedboeuf raise their hands) Mr President, an interactive debate is fun. In any case, I note that both Open Vld and the MR, which have tabled the amendment allowing for extension, are now proposing never to extend the measure. In that case, you should not have amended the text yesterday. The consequence is lost. The cobbler takes the upper hand. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to apologize, but if I have noticed for weeks that the crane is being opened up in other cases without much consideration, then I do not think you are suddenly showing a great deal of responsibility. The Court of Auditors estimated that the additional costs could reach EUR 84 million by 2020 alone. By 2021, they could reach more than EUR 100 million. Above all, however, as I mentioned earlier, this is a precedent without precedent and the impact of the proposal is much wider than just the arts sector. It is unseen that someone can combine unemployment benefit with income from work indefinitely. The fact that someone has barely had to contribute to our unemployment insurance but can still enjoy it is also true. Colleagues, this proposal undermines the principle of social security. Whoever does that bears a crushing responsibility. Colleagues, the question remains, before I conclude, the following. How will you explain to a young unemployed person who has worked 200 days, that he doesn't get a penny, but that his artistic neighbor gets the full pot, because he's only worked a tenth of those days? Colleagues, you can't explain that. This is fundamentally unjust. Although there is no legal problem in the area of discrimination, we still have a responsibility to choose whether or not we allow this injustice to occur. Our group will not do that. As difficult as some artists may be, with such barracks and privileges, we and they will not make it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return for a moment to the hearings held in committee. We had the pleasure of hearing the cultural sector, the event sector and the arts for a whole day in the House. This moment was important enough for us to call it a historic moment. Unfortunately, during these hearings, not everything was always pink. We've heard some thoughts. Suggestions and recommendations were made to us. We have also heard personal, family, stories from artists who have taught us that for weeks they have no longer been able to pay their bills, their mortgage, fill their fridge. Needless to say, these artists also have a family, children, a woman who sometimes had no work because of the crisis. Some colleagues said that artists still managed to find work during this crisis. That's right! I know a well-known Belgian comedian whose identity I will not reveal who picked strawberries during confinement. I know a manager who became a gardener. I know another one who's become a mailman. Of course, they found temporary work. But do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is really rewarding? Is that what you want for artists who, today, no longer have work because of the crisis? That's not what I want for them. What I want for them is aid, aid that can provide answers to these people who have been waiting for the federal level to take the cultural sector and its workers into account for three months. Three months is therefore the time it took to provide assistance to this sector. It's too long! In the meantime, Parliament, with the support of environmentalists, has adopted numerous measures to support other sectors, families in difficulty. I am thinking here of the banking guarantee for the merchant and non-market sector, the right of access for the self-employed, the corona unemployment for the employees or the deferment of payment in respect of taxation. These were essential initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u41	Mrs Chanson, you will give some examples of artists and directors who have temporarily done a job in another sector. I wonder what kind of problem you have with that. Is it not enough for them to work temporarily as a postman or in the horticultural sector? Is that what you mean? I do not quite understand the problem you see in that. What you mentioned, I just find good examples of people rowing with the belts that are there. If they are unable to work in their own sector, they are looking elsewhere for work. That is what we are actually asking for from a lot of job seekers. Why is it a problem if people from the arts sector would do the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u42	The problem is that finding temporary work is not a political response to a lack of measures that we can take here in Parliament. We cannot hide behind a lack of political decisions by saying that it is not serious and that they will find work in another sector. I regret that in my personal capacity. If I may, Mr President, I will continue with my speech. I was therefore saying that these were essential initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u43	Mr Anseuw is only allowed to intervene once. Mrs Lanjri, you may ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u44	Mrs Chanson, can you list the measures taken by the government for these artists in these corona times? You are now saying that nothing has happened and I challenge you to mention what the government has done. It is very easy to make such populist statements and pretend that nothing has been done by the government. When I speak, I will list what the government has done. Why do you say nothing happened, when I hope you know that a lot of measures have been taken? Would you please list this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u45	Mrs Lanjri, indeed, I should not have said that. We have already had an opportunity to address the issue, and I have asked Mrs Muylle about it myself. I therefore take this opportunity to thank her for the decisions she has taken, and I remove from my speech the word 'nothing', which is too strong in view of the measures already taken, even if I find them insufficient. These were essential initiatives, just as it is essential for me to give special and specific support to the cultural sector and to the artists. As such, I do not understand how certain political groups have not realized how important it was to react and take urgent measures in the light of the health crisis we were going through, as well as the hearings and testimonies that have been reported to us. Such a situation is unacceptable and disrespectful of the people we welcomed at these numerous hearings. The analysis and adoption of this proposal for a law in favour of the cultural sector is the result of a long struggle that we have waged in the Committee on Social Affairs, not only through environmentalists but also other groups such as the PS and DéFI, which have supported and proposed texts. In the end, it was no less than four bills and two motions for resolutions that were introduced. In addition, a day of hearing was organised for the cultural, event and artistic sector, during which passionate discussions were held leading to a favourable vote on a text in the Committee on Social Affairs. While it is still necessary to remind some, the cultural, arts and event sector is the one that has been hardest hit by the coronavirus crisis, as well as the Horeca sector. It is also the sector that will be the last to recover from all the measures taken in the context of this pandemic. Artists, technicians, production and distribution technicians, plasticians, dancers, makeup artists... they've all sounded alarm bells for more than 100 days. The crisis that we are going through has exacerbated the precarious situation that we have already denounced on several occasions in this Parliament itself. These difficulties have been set out by environmentalists for several years. It is time to send a clear signal to the sector most affected economically by this pandemic. That is also why these measures will undoubtedly have to be extended beyond 31 December. It was also with the objective of providing responses to the sector that my group had tabled another bill to put in place an emergency fund for the sector. In view of the need to find a parliamentary majority and to find compromises in order to reach a text as acceptable as possible, I finally took the decision to co-sign the text of my colleague from the PS, who had obtained the urgency and which allowed us to work in a more efficient and structural way in order to obtain urgent measures for the sector, which had been waiting for them for too long. Following the hearings on 29 May and the work carried out in committee, particularly on 9 June, we were able to reach four measures that met the industry's expectations. They are included in the text that you will have the opportunity to vote earlier. First, facilitating access to unemployment benefits for artists and technicians who can demonstrate ten artistic and technical benefits, i.e. twenty working days, between March 13, 2019 and March 13, 2020. Secondly, the neutralisation of Article 130, which allows temporary and uncapped cumulation of unemployment benefits with copyrights. Thirdly, the introduction of a white period for obtaining and maintaining the status of artist during this crisis. Finally, the neutralization of section 31, so that artists are no longer asked to justify 156 days in 18 months. It will therefore no longer be necessary for them to accept jobs which are considered inappropriate and therefore outside the scope of their main occupation. We all know how hard the arts sector is hit. He still hasn't had the opportunity to redeploy. With the measures we are proposing to you today, we believe that it is essential that we can provide them with answers as soon as possible. These four principles are ultimately the first answers to their situation. I hope they won't be the last. We obviously welcome the vote that took place yesterday in the Social Affairs Committee. I hope it'll be confirmed later. But I still have to tell you that our satisfaction is not total. We regret that, at the last minute, amendments had to be introduced, thereby altering the essence and scope of the original text. We regret that the effects of this text are interrupted on 31 December, when it is clear that the effects of the crisis will continue beyond that date for the sector. The sector, and we with it, claim a white year, that is, the three-month extension of the measure as we propose it to you today. It will be possible to extend this measure by royal decree or by means of a law which the Ecolo-Groen Group will deposit. It is regrettable that this has not already been decided in Parliament, as a sign of recognition for all workers in this sector. Finally, we regret that this text is not the full status that the cultural sector has been claiming and hoping for for too long. Let us be optimistic and consider that voting this bill today is a first step; but it is imperative that we go further, in particular by moving quickly towards a structural reform of the status of artist in order to get him, once and for all, out of the scope of the ONEM. These workers are not unemployed. Our group will continue to work actively to ensure that artists are considered as full-fledged workers, whose characteristics we now recognize, including all creative and repetitive work, and the intermittent nature of their performances. The status as it exists today is not appropriate and does not correspond to the realities of the sector. Indeed, the world of culture, and in particular the fate reserved for artists, must be given special attention. Not only in times of crisis, but also the rest of the time. It also requires sufficient budgets, because if culture has a cost, that cost is legitimate. Just imagine the poverty of a cultureless society. We have just experienced a confinement that would not have been the same if we had not been able to read our favorite books, watch series, shows, documentaries or watch a play at a distance, given the health context. What would we eventually do without singers, actresses, writers, sculptors, painters, musicians, poets? But what a sadness! I don't want this world. Culture is the guarantor of our democracy. Ecolo-Groen will continue to fight for a true status as an artist, allowing them to enjoy a stable working life and a decent social status, at the level of these workers. We will not abandon artists and we will continue to push, at all levels of power, to improve their social status. Ladies and gentlemen, today, just as we have done for other sectors, I ask you to support a proposal that will provide support to no less than 250,000 cultural, artistic and event workers. This sector has been waiting too long for help to cope with this terrible ordeal that our society, the whole world, has met in recent weeks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u46	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the artists who have moved in numbers today. It really is a pleasure to feel supported in this House. I also greet the many artists and technicians who also follow us in front of their screens. They have all been mobilised for weeks, for months, and they are now waiting for this Parliament to assume its responsibilities. On April 9, 2020, three months ago, today, we Socialists tabled bills in favour of workers in the arts sector. Because we are with them, we know their difficulties in yesterday's and today's daily life. We felt that they would live in the coming months. From the beginning of the crisis, we knew that they would be among those who would suffer the most, deprived of work, deprived of contracts, deprived of income. For us, there was already no time to lose to support them during this pandemic. We did not wait for them to express themselves in the press, to cry out their distress to act. Right away, we proposed to Parliament that we intervene to avoid this, to prevent them from being unpacked in the media, to prevent them from asking for alms. They amaze us, inspire us, make us think, make us escape, make us laugh. We cannot applaud them in good weather and ignore them when the storm breaks. There is no one-way love! We therefore plead for greater flexibility in the way in which temporary unemployment is granted and welcomed the government's decisions in this direction. In April, we propose a text to facilitate access to unemployment benefits for all artists, for all technicians, by greatly reducing the number of working days or artistic benefits to be justified. We propose a text to correct the unfairness of the non-cumulative rule, allowing the collection of copyright and related rights in addition to unemployment benefits. We also propose the introduction of a white period on 13 March 2020 for obtaining and maintaining the status of artist, in order not to penalize those workers who were unable to exercise because of the crisis. We are also planning this same white period for the notion of "suitable employment". And we commit ourselves immediately to re-examine and re-work in depth the status of artist, which is clearly unsuitable for the reality of the ground. I am therefore pleased that we can finally vote on these measures. In order to dispel any misunderstanding and to ensure that everyone understands it well, I would point out that the provisions we proposed were not limited in time. I would like to recall some essential elements. On 21 April, the PS brought the issue of cultural workers to the Social Affairs Committee. The least we can say is that things didn't start well. As we were faced with a social emergency, a majority of committee members chose to ask for an opinion from the Council of State - not in five, but thirty days! A majority therefore refused the urgency of our text granting social protection to artists and technicians. The tone was set: everything would be done to delay things. We have had to see that no majority will be gathered to adopt our measures in time. Since the word "resignation" is not part of our vocabulary, we continue our struggle for workers in the cultural sector. We are beginning to work together in order to be able to obtain a majority and thus provide a response to these workers. This suggests that these measures could be adopted by limiting them to the urgency of the crisis, with a firm commitment to work immediately for a structural overhaul of the Statute. We then show ingenuity to merge our texts and to be able to vote them before the holidays. Colleagues, I sincerely believe that the situation of artists and technicians deserves better than ideological discourses and postures. It is our responsibility to ensure that measures are taken to provide opportunities for workers in the sector, who at present still have none. Of course, today I am very pleased that this comprehensive text is finally coming to its ultimate end because I am convinced that it presents major advances and a response to the urgency faced by workers in the sector. I still have two regrets. The regret of lost time first. How much energy has been spent, how much fighting since April, how many referrals to committee, requests for opinions, commas de travers, pretexts for a postponement! Then came the famous plenary session of 18 June, where a minority organized themselves to make purely and simply parliamentary obstruction, and to delay the vote again by asking in extremis for an opinion of the Council of State and of the Court of Auditors. This lost time, I do not regret it for me but for all those who are waiting for it. All those who have been plunged overnight into great precariousness and who get up every morning the ball in the belly, wondering how they will do to feed themselves, to pay their rent, to pay their bills. All those whose dream-carrying profession has become a nightmare.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u47	Mrs Dedonder, you describe my referrals in plenary as delaying manoeuvres. For the sake of clarity, if we wanted to delay this proposal, we would have done a trick today. However, we have not done so. We asked for these opinions because it is our duty as a Member of Parliament to conduct the debate as well informed as possible. This is particularly important in order to be able to make a decision, for or against what is now on the table. I would therefore like to make it absolutely clear that it was a question of delaying manoeuvres. If you are honest, you also know that this is not the case because you have at least partially taken the advice of the Council of State to heart. After all, you have tabled no less than four amendments on the basis of that opinion. It's one or the other. Either you consider that advice worthless and a delay manoeuvre, or you consider it valuable, take it into account and amend the proposal. I note that you did that last one. So be so honest as to admit that it was useful to ask for the opinion of the Council of State. In fact, I do not think that anyone has a problem with us finally knowing how much it will cost this year and the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u48	Can I have a glass of water? Mr. Anseew leaves me speechless.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u49	Maybe it's due to a cold or emotion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u50	Mr. President, that's it. It's a special relationship. To answer your question, I am not saying that an opinion of the Council of State is not necessary. An opinion had also been delivered on the proposal for cumulation. I am just saying that this opinion of the Council of State and that of the Court of Auditors could have been tabled before, since our proposal was tabled three months ago. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Dedonder has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u52	Since when do I have authority to refuse, on my own, a request for an opinion? I'm going on. As regards the Council of State, Mr Anseeuw, you will also note that we had made amendments long before your opinion was requested, although we have made some of them recently. That being said, we understand your point. I think we'll never agree. I'm just saying that these opinions could have been asked before and that it wasn't me alone, or even the PS group alone, who didn't want to. You have obtained this majority here in plenary for these opinions. So explain to me how you couldn't ask them beforehand!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to intervene. The most important thing is that the opinions are before us. Mr Anseuw and Mrs Lanjri, you do not have to agree with the answers given here. It is also possible that you find elements factually incorrect. That is precisely what a debate is for. I just want to say that the opinions of both the Court of Auditors and the Council of State have been requested. As President-in-Office of the Council, I made sure that they were put in place in good time. Then there was a consensus to discuss the bill today. Once again, after participation, a ruling can be followed today, before the parliamentary recess. I like the debate, I want to let it go. However, the speaker is now systematically interrupted, even by members who are still on the list of speakers. I would ask you to keep an eye on the time. Mrs. Dedonder, you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u54	Mr. President, I will continue. I would also like to thank you for ensuring that this opinion of the Council of State, which was not requested as a matter of urgency, can reach us before the parliamentary holidays. Let's talk about this, let's talk about it! The amounts advanced are, according to the authors themselves, maximalistic. Indeed, 80 million euros is a cost, but it is the price to pay to offer social protection to artists and technicians. This is what it takes to allow them to hold on to the crisis. For my part, the cost I find unbearable is that of misery. As a result, I am not shocked by the 80 million granted to workers. On the other hand, what shockes me is that some people don't like it. Why would workers in this sector be the only ones not entitled to any compensation? There is temporary unemployment for some and the right bridge for others – and that is very good – and there would be nothing, or hardly, for the cultural world? I forgot: for some, being an artist is not a profession; it is a leisure! It also seems that some people compare me to Saint Nicholas, with all these "gifts" to the artists... I recall that we are talking well here about granting an unemployment benefit to persons deprived of work and remuneration since March. We're talking about a little over 1,000 euros a month, if we're isolated. We are talking about allowing artists to receive all their copyrights and related rights and to collect the income they themselves have generated after many years of hard work. I don't think these are gifts, but just recognition. If I call myself "saint Nicolas" amuses you, it suits me very well: he, at least, gives joy and hope! I was just talking about regrets. I also regret that I have not been able to go further in the scope of these measures. Yes, we have had to make this concession in order to find a majority and, at a minimum, to ensure that solutions are adapted, in times of crisis, in favour of the cultural and artistic world. One of yours is better than two. Our desire has always been to fundamentally reform a status that is in total contrast to the reality of the cultural, artistic and event world, as well as to create the optimal conditions under which artists, directors, authors, scenographers, machinists, lighting designers, administrators, editors, cameramen, make-up designers, decorators, costume designers, sound technicians – and I pass by, so many of them – can evolve, recognizing their added value for society. Indeed, while culture is often seen as a vector of emancipation, it is rarely pointed out that culture is also an economic factor that generates wealth, that it contributes significantly more to the gross domestic product than the expenditure it generates from the community. Culture contributes significantly to the economic development of a region. It is accompanied by economic benefits for the horeca sector, which is highly demanding of cultural events and activities, as well as for the countless companies that supply the materials used to carry out projects and employ nearly 250,000 people in our country, not to mention indirect jobs. Therefore, let us stop once and for all condemning the artist to beg his life. Today, the confirmation of this Wednesday's vote would mean a great step forward, a step in the right direction but certainly not to stop there. In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Socialist Party, Özlem Özen, Patrick Prévot and Sophie Thémont, who co-signed the text, my colleagues from Ecolo-Groen who also co-signed it, and all the colleagues who supported our bill from the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to the report. Mrs Lanjri, it will probably be a forgetfulness, but I myself had also briefly intervened to draw everyone's attention to his responsibility in this dossier, and I had said that work on the artist's statute must be urgently carried out. In recent months there has been a lot to do about the artist's statute. Of course, a first obstacle is the fact that the whole social dimension of the arts and culture sector is still federal until further notice. The fundamental competence for art and culture was entrusted to the Communities, but they do not have the tax and social powers to implement their policies. Unfortunately, this duality does not make it easier to do something policy-wise for artists in this House. We are aware that the health measures, and in particular the lockdown, the cancellation of events, festivals, exhibitions, etc., have reduced the cultural and artistic sector to a financial battlefield. Artists and cultural workers saw their income suddenly and unexpectedly dwindling dramatically. Costs incurred for planned shows, exhibitions and tours are largely lost and cannot be made up for by income. The corona crisis illustrates the fragile situation of the people working in the artistic sector. Too often it is thought that the sector consists only of artists and artists, but people behind the scenes often forget: freelancers, such as technicians or stage builders, but also photographers and others, who are also a vulnerable group. Let me make it clear that we support this proposal in the context of temporary corona measures. I do not expect immediate applause from the cultural sector, but we are looking at the social aspect. Many artists, and by extension the whole sector, have been unable to exercise their profession for months and cannot avail themselves of other support measures. Just because different statutes are combined in the cultural sector, they often fall out of the loop. The amendments tabled by Mr Lanjri and Mr De Jonge, which, on the one hand, make use of the cachet rule for the calculation of working days, whereby a performance wage can be converted to working days and, on the other hand, increase the number of days worked from 20 to 78 working days, were supported by our group. We also note, however, that these amendments were not adopted in committee yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that our group will support this temporary measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u56	Mrs Samyn, I have a question. You have now said twice that you will support this proposal. Temporary, but we all know that temporary is relative, because in the proposal there is the possibility of extension and extension and extension. I think it is important to highlight this once again. If you approve this, you cannot prevent any extension at the end of this year. You must be aware of that. The question I would like to ask you is how you will explain to a young unemployed person who has worked 200 days, then becomes unemployed and is told that he cannot get a cent of unemployment benefit because he is not entitled to it, that his artistic neighbor gets the full pot after 20 days. How will you explain this to the young unemployed person who becomes unemployed after 200 days of work and does not receive benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u57	Mr Anseuw, I insist that this is a temporary measure. The aim is to support everyone who is in financial difficulties, especially in this already fragile sector. Mr Van Quickenborne has already mentioned that your party in the Flemish Parliament has already taken measures. Everyone is entitled to a decent benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u59	We have asked questions about such a measure. We would also support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u60	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u61	I can explain. I just think this is a temporary measure. We will continue to support this, because those people are in the cold and are currently standing in the cold. The Flemish Interest Group will support this temporary measure. As has been mentioned several times in the committee and during the hearings, in addition to the curries am Symptom, we need a decent and comprehensive statute for the entire cultural sector. Better social protection must be a matter of course, without making the artist or the worker in the arts a privileged category. Here too, it is a story of rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u62	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the pandemic, many sectors have experienced an unprecedented crisis. The containment measures advised by the National Security Council and implemented by the Government have led to the outright closure of many activities. This shock, as brutal as it was suddenly, has had a catastrophic impact on many sectors. Unfortunately, the artistic, cultural and event sector has not pulled its pin from the game, far from it. The characteristics of this sector, with its many different contracts, small contracts, successive daily contracts, and many others, have further strengthened the crisis for all those working in the cultural and event sector. No more performances since March 13, no more opportunities to organize rehearsals or to plan future events. The future of this whole sector was more than uncertain. The government, through Minister Muylle, quickly took specific measures for artists, particularly with regard to unemployment. Those who are self-employed have also been supported, thanks to the measures implemented by Minister Ducrame. But it happened that a number of artists and technicians, specifically because of the peculiarities of their status, remained on the edge of the road. And that was not admissible, neither for my group, nor for myself. We understood that the urgency of the measure had to be taken, pending a more comprehensive reform of the status of the artist – a reform that we believe must come as part of the formation of the next government, as explained by our president. Take the urgency of the measure, do not leave these people on the side of the road, the whole stake was there. Many proposals were on the table. We held hearings in the sector, which allowed us to understand where it was imperative to act quickly. We finally opted, by the majority, to work on the basis of our colleague Ludivine Dedonder's proposal. Again, I repeat, it was a matter of action, and the MR worked in that direction. In concrete terms, what are we providing as an emergency solution? First of all, the total abolition of the limitation of the cumulation between unemployment benefit and copyright or related rights, so that these artists are not penalized financially on the amount of their unemployment in times of crisis over the period from 1 April to 31 December 2020. Secondly, the suspension, during the VOCID crisis and until the end of the year, of the reference periods of 12 or 18 months included in the regulation of unemployment in order to maintain the status of artist and his counterpart with regard to suitable employment. Finally, all persons active in the cultural, artistic or event sector who do not enjoy a protected status and who find themselves without a safety net will also be entitled to the right to unemployment from 1 April to 31 December 2020, provided that they can prove that they have performed in the year preceding the pandemic either at least 10 artistic or technical benefits or at least 20 days of activity in these sectors, provided that these activities have been subject to contributions. Strong measures – as I told you – to support this sector in great difficulty are included in the text that my group and I will support, which will enable artists and technicians above all to get past the crisis we are experiencing, pending a genuine global overhaul of the statute. It must be recognised, ladies and gentlemen, that these measures are very favourable to these artists and technicians. Maybe too much to the taste of some. If we compare the conditions for opening up the right to unemployment for artists and technicians with those for other categories of workers, I can understand some reluctance. However, as the Council of State pointed out in its opinion, "in the context of a temporary measure dictated by special circumstances, it may be accepted that this special scheme applicable to a specific category of persons does not present a ratio of clearly unreasonable proportionality to the objective pursued, much more than to the other categories of unemployed". All this confirms the need for a comprehensive reform in the medium term. As our President has said, in order for this reform to be complete and effective, we will have to take the time to analyse all aspects, be they social, fiscal, parafiscal, of this own regulation. It's one of the missions waiting for the next government. In the meantime, as the Committee on Social Affairs has confirmed, it will take time to listen again to the sector and the field experts in order to identify their needs as best they can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u63	Mrs Galant, I have a question concerning the temporary nature of the measure, which we have just mentioned. Yesterday, on behalf of your group, you tabled an amendment to allow the measure to be extended after 31 December. I have just asked the Members present, some of whom have interrupted me, who will tell the artists on 31 December that the crane will shut down? Two Members have said on behalf of their group that they will and one of them was your group leader. I am therefore very interested to hear what happened between yesterday and today, which has given us a new insight. After all, if your group leader says anything, I will take his word for it. Yesterday you tabled an amendment to allow for an extension, today it is said that an extension will not be approved. What have you repented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u64	Mr Piedboeuf is quoted. Or is Mrs Galant going to answer? The question has been asked, which is not allowed, to Mr Piedboeuf. Mrs Galant can also answer. By the way, Mr Anseuw, an answer has just been given. I'll summarize it for you. Normally, the scheme expires at the end of the year. Mr Piedboeuf said: who says that we can work in normal conditions at the end of the year? He referred to the corona pandemic and asked himself the question: what if the corona pandemic still makes it impossible at that time to restore a normal situation? He didn't say that? I think I've listened carefully, but you seem to have understood differently?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u65	Mr President, no, that is not what he said. It is claimed here: the crane of the temporary measure closes at the end of the year. Point final. Two people raised their hands. One was the group leader of the MR. I do not care who answers on behalf of the group, but I want to know what has changed between yesterday and today. Yesterday the opportunity to extend was opened and today we are told that we are closing it down. Unless you've come to a new understanding in the last 15 minutes. Then I'd also like to know why you change your mind twice. I am very curious about the reasons for the new view.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u66	The measure was taken during the period VOCID-19. We wanted to limit it to December 31 because many of the measures related to VOCID-19 were taken during that period. Who can say how the recovery of the sector will take place? What will be the situation in December? In December, the possibility will be opened to review the situation if necessary. In conclusion, the sector has experienced and is still experiencing great difficulties. Although the date of gradual de-finition was put forward on 1 July instead of 31 August, the sector's specialities still make the aid essential and will have to continue until 31 December 2020. I hope that you will share this reasoning and therefore support the proposal before you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u67	Democracy is an organised disagreement. Some of the answers are good because we agree, some of them are not good because we have a different opinion. That is precisely the purpose of a debate in this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis has affected many people, some more than others. Some of them either lost their jobs or didn't find one. That is why the government has taken many measures for different target groups, such as employees and self-employed workers, and for economic revival. There were also for the artists. It has just been said that nothing has yet been done for the artists, but I can firmly deny that. The government has even taken various measures. First of all, those who work with a contract of employment and who see their contract of employment suspended may fall back on temporary unemployment. This may be extended at least until 31 August and may be extended for certain sectors, including the cultural sector which is severely affected and for the event sector. If necessary, we can extend that measure, which is provided for. Secondly, anyone working with an interim contract had a contract on 13 March and was able to demonstrate that they were working with separate or successive contracts, which could and can count on temporary unemployment. Thirdly, unemployment benefits are normally reduced after a while. In the meantime, this degressivity has been frozen for all the unemployed and thus for the artists. Fourthly, who worked as a self-employed person, including in the event or culture sector, who could use the right of bridging of EUR 1,300 for a single person or EUR 1,600 for persons with a family burden. This could also be combined if, for example, one was half-time self-employed and half-time employee. The selfemployed were thus also able to receive this contribution, of course partly. Fifth, the three reference periods under the artist's statute were extended. That makes sense. During the corona period there was hardly any work. It was therefore important to extend the reference period during which days could be built. Sixthly, the National Security Council has decided that for those who would normally work with day-to-day contracts as an artist or as a temporary worker in the future or this summer, for example, for lighting up some festival or other event that has now been cancelled, temporary unemployment could be opened up to corona. These people, too, can therefore have an effective right to temporary unemployment. These are as many as six measures the federal government has already taken. I will not dwell on what the regions are doing. Recently, the Flemish government has decided to give a premium of 1,500 euros, but that is only for artists or artists who would not be covered by any other measure and who would therefore fall without anything. This may vary from region to region. These are, after all, a number of far-reaching measures that are necessary. The government has done well to take these necessary measures for the arts sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u69	In addition, we have, of course, had an interesting discussion in Parliament following organised hearings with the arts sector. We have continued on a number of legislative proposals that have been passed, including by the PS. Among other things, the PS proposal provided for a combination of copyrighted unemployment benefits and the extension of the reference periods until the end of the year. In it, the CD&V group followed them. We were able to support all these measures. The CD&V Group has even tabled amendments, and they have also been adopted, in order to comply with the opinion of the Council of State. That's about the original bill relating to the accumulation. Then things got harder for us. At some point during the second reading of the bill, it was suddenly decided to add a completely different bill, on the number of days that had to be carried out, to that first bill on cumulation. On that bill of performance, no opinion had been requested from the Council of State. We had asked that in committee, but that was rejected. That is also democracy, there was no majority for it, but we did make it. We must not be accused of wasting time. We have indeed asked for the other legislative proposal, but it has not been approved in committee. The other legislative proposal, which was annexed to the first legislative proposal by means of an amendment, ensured that artists who performed ten technical or artistic activities between 13 March 2019 and 13 March 2020, including technical activities, colleagues in the artists sector, which is equivalent to twenty days worked, have access to unemployment benefits. That's hard for us. We cannot go along with that. It is, of course, correct to say that we know this and we know that this is difficult to understand that artists who did not have access to the artists' statute before corona would not have access to unemployment benefit at present, especially in corona times. Ladies and gentlemen, this also applies to other unemployed people. Let me give you the example of someone who only graduated as a cook in 2019. Normally, a younger 312 days has to work. Suppose he worked 300 days until just before corona, after which the lockdown followed and the restaurants closed. He then lacks 12 days to get a benefit. He does not receive this unemployment benefit because the regulations stipulate that he must have worked 312 days. In addition to that young person, we are now putting people out of the artists sector. I know the equation doesn't go very well. Even now, artists from the artists sector had to work 312 days. However, they can now receive benefits with ten benefits or twenty days worked. A cook, who has just as much artistic talent for me, does not come with 300 days, while someone else, who may have worked only twenty days or ten performances, will come. This is very difficult for us, although the Council of State states that this special arrangement for a specific category of persons does not in itself show any manifest and unreasonable disproportionateness for the intended purpose. However, the Council leaves the rest to politics. For us, however, the comparison with the other unemployed remains an important benchmark, because we are widening the gap with the other unemployed. After all, there is a specific statute for unemployed artists, who are given a more favourable status in unemployment. They have no advantages in getting into the system, but once they are in the system they are favoured. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not have the debate again, but you know that for the extension, for example, three achievements in one year are sufficient. The gap with the ordinary unemployed is widening, and we do not agree with that, especially since unemployment is built on the principle of insurance and this proposal goes against it. I get it from someone who does the lighting in a factory, not that, although he has worked for example 300 days, he does not have access to unemployment benefits, but that someone who does the lighting at festivals does get access to unemployment. There is still unequal treatment, and it is very difficult for us to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u70	Mrs Lanjri, both you and Mr Anseeeuw refer to the working days for young people. Mr Anseeeuw's party is not in the government, but yours is. Then why wasn't that done?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u71	There is no artist's statute in many other countries. I also spoke to artists before I was asked to do so. They are grateful that we introduced that artist's statute in the previous legislature, with my party in the government. I have already said in committee that it is not perfect, and I will explain it in a moment, if you will allow me to go into that further. There is indeed work to be done on this, but it is not because there are still shortcomings in the artist's statute that suddenly, because of corona, we have to throw everything overboard, look at nothing and simply change something that has nothing to do with corona in essence. Everyone agrees, however, that the Statute needs to be changed. That is what we said in the course of the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u72	You are talking about the artist's statute, but I was talking about the number of days spent for young people, because both Mr Anseeeuw and you are referring to that. Your party, however, is a policy party, so why isn't there any work done on the 12 days that the younger one is short? Your party could have done something about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u73	Social security is based on solidarity. The principle of solidarity is that one contributes a bit first, one puts something in the pot, and at a time when one is having a hard time, one can take something out of the pot. This contribution lasts at least 312 days, and for older people even a little more. The same applies to self-employed persons. They must also contribute to social security before they are entitled, for example, to a bridging loan. It makes sense that this is true. Unfortunately, those who are not yet covered will not let us stand in the cold either. We have social security. That's where the insurance principle applies. However, should anyone fall outside the insurance principle, there is, fortunately, something we should be proud of: social assistance. People who are really having a hard time can still get benefits, but that would be a living wage. That's a rule that applies to everyone, Mrs. Samyn. Everyone must contribute to this. One cannot get a pension if one has not contributed to the pension. That makes sense, doesn't it? Your party, for example, has always criticized people who, so to speak, did not contribute to their retirement and would still receive one. Well, if you think it is logical that you should first contribute to the pension before you get it, here too: an unemployment benefit is an insurance, so you have to make a contribution before you can get anything out of the pot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u74	Mrs. Lanjri, I have a little question for you. If I understand correctly, you say that an artist, when he does not work, is unemployed like other people who are inactive are unemployed. I have a question for you, Mrs. Lanjri. What does an artist do when he does not prepare, when he does not fulfill a contract day by an artistic performance? I have a little answer. When he does not take, for example, a pianist repeats, trains, creates, produces, imagines, repeats, tries, relaxes. In short, every day of the year, art workers, Ms. Lanjri, work. It was the initial assumption of artist status that, as we have said, has no doubt been mistakenly considered a hybrid status that to date, as we have all said, does not work. To hear here that ten or twenty benefits or days of contract are not sufficient because apart from that, they do not work, I think it is to ignore. I'm sure that's not what you meant, so I'm asking you the question: what does an artist do when he doesn't want to?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u75	Mrs Leroy, you have even received my answer in committee. I agree with you and I wanted to do so, but you must give me a moment to finish my speech. I also know, of course, that the current legislation is not perfect. I also know that someone who writes a book is working on it for a year or maybe two years. Anyone who composes a piece of music needs that time to prepare. Then he also performs, even if the result is only there on a certain day. The wages are, of course, different from those of someone with a day job, like someone who does the lighting. He is now also covered by these achievements. That is why, Mrs Leroy, I have set the example of the man who does the lighting, but for the others the current statute is not really satisfactory. It does not reflect the reality in which artists work. We know that and we agree on that. The question, however, is whether you want to use the corona crisis to do something completely different, so to speak, in a context of temporaryity? Are we going to revise the statute? Yes, we will discuss this further in committee in the future. How should we adapt it? How do we calculate the limits? These calculations will probably be different for visual artists than for others, who, for example, are responsible for the technical execution. The sector said that in the hearings itself. They themselves have said that there are many differences and that it is not as it should be today, but allow me to finish my speech further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u76	Mrs Willaert has another question for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u77	Mrs Lanjri, this is a temporary measure, now. You're talking about things we still have to do. But what is a pianist who has no income for four months supposed to do now? That's what this is about. The pianist is creating and composing, all kinds of things to do with his profession. How does bread get on the shelf for the artist right now? That's the core of what's ahead now. Whatever you mention, we certainly need to address. However, should the pianist from my example approach the OCMW and receive a benefit well below the poverty line? He may not even be able to go to the OCMW because he has a partner with an income.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u78	Mrs Willaert, you know as well as I do that the access we give to artists for the purpose of unemployment benefit is based on benefits that have not taken place during this period, because it was not possible because of the corona measures. The artist must therefore demonstrate performance of for one year before the corona period. The pianist from your example will have done something in the year before the corona outbreak. That is why we should lower the bar a little, I was still prepared to do so. Together with Mrs De Jonge, I have tabled an amendment to reduce the number of days of 312 or 468 or 624 days depending on age to 78, because we wanted to effectively find a compromise and lower the bar. This is not about now, because the days that are taken into account mark the year before corona. One condition is that the artists did something in the year before corona, just as a chef has to prove 312 days performed. For artists and related professions, I would like to lower the bar a little, but not on 20 days, as is now proposed. Anyway, we live in a democracy. We have tabled an amendment, but it did not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u79	Mr Anseeeuw wishes to ask another question. I propose that Mrs Lanjri conclude her speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u80	I would like to endorse Mrs Lanjri on two points. Firstly, we are talking about a period that has nothing to do with COOVID-19, in which only 20 days had to be worked. COVID-19 is used as an excuse for all sorts of things. Secondly, Mrs Willaert, I do not understand why you ignore the fact that someone who studied the piano can do anything other than play the piano in corona time. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u81	As different as the arts and culture sector is, we know that this is a private sector, no matter how much we understand that there is a need for tailor-made work, it remains difficult for CD&V to sell to the ordinary citizen, to the man in the street, that someone who graduate as a cook has to prove that he has worked 312 days while someone who graduate in the arts is considered after 20 days. Fortunately, an amendment has been tabled by the MR, and I think they saw for themselves that it was not quite right to limit it in time. We were in favour of that, too. That's good, because there was also discrimination between the artists themselves, who didn't come up with those 10 achievements in that year for corona, and those who didn't come up with those achievements until after or before. They say, "Why is it so and why is it not?" Luckily, this is temporary now. It will already cost at least 84 million euros. If it had not been temporary, the costs would of course increase in the coming years. The hearings have shown that the status of artists in the unemployment scheme is not good. It's not ideal and it doesn't fit the profile of artists. They are not unemployed. I have already said this in committee and I repeat it here. An artist who writes a book or composes a piece of music is not unemployed. The artist is working on his creation. It is therefore not logical to impose the same conditions on them as on an unemployed person. That's what we have to do. We need to differentiate more. For one, this is true, not for the other. For someone who does the lighting, this can fit. For a composer we cannot use the existing system of unemployment. The artists themselves also admit that we already have at least the artist's statute, which they do not even have in certain countries. We must row with the belts that we have and could not now shuffle such statute from our sleeve. This requires a great deal of work and a lot of discussions will be needed. We have also gone a long way with this bill, as I said. A number of our amendments were accepted and that is positive. Yesterday we put forward a purely technical proposal to respond to what the Court of Auditors had said, namely not to count on benefits, but to work days for access to the unemployment system. This is how the RVA works today: access to the unemployment system is now determined solely by working days. They didn't want to go into that, purely for the sake of symbolism. I have even heard some colleagues say that their party chairman has committed himself to his constituents, that it is therefore important not to abandon them and that it may not be technically correct, but it is retained. I'm thinking, "Who's kidding who?" What is going to be done if the RVA is faced with the difficulties of applying it, if one does not know to whom this proposal applies and what benefits should or should not be offset? One suddenly comes up with a completely different definition, whereas this should not have been necessary. If we had not agreed to an increase in the number of days up to now, but at least with the technical amendment that we have tabled and that there was both the question of the Court of Auditors and the RVA. However, we have not received this support. Ladies and gentlemen, we will abstain from voting on this bill. I want to be consistent in that. We abstained on the committee yesterday. I have also said that there are a lot of elements in it that we actually agree with, which we have supported and for which we have tabled amendments, some of which were accepted. I am pleased to have been able to contribute a bit to this bill, but there is one aspect to it where we do not feel well and should do so differently. That is why we will be consistent and abstain from this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u82	Colleagues, the coronavirus pandemic has highlighted all the problems that exist in our society, not just in the cultural sector. I am also thinking of the non-market sector. These problems have become more visible with the crisis, but they already existed before. The cultural and event sector is part of these problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u83	On 1 March, 250,000 cultural and event workers were arrested. There have been far too many people without income. It means getting up in the morning wondering what we're going to eat at noon. Go shopping and wonder how we're gonna feed his kids. Indeed, behind these workers, there are also families. This sector drew the alarm bell in various ways, in a difficult situation, in which one could not demonstrate, in order to comply with the sanitary instructions. I would like to greet them today if they still listen to us, and encourage them to continue to organize themselves to take charge of their fate. Indeed, it is only through their own mobilization that we in this Parliament will be able to advance their interests. They pulled the alarm bell in different ways. They did it via white cards, and they set up an impressive campaign on June 18 in 11 cities across the country. They positioned themselves immobilely to show their disarray, but above all with the following slogan: "When the whole society starts moving again, we remain still but standing". I want to encourage them to stand up in this society in which there are great social inequalities, and in which the share of culture is not yet won. When I talk about workers in the cultural sector, I really want to clarify who this is because I have the impression that some here are focusing solely on artists. They obviously have our full support. But they are sound engineers, makeup designers, costumers, camera assistants, lighting designers, assemblers, transporters, etc. All these people are part of the same sector and all have followed the debates. The PTB introduced a resolution in April. The PS introduced a bill, as did our colleagues Ecolo-Groen. Together, we have opted for convergence. For all who follow the debate here, it is clear that there are two visions of how our society should take over the culture and respect of its workers. Thanks to the mobilisation of workers and the convergence in this Parliament, we are quite happy to finally be able to move forward today, and we welcome it. As some of my colleagues have already explained, it has not been easy. There have been postponements, amendments, sometimes heated debates in committee to distort the original proposal. I could call it "manoeuvre" but I don't want to use the word, because a maneuver is for me something that is used superficially. In this case, there was a real substantive debate and we have seen it again today. Who is fundamentally opposed to defending the interests of cultural workers and the place of culture in our society? The last "manoeuvre" took place last week when this proposal was again referred to the Council of State and the Court of Auditors when we had to vote on it. Of course, no one here in principle rejects the possibility of going to the Council of State but, for us, it was really intended to curb this proposal. It should be remembered that, until this law is passed, families are wondering how to fill the fridge. That is, of course, what this is all about. The Council of State rejected the argument that it was discrimination, and the Court of Auditors even said that this bill was payable, if it is numbered. I therefore hope that today a large majority will support this proposal. Does that mean that the work is over? Of course not. We must continue to be vigilant in the implementation of this bill; it will not be that easy. There are structural problems in this sector that we will have to solve. We must continue to fight for the place of culture in our society. The status of artist is not one, in fact. There are other countries in Europe where there is no status but there are other places where the statutes are better. We have heard during the hearings the trade union organisations which have done a work on this issue. I hope that we can listen to them again in committee so that we can go further and improve the status. Contrary to what some say, cultural workers and artists are not lazy, they do not want to benefit from social security. They're people who don't live well. I will cite the example of Alice, a young musician from my neighbourhood, who lost her contracts for the months of March, April and May. She told me that she had the chance to hit temporary unemployment VOCID-19 but her two roommates, also musicians, have nothing because they could not get their status. She explained to me that to get it, she had to work hard 70 hours a week for a year and a half. She came out disgusted and ended up because it put her in a situation where for several months she had no even social contacts. She even left her health there. This is an example that shows us that the struggle is not over and that, after this bill, we will first continue to support the artists who will mobilize and then seek convergences to advance in the interests of the cultural workers in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have reached the end of a long and hard debate on a dossier in the Committee on Social Affairs. Friday 29 May was an important date for myself and for my party. After a lot of discussions had already taken place at the previous committee meetings, there was a hearing where we listened carefully to statements from the cultural sector. I have also had a lot of conversations with people directly affected by the corona crisis, which gave me a clear picture of the situation they are in up to today. There is no doubt that the cultural sector and the artists have suffered and are still suffering from the corona crisis. We have emphasized this on countless occasions in our statements. Social distancing runs counter to cultural activities, such as bringing people together for a concert, a theatre performance or television and film recordings. In the gradual phasing out of the lockdown measures, cultural events are the last to take place, with a lot of limitations. That is what we find ourselves experiencing at the local level. As we all know, there is a lot of uncertainty for the autumn. Artists work hard, contrary to what some of us want us to believe. Even in normal times they find it difficult to make ends meet. They run from performance to recording, work under different statutes at the same time and often combine all this with an extra merit, for example in the hospitality industry, in order to keep their heads above water and live on their passion, their passion that they transform into music, film, theatre, poetry and visual arts, which we then enjoy with all of us. This also means that many of them fall within the loopholes of the broad network of measures taken by the governments of this country to support the income of those who had to interrupt their activity as a result of the corona crisis. Artists and artists are among the most flexible workers in the labour market. We have to take that into account. For example, yesterday and the day before yesterday I had talks with people who clearly stressed that flexibility is extremely important. For the self-employed, there is the right of bridging. This benefit is also granted to self-employed persons in the secondary sector if they pay social contributions at least half the minimum threshold applicable to self-employed persons in the main occupation. For workers there are temporary unemployment and ordinary unemployment. Many artists are not eligible for any system. They don't earn enough on the side of the job. They do not have an ongoing contract of employment which can be suspended so that they can be placed in temporary unemployment. They have not worked enough days to receive ordinary unemployment benefits. There's a safety net working out. For that we had one big reservation: that it could not last forever. Hence the proposal to limit it in time, whatever has happened. It will therefore end on 31 December 2020. I agree with my group leader, who clearly states that it will stop. I want to be clear about that. It is therefore a temporary measure which does not discriminate. The Council of State is very clear about this. An emergency fund has also been set up in Flanders. This, too, has been fully supported by Stephanie D'Hose. As a result of this debate, I can also say that this benefit cannot be combined with an income from work. But with income from labour rights, which artists often receive on the basis of a work they have been doing for years. There are still examples of accumulation. For example, rent income and dividends from shares can be combined with unemployment benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate and the hearing, it was also very clear that there is a great need for the reform of this statute. A lot of people have said that here today. This was also given several times from the sector. Please, let us get to work on this so that we do not have to have these discussions anymore. We will support this proposal because the temporaryity was built in and because we believe that the artists deserve that support in these difficult and, above all, uncertain times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u85	Mrs. De Jonge, I have two questions. You have listed a number of measures such as temporary unemployment and the right to bridge. It is specific to all these aid measures that they are linked to the COOVID period in which the person concerned was unable or was able to achieve a significant reduction in his activity. COVID prevented him or her from working during that period. However, this proposal is of a different order because it states that at a time when no one was hindered by COVID, namely the year before the lockdown, artists had to work only 20 days while nothing prevented them from working anymore, certainly not COVID. I don't understand the logic of that. You will undoubtedly do so because you are going to approve this proposal. So I would like to know why the bar is lowered for a period when the artists were not hindered by COOVID at all. Mrs De Jonge, I have asked other colleagues the second question earlier, but no one has answered it yet. I'm gonna try one last time. Maybe you'll give me an answer. How are you going to explain to a young unemployed person who has worked for 200 days, then became unemployed and does not receive a cent of unemployment benefit that his artistic neighbor, who has only worked 20 days in a period when there has not been a COOVID, is entitled to unemployment benefit? How will you explain that to young unemployed people who have turned off their bones for 200 days and who are not entitled to anything? After all, his artistic neighbor who worked one tenth of that number of days in temporary non-suspecto, before the COOVID period, will receive a benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u86	Mrs. De Jonge, what happened last night? What happened last night, because yesterday on the committee, together with CD&V and Open Vld, you abstained? We said there were some good things in it. Yesterday it was also known that it was temporary, but there were a lot of points that you did not agree with and then you abstained on the whole of the proposal. Something must have happened last night, because yesterday's abstention has suddenly become a yes. You may, but I'm called a chef. Explain that to me. I just want to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u87	Mr Anseeeuw's question and your first question about the number of days are a bit similar. I know that there have been a lot of discussions about this. I must say that the original proposal was far too low for us. You know that. We then supported the MR proposal. Originally, there were five artistic achievements and ten working days, but this was changed with an amendment from the MR to ten artistic achievements and twenty working days. Mrs Lanjri, Mr Anseuw, I have indeed talked to the artists' world over the last few days. I have heard an artist from the musical world who, in a top year, has performed only 80 days of work. All preparatory hours preceding that can not be included. Frankly, we supported the MR amendment because we felt that the number of working days was too low and that we could agree with the 20 working days. We did make a joint proposal yesterday, but you also knew from me that we wanted to put forward an even lower proposal. I want to be honest about that. Those aren't cheeks. I based myself on testimonies. Those people need to fight hugely now, and I can tell you that artists are not proud of having to call on unemployment benefits. They even say that they do not like to benefit from the social provisions applicable to the days in advance. On the basis of a number of testimonies and after a detailed discussion in the group, we can agree to the text on the number of days of the MR. We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u88	Mrs De Jonge, yesterday you voted for your sister and today you are voting on the same proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u89	Mrs Lanjri, you knew how I felt about the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u90	Mr Anseuw, you have already asked the same question five times. You take them to everyone. However, let Mrs De Jonge answer first, before you are ready with the finger.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u91	Mr Anseuw, would you like to repeat your first question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u92	Mrs. De Jonge, I'd like to do that. My first question was the following. What is the logic behind the rule now before us for approval, in particular that an artist must have worked only 20 instead of 312 days at a time when there was no COOVID-19, while all other aid measures are linked to the COOVID-19 period, in which people could not work? That makes no sense to us at all. That makes sense to you, otherwise you would not approve the proposal. That was my first question. My second question is this. How do you explain to a young unemployed person who has worked 200 days and then becomes unemployed that he is not entitled to unemployment benefit, while his artistic neighbor, who has worked 312 days instead of 200 days, is entitled to the full pot? How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u93	Mr Anseuw, you have already asked all the speakers that question. Mrs. De Jonge will now reply and we will proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u94	Mr Anseuw, you say that you have talked a lot to artists, but I do not think so. However, I myself have done so in the last few days, and I have changed my point of view. Again, one cannot compare one thing to another. After all, artists already perform work performances in advance, for which they do not receive or are paid euros. (Protests from Mr Anseuw)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u95	I propose that Mrs De Jonge conclude with that. I think all opinions have been discussed, although something convinces me that Mr Anseeeuw's question of how to explain the measure will be put to the next speaker in a moment. Mrs. Vanrobaeys, you can only be prepared. Mr Anseuw, I would tell you to turn off that record.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear visitors to the public gallery, we can finally adopt today a legislative proposal that provides for income compensation for those most affected. The cultural sector was the first to be affected, as concerts were cancelled and appointments cancelled in February. The artists had to stay in their quarters since then and that happened without any income compensation, at least for the most precarious groups. Because of all the delays in the Chamber, I honestly believe that for some people, for example artists with precarious contracts or technicians, the canvas has already fallen definitively. Some have disinfected shopping carts at a grocery store to cover the period and there is nothing wrong with that, but not everyone has been given such opportunities. Others have just given up because they can't buy food anymore, can't pay their rent anymore, and they're really sick of it. In that way, a great deal of talent may be lost. How come they couldn't count on income compensation? The sector is characterised by hyperflexibleness. Artists and artists are asked to work on the basis of day contracts that are sometimes signed or agreed at the last minute. One is very free and must always accept all kinds of changes. Some clients refused dimonas, while the temporary unemployment scheme was relaxed, or paid no holiday allowance. As a result, this solution was not sufficient for those working in the artists' sector. Therefore, the very flexible artists have to supplement their income with what they earn with side jobs, the small compensation scheme and extra jobs in the catering industry. He does a lot of unpaid work, because only the day of a concert or an exhibition is paid and of course not the preparation. Imagine that the carpenter who builds your kitchen would only be paid for the installation of it and all the carpentry in advance I do not even talk about the layout of the offer - free of charge. However, these are common practices in the cultural sector. I regret that. It is very poignant that people in the cultural sector are being asked for a great deal of commitment and flexibility, while in times of crisis, when they need support, they are being dropped like a brick and have them waiting four months or more for an income. Just because of hyperflexibleness, they fall through the loopholes of the net, just as we had only been tighter in these times so far for self-employed and employees. So now we are doing the same for the cultural sector. This legislative proposal is necessary. The Council of State also recognises that it does not entail discrimination. The situation in the cultural sector is so special that it justifies special measures. The bill gives artists and technicians easy access to unemployment benefits. This will temporarily allow them to accumulate unemployment benefit and copyright compensation. They enjoy the temporary maintenance of their status. Indeed, since 1 July there have been more cultural activities and some of them are back to work. In my opinion, a lot of people in the cultural sector are satisfied that they can be creative again and do not have to wait for assignments all the time. There is the whole impact of the months lockdown and of the lost summer season. There is also the mandatory limitation of the capacity of concert halls or of the number of spectators of performances, which can last for a very long time. We do not know how long the corona crisis will last. Maybe there will be another flare-up and the doors will have to close completely again, although I hope not. All that justifies the bill. The industry just requested a neutral year until March 2021 due to its limited capacity. We need longer preparation time, we need not yet be profitable, we still need to deal with limited capacity. It appears, however, that it was part of the political deal that was concluded yesterday to approve the measure, that it is temporary. I have no problem with the temporary character............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Since the draft law is a measure in favour of the cultural sector for the first time after four months, we agree to the temporary period until 31 December and we will approve the text. In general, apart from the measure, I would once again point out that the corona crisis makes inequalities in society even more acute. The reason that all those people in the cultural sector currently have to survive, have difficulty getting their fridge filled and can pay their rent because they have no income replacement is not just corona-related. This has to do with savings in cultural houses, reduction and removal of project grants. Everything has to be cheaper. Anything with less. Who pays the price for that? It is a bit like in another discussion we have had here. Just as Swissport employees pay the price for extreme competition and increasingly falling prices, artists and technicians pay the price for ever lower subsidies. They are getting lower and lower remuneration for their work and are increasingly in a precarious status. That is why the following is so important, and that is why we commit ourselves to it. I hope that we will have that debate by 31 December. We are discussing temporaryity here and we are asking whether it really will be done after 31 December. We're in control of that ourselves. Here in Parliament we must discuss a good artist's statute, and preferably as soon as possible. For me, that could be completed by 31 December. Then there will be no further discussion on extension until March. Then they'll be caught as they should be. One thing is clear to me. In any case, when we talk about a better artist's statute, this should not lead to less protection. A better artist's statute does not include social high-tech to avoid further solidarity. On the contrary, our objective must be greater solidarity. Our goal must be to appreciate all the work that artists do so that their work, which gives us all beautiful moments, is appreciated and rewarded, as it should be. It must also be linked to strong social protection, not to such a devious social protection that, at the time they get an accident or become ill or if there is something like a corona crisis, drops them like a brick. That work is for the future. Today I would like to call on you to approve this bill so that both artists and technicians can count on an income. It is on average about 900 euros to 1,000 euros for a single person. This means that next month one cannot go on vacation directly to a sunny place. For me, it is important that they can now count on us so that in the future we can count on them to install the micros at your conference, to build the stage on a local fair, to which we so desire and that people from our community bring together and where many here are mayor or ships. You know how important this is. Also for the exciting book during the holiday. For the good film during the lockdown, because without cameramen there is no more filming. For that music full of memories. The cultural sector must be saved for all the valuable moments we experience together, whether before, during or after corona, because a society without culture is a dead society. Our current society is just the result of creativity and innovation. Just that stimulates culture. Culture stimulates. Culture makes us think. Culture sometimes makes us look back, but it makes us look forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all welcome and thank all the artists who are in the gallery today. They represent other artists we have met outside and unfortunately have not been able to sit in the gallery. I would also like to thank – once it is not customary – the political partners behind the bill, namely Ms.Dedonder, Ms.Song, Ms.Willaert (who co-signed the bill), as well as all those who worked on the drafting of the bill. I would particularly like to thank the committee chair, Marie-Colline Leroy, for the intelligence and firmness with which she held these debates, which were really not easy. I would also like to thank all those who have been fighting for months so that measures can be taken, but also their predecessors who, in the last legislature – I am thinking in particular of the PS, Ecolo, DéFI or cdH – had asked for the same measures but had not obtained the majority. One of the positive consequences of this crisis is that this issue has finally been brought to light. During a show, we remember the beginning and the end. Personally, I would like to remember the beginning, the tabling of the proposals and the hopes they have given rise to. I would also like to remember the end, in other words the positive vote which I hope will be taken tonight. Indeed, I do not think it is necessary to go back to the figures we have all already mentioned concerning the number of workers, the number of people targeted and what the sector represents. Behind these figures are men and women who are sometimes in deplorable conditions, without income for several months. It is also an entire part of our civilization that is put in brackets, under bells, unable to radiate art and culture. More than ever in the dark times that we live, it is essential that culture erases the retreat on oneself, selfishness, ignorance or judgment of the one who is different. To do this, culture needs consideration and respect. This requires emergency measures but also structural and long-term measures. Culture also needs a sacred union that transcends political divisions and that, at all levels of power, is working to put in place cross-cutting measures for the sector as a whole. It is not a question of saying "I will defend this at the federal level and tomorrow, I will defend the opposite or about another level of authority that also has the competence in cultural matters". I am also thinking of all our communes, the provinces, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Flemish Region. All levels of power can be used for emergency measures but also for longer-term reflection. The bill before us is indeed part of the emergency measures. It puts an end to the rule that in the event of cumulation between unemployment benefit and income from copyright, the amounts of benefits are reduced. It creates a suspension of reference periods for obtaining or maintaining artist status; for artists and technicians, it creates a suspension, a white period. With regard to the notion of suitable employment, it simplifies the status of artist. These measures shall be taken until 31 December. While we wholeheartedly support the principles set out in this bill, we regret, however, that we have not been able to complete the exercise until the end of the requests made on 29 May at the hearings. The artists asked us for a white year, that is until March 2021. Moreover, with Ecolo and DéFI, we had tabled an amendment to that effect. We chose to withdraw it, because we preferred the political agreement which seemed to have to run until 31 December. We did not want to jeopardize what had been acquired. Of course, we continue to believe that these are emergency measures up to that date. As Mrs Vanrobaeys has rightly said, I hope that we will be able to achieve something more structural before 31 December in order to avoid yet having to think about emergency measures which, for us, should in any case be extended until March 2021 - as France has, for example, decided. This is a crucial moment, because it is, I hope, putting in place essential measures. For two hours, I heard a lot of people trying to say that there was a break in equality. I agree with those who think otherwise, because the arts sector is different. Not only is he one of the ones who has suffered most from crisis and confinement, but he is - in his organization and its very peculiarities - sufficiently specific to be treated differently. That is what the bills wanted to highlight. As far as long-term structural measures are concerned, it is absolutely necessary to leave this relationship of unemployment to speak of a real status as an artist: that of an arts worker. There's a lot of work on the board, and we have to blow on the embers so that the fire stays on. With copyright and reproduction rights, whether it concerns communities, individuals or businesses, artists must receive fair remuneration. So we will have to look quickly at these rights, in addition to that of the artist. The provisions that we will be voting on earlier are in the right direction. And we still thank all those who, beyond the political divides, have responded favourably to the desperate appeal of the artists. They urge us to take a further step, given the urgency that the situation imposes. Indeed, when culture is extinguished, it is the whole society that walks in the shadows! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u98	Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen, the artists who are with us from the stands or behind your screen, it is with a sense of relief but mixed that I address you on this bill. I would of course like to thank our colleagues in the PS for initiating this bill, but also all the parties that have worked in recent weeks by working on it or through their own texts - and so, indeed, our benevolent and rigorous committee chair. It was a rich and instructive work, thanks in particular to the sector's hearings which were organised and which some have described as historical, I think rightly. Rarely, I think, and perhaps never for a long time, as we saw again tonight, our assembly had not looked so carefully at the fate of the artists. For it is a federal jurisdiction only by default; and it is perhaps, I believe, a large part of the problem. As with many sectors, this health crisis is an indication of existing situations and therefore an opportunity. Now, a simple virus can make it possible to move forward on a file that is lancinating and that, beyond the urgency, is never really a priority. And in a sense, that's what's extraordinary. How is it that we can have such a rich exchange - of course contradictory, but rich - on the status of artist now, with the hearings we held on May 29, with a fundamental reflection on the status, here and now, because of a pandemic? Well! Because this pandemic hit so hard that it revealed, as a product of contrast, the stakes that were already present but never usually take first place. VOCID-19 is not a pretext. It's an opportunity and a revelation. We must welcome the step which I hope will be taken this evening and which we will of course support. Regrettably, however. Like others, I regret that we did not fully hear the sector's request to Immunize Status until March 2021. I regret that this proposal is limited to a blank period until 31 December. I regret that in the name of a political compromise necessary to pass this law, it was necessary to act as if the artistic season could, at best, restart in less than three months, which is simply unrealistic. In the same way, I regret that we are not able, tonight, to put an end to the penalty of cumulation of status with copyright forever and not simply until the end of the year. From this point of view, this bill is unfortunately a missed opportunity - not because of the authors' fault, of course, but because of the fault of the political context that does not lend itself to it. Unfortunately, it does not lend itself to putting an end to what, for me and my group, always appears to be discrimination. Colleagues, during our work, we have heard from many players in the sector, who have come to shed light on both the general landscape and their individual situation. We have seen the diversity of situations, the distress, the lack of prospects. The testimony we have received commits us to the future and draws a clear reality. The status of artist deserves better, really better than an unemployment form. The people we auditioned told us all: they are workers, entrepreneurs. And opposite, there is no status, there is only an imbroglio of rules that are called "artist status". It is therefore not just a question of means, but a question of recognition. We see the journey that remains to be traveled. It was very striking, a few weeks ago, to hear in this Chamber, when the text was referred to the Council of State, but also tonight, part of the occupants of the benches speak of unemployed people and the other part talk to us about artists. Artist status should not be an unemployed status. That's the whole problem. It should be a creator's status. It must not be accessible to the first comer, of course, or without control, but those who benefit from it must also not be monitored as job seekers are monitored. Yes, it is time to work on a real intermittent status, which goes through something other than unemployment forms. Evidence of benefits will be required to enter and maintain this status. But this status must be more valued, and be something other than a daily guerrilla with the administration responsible for monitoring job seekers. It is time to have a status whose control would be ensured by people who know the reality of artist life and not by an agent who, sometimes, considers you first as a potential fraudster. If you want to dream a little, ladies and gentlemen, why not imagine a single contact person in the federal government? A Minister of Culture who is competent both for this status and for cultural institutions Indeed, the problem of culture in the federal government is not its absence, it is its secondisation, its setting in the background. This is never the primary competence of people. It is an annex to the Minister of Labour on the aspects of social security and the right to unemployment. It is an annex of the Minister who receives cultural institutions in the midst of other things. This is never a first choice and it explains everything. It is time for the federal government to take its place in the cultural management of this country, instead of erasing itself, with the effects of sleep resulting from it, which are so cruelly highlighted by the unprecedented health crisis that we are experiencing. DEFI will do everything to ensure that the door that just opened does not close. Of course, we will support this text. But we all think we can do better. We are determined to move forward in the coming weeks, with all those who wish to do so, on a real overhaul of the status of artist. Philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche once wrote: "The art is given to us to prevent us from dying of the truth." That is what culture is for, ladies and gentlemen. It is an opportunity to stir, transgress, open, and peacefully challenge the order of things. Supporting artists is supporting what makes our democracy breathe a little better. Yes, all right, it certainly has a cost but it doesn't have a price!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u99	Mr President, first of all I would like to address the artists who are here today and all the artists and technicians in the artistic sector, who I know are following the debate and who are eagerly waiting for the vote later this evening, and I am so glad that we are finally standing here. You are indispensable to our society. We have realised this more than ever in the past few months. We missed you, too. You offer us creativity, scattering, game, party, perspective, consolation and connectedness. You challenge us to think about ourselves, about each other and about our society. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the artistic landscape in Belgium is not only strong in its enormous creativity, but also in its diversity, players, practices, forms of art and organisational models. It is also internationally known for this. We must nurture the sector. The cultural sector is, in fact, the most affected sector in the crisis, even more affected than the catering industry. It is also the sector that can be the last to start up again, and then only slowly. It is a sector that wants nothing more than to restart with full force, but that is still limited. As a result, many people who go back to work can do that because of the current and justified health measures, even in a way where they can break even. Reports from the Economic Risk Management Group show that after the crisis, one in five players will go bankrupt and that the economic and financial losses of the sector will reach 93%. One or five, 93%, that's disastrous. In Flanders alone, the cultural sector employs tens of thousands of people. It is now four months after the lockdown, ladies and gentlemen, and we see that too many people working in the cultural sector have so far been unable to count on any support measures. Four months without support. Four months with no or hardly any income. It's about people who have to be rationed with their whole family. Literally. It's about people who have to sell beloved musical instruments to survive. Humanly demeaning. These are people who have to spend one euro a day on food and drink and who have to live part of the food banks, such as a circus performer and festival coordinator with numerous cancelled contracts. These are people who have no income; they have no unemployment benefit, no artist's statute, no right to OCMW support, such as the violinist with several cancelled assignments. Those are flesh and blood people, colleagues. They are people who have received EUR zero so far, but who would otherwise have been working full-time. Those people feel belittled, ignored and forgotten. The way in which this has happened has everything to do with the particularity of the sector. After all, despite the fact that we like to enjoy a good book, an exciting film, a concert, a theatre piece, despite the fact that the sector has a high added value, with which we like to work abroad because we are proud of it, the many workers in that sector have a very precarious social status. Over the past few months it rained testimonies from artists, sound technicians, dancers and musicians, who suddenly had absolutely nothing to fall back on. Why? That is because they often cannot be put in one box in terms of status and contract. Just because of the multitude of types of employment, the crisis makes it clear that they often do not have enough cover in one or the other box to be covered by the measures already taken. They're slipping through the meshes of the net. A singer put it very strikingly. She said: I understand that the government very much wants clear boxes for support measures, but musicians like me are four or five boxes together. Ladies and gentlemen, we finally recognise this reality in the field by means of this proposal. In these exceptional times, we are taking a temporary measure for an exceptionally complex sector. The Council of State has also given us the green light for this, because the aid is right and necessary. Of course, we would have preferred it much sooner. We also need to see the support in the right perspective, because according to the Court of Auditors, this is about a maximum cost of 80 million. The measures already taken cost 6.4 billion, including 3.6 billion for temporary unemployment and over 1 billion for the self-employed. We must, of course, think carefully about any expenditure - we are doing so here - but we can no longer abandon the cultural sector. After all, many people have been living there for four months without support and they deserve better, for all the wealth they give us. All the testimonies show that in normal times they are already struggling to make money with their passion and talent. Many artists, artists and technicians have to fight to make ends meet every day anyway. What they earn is often invested in new projects, materials or training. Much reserve is therefore often not available for crises such as those we are experiencing today. Ladies and gentlemen, let us please avoid the health crisis becoming a social crisis. The bill finally closes the loopholes for those people. Although the proposal is crucial for many people in this crisis, it is only a tissue for bleeding. If we really think it right with the sector, if we continue to regard it as an international sign for our country, then more is needed. We show our appreciation and respect for those who work in the sector only with a full artist's statute, away from unemployment. That statute must guarantee a stable professional life in dignified social conditions. Green and Ecolo continue to advocate better working conditions and more stable remuneration at all levels. We don't abandon our artists. The colleague of the N-VA will undoubtedly cook with Flemish creativity again on 11 July, but with nice talk one does not fill a refrigerator. We know that and the artists know that too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u100	Mrs Willaert, without mentioning his name, you have endorsed Mr Anseuw. Mr Anseuw, without mentioning your name, Mrs Willaert has endorsed you. Would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u101	Mrs. Willaert, you don't have to panic. I will not ask the question I have already asked five other speakers in vain. Nor do I assume that you will give the answer to that question. I do have other questions. Firstly, at the beginning of your speech, you made a pretty bold statement, on which I would like to ask you a few questions. You said that the cultural sector was the most affected, even more so than, for example, the catering sector. I would have liked to know from you how and on the basis of what data you made this comparison with other sectors, such as the catering sector and possibly more sectors. If you claim such a thing, you have a reason, which will be objectivable. Secondly, as I pointed out earlier in the speeches by other Members, those concerned had to work only 20 days in the year preceding the COOVID-19 period. The logic of that escapes me. I will not ask you what the logic behind that is. I'll ask you what these artists have lived the other days of the year. You will probably answer that they have carried out a lot of other activities, that they have sought other jobs and so on. This, of course, undermines the need for full and full unemployment benefits for people who can still earn money in different places. This was also my plea, namely that artists can do a little more than just produce art. Thirdly, I would also like to say the following. You have stated that, according to the Court of Auditors' calculation, the measure costs up to EUR 84 million. You are ignoring the cost for 2021. You will also tell me that the measure will not be extended in 2021. However, we will have to wait and see if that happens. In your calculation of cost, however, you ignore footnote No. 11 on page 9 of the opinion of the Court of Auditors. After all, it simulates, for example, one technician per five artists. That would mean a further EUR 14 million by 2020. So you can count yourself rich and say that we are talking about 'but' EUR 84 million, but that is obviously not true. I have asked you two questions: I am very curious about the clear answer that you will undoubtedly give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u102	Mr President, I have the impression that Mr Anseeeuw has drawn up a list of questions in preparation for the debate, from which he sometimes asks questions as he sees fit. Mr Anseuw, I was wondering if anyone would take me by saying that the cultural sector is the most affected sector. I don't know if your question is so particularly interesting. The only reason why I made that statement is because that sector is the only one that still cannot fully start. I therefore think that your question is reasonable in relation to the text before us. That is why I do not think we need to debate now whether or not the artistic sector has been seriously affected and whether one sector may have been more seriously affected than the other. That question is simply not interesting. Mr Anseuw, I come to your second question. I think you really don't want to understand. It's about people who perform artistic tasks and sometimes do additional jobs. Because of the fact that they do different things, they have often not built up enough in one box or in the other box to be overcome at this time. All the people I have mentioned, people of flesh and blood, have so far received no euro. Are they all liars?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u103	In other sectors where they work (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u104	Mr Anseuw, you cannot claim that the jobs were pre-picked during the corona period. Or did we limit the degressivity of benefits, because everyone could easily find a job? You're assuming an artist doesn't work, Mr. Anseuw. You don't understand that a pianist in the corona era...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u105	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u106	Mr. Anseuw, my micro is on, not yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u107	I'm gonna end the discussion. Mr Anseuw, you do not have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u108	Mr Anseuw, if you ask a question, you must also listen to the answer. Oh, for crying out loud. It's not a beautiful spectacle, you know. Here in the hemisphere we are not alone, we are speaking for all the citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u109	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u110	Mr Anseuw, I have just answered you, but you are not listening. Nor have you listened to the people of the artistic sector. I'll leave it at that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u111	There are better ways to end a debate. I can tell you that anyway. If that's how it's supposed to be done... Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u112	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1154/19) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1154/19) The title has been amended by the committee in the proposal for a law improving the situation of workers in the cultural sector". The title was changed by the Committee to "the proposal for a law to improve the situation of workers in the cultural sector." The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We are going back to the first item on the agenda that was suspended for work in the Mobility Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u114	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Wouter Raskin, Yngvild Ingels, Frieda Gijbels, Tomas Roggeman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I think the rapporteur was Mr Vandenbroucke for the first part and Mrs Verhaert for the second part. Do you have an appointment with Mrs Verhaert, Mr Vandenbroucke?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u116	I refer to the written report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u117	Does everyone agree that we should begin the general discussion on this basis? [[Assent]] I have entered Mr Raskin and Mr Van den Bergh on my list, but neither of them are present. Mr Vandenbroucke, you may take the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u118	Mr President, I should like to take the floor after Mr Raskin. I would like to give the lead initiator the honour to outline the guidelines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u119	Normally colleagues are happy when they can move into the ranking. These are weird times, but Mr. Raskin is on his way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not an ideal solution to the problem of priority vehicles using the lane of breakdown. We have already come to that conclusion in the debate on Mr Vandenbroucke's bill on the rescue strip which was voted in the Chamber a few weeks ago. The proposal before us today creates a legal basis for using that rescue strip in the performance of priority tasks. The text initially submitted was submitted as usual for advice to the regions. In the womb of our committee, a very interesting hearing was organized with many experts. What is before us today is an amended text which takes very explicit account of the opinions of the various regions and which also clearly bears in mind the spirit of the proposal for a revision of the road code. This proposal could not, due to circumstances, land in the previous legislature. Around the whole, which therefore takes account of various factors, the committee formed a majority which gave the green light to this proposal. By approving this later, priority vehicles engaged in an urgent task will be exempted in order to comply with the provisions of the road code, with the exception of a limited list of provisions which they must respect at all times. In addition, the use of the blue flashing lights in non-urgent assignments is reinforced in this proposal. For example, this is allowed only when the nature of the contract so requires. The proposal also includes an adaptation for priority vehicles using their sound equipment and de facto carrying out an urgent task of driving through the red light. Today the red light can only be passed after effectively stopping first. If we adopt this proposal later, it will no longer be compulsory to stop before moving slowly again, but the light may be passed by at moderate speed. This, of course, ladies and gentlemen, provided that no other road users are put at risk. In general terms, therefore, the proposal before us responds to the opinions of the regions and takes into account the spirit of the proposal for a new road code already launched in previous legislative years. In order to optimise it, we adopted a number of amendments in committee this afternoon, which ensure that the exception to which this law applies is slightly extended. The categories of priority drivers that are not covered by this text will in no way be curtailed by traffic tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your support for this proposal and for the constructive debate in committee over the last few months and this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u121	Mr President, I will be very brief, because Mr Raskin has explained very clearly what is contained in the amended legislative proposal. We have launched a two-stage missile with the Mobility Committee around the situation of emergency services on and around the road. We have already approved the mandatory creation of a rescue strip for traffic jams. Today, we are voting on who is allowed to drive on it and under what conditions, and we are resolving a number of other bottlenecks that make a big difference to the work that the emergency services are doing and that is absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that we have sought all the advice of the regions in this respect. We have held a very interesting hearing and have had a lot of bilateral contacts with those involved in the field. Those who have tried to block any attempt to change the road code in the Committee on Mobility with the argument that a general revision of the road code is actually needed, while they themselves have failed to do so for five years, hopefully stop their efforts. This two-stage missile has proved that good cooperation will enable us to make good legislation, even in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u122	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u123	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (589/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (589/8) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u124	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u125	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Our rapporteur is Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill which has had a very busy life and which, after a number of debates, has seen amendments being voted on, including amendments providing for conditionality for the granting of aid to certain companies with, in particular, the exemption from professional prepayment. The text which had been the subject of a vote on the package was therefore referred back to the committee, following the tabling of new amendments which had a fairly substantial content since they were intended to reverse the conditionalities which had been foreseen. Some colleagues and, in particular, Mr Joris Vandenbroucke, have tabled other amendments aimed, in particular, at ensuring genuine tax transparency and lifting bank secrecy. These new texts were discussed. Two amendments were adopted to remove the cross-compliances with the professional discount exemption. On the other hand, the amendment aimed at greater tax transparency was rejected. Following a nominative vote on the whole, the text returns to plenary for discussion and vote. That, Mr. Chairman, is my oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u127	Mr President, we have a major crisis that calls for a crisis approach, which by definition means that we are taking crisis measures. These are temporary measures to address problems on the ground, temporary, focused measures that can be rapidly introduced. We have already approved a series of packages of measures in Parliament. This is the third package in line, but it is once again a package of immensely important measures that will make a difference for many companies and people. The measures will take four cases. Firstly, they make our companies stronger because they make them more capital-intensive in times of crisis. They will have to pay a number of taxes later, allowing them to keep capital in the company and use it for current business operations. Secondly, there will be measures to kick-start the economy. In particular, there are measures that will support the catering sector. What I personally am particularly pleased about is that we have taken measures on VAT, but we also ensure that people are encouraged to consume in catering. I am referring, for example, to the consumer cheque and the rules on reception costs. Thirdly, what is also positive in this package is that we are considering how we can prepare for growth again. We have often talked in committee about companies, often small companies, which still want to invest in their business. Here is a measure on the table about an investment deduction. We did so at the time with the previous Swedish Government, and it is good that we are now continuing to work on that basis, so that companies that can do so can also be more focused on the future. Finally, there is also a bit of warmth in the package with some measures on tax relief on gifts and babysitting. They are small budgetary measures, but they can be very beautiful for individual people. It is an important package that we will be delighted to support today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks our country and other countries have experienced the most serious crises in many years and we had to mobilize to try to find answers to the dramatic health and economic situations we have experienced. The necessary measures have been adopted by this Parliament by very large majorities, with the support of the opposition, and sometimes at its initiative. I am thinking of bridge law, I am thinking of temporary unemployment corona, I am thinking of postponements of payments in the areas of taxation, VAT, corporate taxes. The text under consideration has been the subject of a fairly broad agreement and concerns tax matters, in particular the exemption, under certain conditions, of payment of professional prepayments for companies which have been heavily hit by the crisis. I am thinking in particular of the horeca sector. There are also enhanced tax deductibility measures for investments, which are sometimes necessary and linked to the health crisis we have experienced. Another measure to which ecologists hold a great deal is the increase in deductibility for concessions granted to associations, measures that we have requested and obtained. The non-market sector is particularly important. There are still other measures for which we were less enthusiastic but to which we agreed. In politics, agreements are important and must be honoured. A word is a word. This is a complement to the other measures already taken. I could have mentioned, after a long and exciting debate, the measures that will be adopted earlier in terms of support for the cultural sector and for artists. These measures have a cost, but this cost is essential today. The state must be there and must accept a deficit fiscal year to help the sectors most affected. I believe that these investments must also be directed in the best possible way, conditioned when they can be, but, above all, made quickly in the light of the concerns and difficulties of the companies and individuals concerned. At this stage, we remain committed to urgent measures, which must be followed by genuine redeployment measures supported by a strong parliamentary majority. The vision we will adopt will have to take into account other issues facing us, such as environmental and energy issues, but this is another story to write. We are, of course, prepared to start drafting it with all parties wishing to participate in it, but in the meantime we will support the text as proposed and amended this afternoon in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am kicking in an open door when I say that there are many economic consequences for businesses, individuals and families. Typical of the crisis we are experiencing is that there is a simultaneous shock of supply and demand. Fortunately, many measures have already been taken, such as temporary unemployment, the right of bridging, but also the tax provisions in the previous two corona laws. The impact of these measures could be questioned. A few weeks ago we received an interesting overview from Professor Decoster, who said that private consumption decreased by 8.8 %. The income of the people after the support measures is at 1,9%. This proves that the measures have helped. This is also the case with entrepreneurs in the field. They say that there has been rapid and good action in this area, but the measures need to be supplemented by a number of things. That's exactly what this third corona law does. This law focuses on the companies as the engine of our economic system with a number of measures such as the exemption from the transfer of the company tax, the increased investment deduction as well as the tax reduction for the acquisition of shares of certain companies. These are all incentives that can make a difference on the ground. In addition to the companies, the non-profit institutions and the charities are also addressed by increasing the deduction of gifts, so that people who want to support charities and organisations, people who give the best of themselves to serve our social fabric, have more effect. Families and employees are also covered by this third Corona Act, with an extension of the childcare measure and the consumer cheque measure. This needs to be further developed. We discussed this in committee. The Minister explained that. It is important that it is quickly clarified in which sectors this can be applied and what its modalities are. It is certainly an idea that lives with people who will get it, but also with governments and companies who want to give the check. I think that this will be clarified quite quickly. To sum up, we will naturally support this third package of fiscal measures, because we are convinced that they will all contribute to strengthening our businesses, the non-profit sector, families and employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u130	Mr. Chair, as his name suggests, this bill includes various tax measures. Its budgetary cost is particularly heavy because, if we add up the impact of the various measures it contains, we arrive at a total of 952 million euros, i.e. almost 1 billion euros. Of course, the crisis of coronavirus is exceptional and requires exceptional measures but neither can we do anything, any way for anyone. Targeted and appropriate measures are needed for those who really need them. I am thinking of the self-employed, the SMEs, the employees who are a little forgotten about this project. This project includes appropriate measures, but others are unfortunately doubtful. The first measure which is also the most costly is the exemption from the payment of professional prepayment, which has been the subject of controversy and referral back to committee today, on which I am not going to go back. Don't worry! This exemption from payment of the professional discount costs 460 million euros out of a total of 952 million euros. Almost half of the total budget for this project is therefore absorbed by this measure. Moreover, the noises of the corridor evoke a strange lobbying that would have led to the choice of such a measure with the intervention of a large law firm, etc. In short, these are corridor noises on which we are not going to linger. It should be remembered, however, that at the basic level, the very measure of the dispensation of payment of the occupational prepayment that already exists in our tax legislation, is somewhere the appropriation of the worker's tax by the employer. An employer collects at source the occupational allowance from the wages of its workers to pay it to the tax authorities, except that in the event of an exemption from the payment of the occupational allowance, the employer retains a portion for him. This part can also be very important and can sometimes even concern the totality of the professional discount if different exemption measures are added. The bill that we are discussing here further expands the percentage of this exemption without any limitation as to the beneficiaries that are affected. It's not just for SMEs. Multinationals can benefit from it. If I take an example from Mr. Minister's explanatory memorandum and apply it to a multinational drug company, then the situation is as follows. This multinational already accounts for 80 per cent of the occupational allowance it collects from its research staff and, in the future, it will be able to charge no longer 80 per cent but 85 per cent of that tax, which is the worker's tax. It should be noted, however, that such multinationals are already benefiting from upstream exemptions. Downstream, when they pay corporate tax on their profits, they will still benefit from other forms of exemptions. I am thinking, for example, of GSK, the largest multinational pharmaceutical company in Belgium, which paid 0.1% corporate tax in the last year. In committee, when I pointed out that multinationals could benefit from this measure as well as SMEs, the minister replied that there was a limit and that companies could not punctuate more than EUR 20 million. Multinationals can benefit from this, but only for 20 million euros. I note, however, that in the spirit of the minister, for a multinational, a tax gift of 20 million euros, it is so insignificant that it does not even deserve to be mentioned. Again in relation to this measure, Minister De Croo never misses an opportunity to point out that he has or would have – I think the conditional is more appropriate – excluded from the benefit of this measure companies that resort to tax havens. But even in the tax haven, the devil sometimes hides in detail. First, the list of tax havens is like a huge passory because many of the most formidable tax havens for public finances and from which multinationals benefit are missing from this list. Second, the exclusion applies only to a company that has a subsidiary in a tax haven. If the company that benefits from this measure is itself owned by a company that is located in a tax haven, there is no problem, it can benefit from the deduction. If they are sister companies, they can benefit from the deduction when we know that in a multinational group, one moves very easily from one company to another. This story is a bit of a bluff. At the outset, however, the minister had promised that the case of a parent company in a tax haven would be excluded from the benefit of the measure. But in committee, he said, "Yes, it is true, I said that but I changed my mind." Listen to the reason, it's worth it! "It is too complicated to know who is the shareholder of a company and this can change. So, here we are, we've changed our minds." If we understand correctly, the Minister of Finance who is responsible for combating tax fraud claims that it is too complicated to know who is the shareholder of a company in Belgium. I find this really worrying as a resigned position. There are other measures that I will quickly quote. Don't worry, it's late. Other measures that we can find somewhat questionable, however. For example, exemption from tax from a consumer cheque. It is a cheque that can only be obtained by workers whose employer has decided to grant it. This is a clear discrimination between workers. The power of this discrimination is available to employers. For example, the deductibility of reception fees, which increases from 50 per cent to 100 per cent. As long as I supported the Horeca, I would have opted for an incentive that targeted the entire population so that everyone could go to the restaurant. No, here, you prefer to target what I would call "professional consumers" of restaurants, who already go there very often, because it is deductible, and who will go even more often. I'm even worried about their health. By going so much to the restaurant, it could be a problem. Another example is the tax reduction for the acquisition of SME shares. The tax advantage therefore goes not to SMEs, but to investors who can buy shares, while the real problem, in fact, is that banks are reluctant to grant loans to SMEs. But we know that the minister does not dare to rush the banks, so this way of dealing with it is found. I believe that the minister does not even believe it himself, since this measure represents only 0.3% of the total budget devoted to this bill. The last example is the VAT advantage for companies making computers available to schools. Now, I think that politically, we are touching the bottom. Our teaching is totally underfunded; and here we truly pour into charity by making the presence of computers in schools dependent on companies. The minister believes it so much that he has set a zero-euro budget for this measure. It is so negligible as a budget that his firm has not even sought to provide an amount. As I said, other measures are safe. But all these problems will prompt us to abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a third package of fiscal measures that should give citizens and businesses extra breathing space to get through the crisis in the coming weeks and months. There can be no misunderstanding in recent weeks about the support of the sp.a Group for the third package of measures, one measure with more enthusiasm than the other, as is the case for all groups. That makes sense in the case of a compromise. It is an important package with a major budgetary impact of EUR 650 million. I have seen that today it is trending to record videos about the budgetary impact of measures adopted by Parliament and that a warning finger is being put on them. We don't. The sp.a Group puts this same concern into action and proposes to try to contain or even compensate for the budgetary impact of measures. We have also done this in this draft law, primarily by trying to increase the efficiency of two measures, in particular the reduction in the farm levy and the threshold for using the tax shelter and to avoid overlap with regional measures. In this way, we hoped to reduce the budgetary impact by about 150 million. At first we had even found a majority to our great delight, but unfortunately that majority was melted away this afternoon. It may not have been a matter of progressive insight, but well, the amendments have been reversed. We will learn to live with that. A second way to reduce the budgetary impact of measures, or at least to ensure structural compensation, is to link proposals to ensure fiscal justice, in particular by giving tax authorities more room for manoeuvre to tackle or prevent tax fraud or by providing the tax authorities with the necessary tools to make tax collection more efficient. I am referring, among other things, to the lifting of banking secrecy. We are convinced that one of the foundations of a crisis policy, and certainly of a revival policy, is that everyone is doing their part effectively. The solidarity that is being called upon today, including this package for businesses and citizens, is subject to a price tag, and that price can only be paid permanently if we are sure that everyone is doing their part. In short, Minister, you can count on the support of the sp.a Group for this package, but you can also count on us to continue to submit proposals to ensure that fiscal justice will also be part of crisis and relay policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this new package, which is the translation of what has been decided by the ten parties in the superkern. As my colleagues have said, it is important to continue to support our businesses through, among other things, the deduction of increased investment and expenditure on professional discounting. It is also important to support non-marketers by reducing taxes on concessions, which allows donors to meet a range of needs in the sectors concerned. In fact, we had tabled a bill on the subject long before the discussions on the subject in superkern. It is a proposal that must no longer be voted on. In addition, the text provides support for families with the extension of the deduction measures for childcare and support for household income with the famous consumer cheque. I would like to return for a moment to the committee which met this afternoon, and in particular to the amendment tabled to require banks to automatically forward the balance of financial accounts to the tax authorities. This measure is presented as a way of combating tax fraud and social fraud. The fight against all forms of fraud is obviously an important fight. It is a question of fairness, justice, but also of the credibility of the State. However, the device as you propose it is very intrusive in terms of privacy. Moreover, the way in which you brought him by depositing him without consultation, without hearing experts, without consulting the Council of State or the Data Protection Authority, when it comes to balancing the fight against fraud and a very intrusive system towards all Belgians, poses a real problem to us, especially since this question would have deserved something other than a saviour debate, if you would allow me that expression. That is why we would not have supported it. Anyway, as you will understand, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill introduces a number of urgent and exceptional tax provisions that were to be included in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis and which follow an agreement reached between the ten parties in the superkern. Without going into the technical analysis of the articles, I would like to focus in particular on two measures: tax exemption from the consumer cheque and tax reduction for the acquisition of shares in firms in difficulty. The aim of the first measure is, for 12 months, to allow employers and businesses to offer consumer cheques worth 300 euros to their workers, who can only be used in sectors hard hit by the crisis – especially Horeca, the cultural sector and sports associations. We share the objectives of this measure, which we hope will help to reduce somewhat the economic and financial impact on these sectors which are currently in great difficulty. The second provision may be similar to the tax shelter already in force, but transposed to the case of companies affected by the VOCID-19 crisis. We also share the objectives. The mobilization of personal savings in the capital of SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises or scale-up companies – all of which need additional resources to finance their activities – is an excellent news. This will enable individuals to benefit, of course under conditions, from a 20% reduction, capped at EUR 100 000 for investments. Companies will find a new source of financing. For us, it's a win-win. I have to express a slight reservation before I conclude. It will not take a negative vote, but it concerns the increase of the 100% deduction rate for reception costs incurred between 8 June 2020 and 31 December. Although there is a need for a number of additional measures for the horeca sector, which is very hard hit by the crisis, we still believe that further measures could have been envisaged as a complement. By way of illustration, the exemption, in whole or in part, from employers' social security contributions for a limited period until 31 December – thus covering one or two quarters – could have helped to overcome the economic crisis linked to coronavirus. In this regard, we recall that, according to a survey conducted by the Union neutral pour indépendants during the health crisis, half of the entrepreneurs fear that they will find themselves in great difficulty and that they will have to dismiss staff. Despite these reservations or regrets, we will support the entire bill that is being put to the vote in our democratic assembly. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u134	Mr President, I will not be speaking very long because we will, of course, be voting in favour of this proposal. After all, there are very good measures. However, I would like to talk about the incredible cow trade that has taken place around this third bill of corona measures. Any liberal proposal that was too much of a relic was answered by angry socialists with a counter-proposal. I would like to give an example of the reconstruction reserve that was eventually removed and retabled this week as a separate legislative proposal. We will certainly discuss this next week. Today the Socialists again sent a very targeted torpedo to the liberals. I see you laughing, but you wanted to remove the banking secret. That's not a bad thing because it's a sacred house in our country. If you submit such a proposal, you will of course know that you are sabotaging it. For me, however, this is an extremely sad spectacle, on the heels of disadvantaged workers and self-employed people in what is one of the biggest crises since the Second World War. I propose that we use the very spacious summer recess to reflect on this state of affairs. As a newcomer here, I have really looked forward to such a cow trade being organized for these very important relance measures. The spectacle was really unimaginable this afternoon and last week in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u135	As a newcomer, you will also be surprised how often you have to come to Brussels during the recess. You will see that the committees also meet regularly during the recess if necessary. You may imagine that you can take a holiday until October, but I must disappoint you on that point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u136	Mr President, the content of the draft law has already been widely discussed. It is about measures that support employment and specifically reemployment. It is also about measures that support investment but also donations to charities, making it possible to provide computers without a VAT contribution. The measures also support consumption by means of a consumer cheque. There are also a number of other targeted measures, such as the deductibility of reception costs. In addition, there are measures that already exist and that have been extended until September 30 or December 31 of this year. These measures form what we call the "third package" and mark a new stage in supporting individuals and businesses during the period of VOCID-19. In my view, these are support measures and not recovery measures. We all know, of course, that the re-launch measures will be of a different nature and will also need to be treated in a tighter way. In committee, there has been some joint action, but I hear that there will eventually be an evaluation on the merits of what is on the table. A number of things that were tried to link to them will achieve their goal by another route. On other matters, I am sure that we will discuss them in detail in this legislature. I'm not against that either. I think that we should do this properly, not hastily. I would like to thank all those who have worked together at different times. Ten parties were consulted before coming to Parliament. Many elements were clarified in committee in a debate that I found of very good quality and for which I would like to thank everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u137	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u138	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1390/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1390/4) The bill has 31 clauses. The draft law has 31 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u139	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u140	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1157: Kristof Calvo, Samuel Cogolati, Catherine Fonck, Hugues Bayet, Jan Bertels - 1142: Sander Loones, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Barbara Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u141	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1157/6) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1157/6) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the achievement of European solidarity and responsibility in the construction of post-coronavirus through an ambitious recovery plan." The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the realisation of European responsibility and solidarity in shaping the future after corona through an ambitious recovery plan." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Gilkinet. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u142	Mr President, I have the honour to be the rapporteur of the discussion on this text tabled by my excellent colleagues Kristof Calvo and Samuel Cogolati, and inspired by our fellow MEP Saskia Bricmont. The particular feature of our discussion is that it has brought this text, co-signed by our colleagues in the PS, sp.a and cdH, into competition, on the one hand, and a resolution tabled by colleagues in the N-VA and Vlaams Belang. We have had a passionate discussion on European issues and have worked through amendments, which has led to a new text which will be put to the vote in our House. This new text incorporates other issues in relation to the original text, such as support for the Green Deal for Europe, support for the recovery plan put forward by the European Commission or the position of individual Member States with regard to respect for human rights. "Even if all of this will not make us Congo", it is ultimately a particularly interesting text which, if adopted, can provide a clear direction to the government on the positions to be taken at European level. The final vote on the text brought together the positive votes of the Ecolo-Groen Group and the PS, sp.a and CD&V groups. The CDH is not entitled to vote in committee, but since it is a co-signatory, I have no doubt of its final vote in favour of this text. Two groups opposed the text, namely N-VA and Vlaams Belang, and the MR and Open VLD groups abstained. I leave it to my colleagues to shed some light on the substance of the discussions and the final outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday it will be 11 July. On that day we celebrate the Flemish holiday. I myself am a proud Fleming. But I am more than that, I am also a European Fleming. I'm proud of that. I think it's important to repeat that. This is important to me personally and also to our party, N-VA, because it brings dynamism to European cooperation. European cooperation helps our Flemish nation to operate in the field of trade and exchange and ensures that we are open and innovative. That is why it is important to work together in a sensible way at European level. I know that some people here in Parliament want to give the impression that the N-VA is an anti-European party, using slogans and half-truths to prove it. However, reality is different. I have therefore come here to speak because of the importance of this moment. For the first time here in plenary, we are talking more deeply about European policy and going beyond the slogans and half-truths. We are looking more at the substance of what Parliament stands for and what is the most supported vision of European cooperation. In addition, I found it interesting and largely unexpected to note that when it comes down to it, Parliament turns out to be a lot less europhile than it does. It often creates the impression that Parliament is by definition in favour of ideas coming from Europe. The resolution now before us shows a more nuanced image, even a more critical one. Let me give you two examples. A first example. Months ago, with N-VA in plenary, we complained that the first package of corona support funds, the first EUR 37 billion from the European Commission, was unfairly distributed. We argued that the European Commission had handled this wrongly by using the wrong criteria, so that the countries most affected do not receive the most support, which we called unfair. In fact, our N-VA colleagues in the European Parliament abstained in the vote and the result was that we were denounced here in Parliament and in all the media. N-VA had dared to abstain because wrong paramaters had been used to distribute the aid. What is interesting today is that Parliament has some insight. It looks at things differently all of a sudden, and the resolution is actually very clear in that respect. The resolution now explicitly states that the distribution that took place at the time was not correct, that what happened there was not correct. The resolution also says that this should not happen again in the future and that support should be based on objective parameters. The N-VA was denounced, but the resolution before us today confirms the N-VA. Second example. Together with a whole series of Southern European Heads of Government, Prime Minister Wilmès had signed a letter. The subject of that letter was a strong plea for Eurobonds or coronabonds. Again, N-VA was critical and asked whether it would be better to be pragmatic and not better to spend energy more efficiently on proposals that would be successful rather than throwing off major ideological discussions that would not lead to results. Once again, we were denounced. We would have dared to say that we are not in favour of coronabonds and were denounced. However, what does this resolution show today? Initially, the resolution had the title Realising European solidarity through corona bonds. That was the title of the resolution. They wanted to introduce corona bonds. In the final text that is now before us, the word corona bonds does not even exist anymore. Eurobonds are simply no longer in the text. Actually, that's not quite right. It's in there twice. The first time is to refer to a quote by President Ursula von der Leyen in which she says that the European Commission has absolutely no plans to introduce these bonds. A second time, it is in order to refer to the director of the ESM. I quote: 'Coronabonds are not an appropriate instrument for organising rapid, objective, effective and efficient solidarity with the most affected European regions'. The resolution therefore started as a Coronabond resolution and ended as an anticoronabond resolution. That's a hell of a punishment. There's no way there's a plea for coronabonds left in there. On the contrary, there are two quotes from important political and social figures who say that coronabonds are not a good idea. I find that interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u144	Mr Cogolati wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u145	Mr Loones, I like your story, but let's get back to reality. The resolution was indeed tabled before the stimulus plan was proposed by the President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, and before the Franco-German engine put these proposals on the table of the Twenty-Seven. So you know very well that this proposal for corona bonds was completely revolutionary at the time. It was even, I must admit, a total taboo, including for Germany. Several people, including here - I am thinking in particular of our Finance Minister - have dared to take sides for a certain mutualisation of debts. I saw your opinion in Politico, minister. Indeed, we have turned the page of the retreat on ourselves and dared. Here, I must acknowledge the momentum of solidarity of the new President of Europe, Angela Merkel. Some of the 750 billion euros are partly mutualised, you know. It is this recovery plan that we support today. We simply changed the title to take account of the proposal that was on the table and that is now also on the table at the European summit next week, on 17 and 18 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u146	An interruption means asking a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u147	Mr President, I would like to ask a question. Of the €750 billion in the Next Generation EU Recovery Plan, do you know how much is actually financed by common debt?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u148	Mr President, I like the literal reading of what it says. We approved a text in committee. We shall be voting on the text in plenary. The word coronabonds is not in the text. There is no plea for the introduction of coronabonds in the text before us. It doesn't say that. There are two quotes in it that state that the introduction of it is an unwise idea, which is remarkable. That is not so special, because the text before us in committee has been very amended and substantially amended. More than 60 amendments have been tabled. About half of these amendments came from my group, the N-VA. Two thirds of our amendments have also been adopted and incorporated into the text. I would like to thank the members of the committee for this open debate. The best amendment, in my view, was the one aimed at changing the title. The title was initially 'the introduction of coronabonds'. The title has now become'realising European responsibility and solidarity'. That's fun. That has become the European Union's new catchphrase. It used to be "unit in diversity." Everyone's saying something different today. In Europe they say'solidarity and responsibility'. That is what the European Union stands for. However, that was not the title of the resolution before us. The title of the resolution is not'solidarity and responsibility' but'responsibility and solidarity', in that order. That's very relevant. Responsibility lies with those Member States that have to do their part and their work and wipe them at their own door. Only then, when we see that they are not successful enough and do not fully succeed, must we show solidarity in order to help in a sensible way where this is necessary. So what is not in the title is solidarity first under the motto 'let us all help', then to see if we can set conditions in terms of responsibility. That is not the title of the resolution. The resolution before us is based on the notion of responsibility and, in second order, on solidarity. That is a very good amendment. I would therefore like to thank all the committee members for supporting our N-VA amendment in this area. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important resolution. She's very important for two reasons. Firstly, it is about European cooperation. There are very big decisions at the moment, not only on the EUR 750 billion support package, but much more on the European multiannual budget. What will the European Union and European cooperation achieve over the next five to seven years? This will have a very big impact on the European Union, but also on us, namely on our health and our economy, but also on our own budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u149	Here too, this resolution is important, because the impact on our budget could be up to billions. What does the resolution say? That the Minister for the Budget should ensure that we do not become an even greater net contributor to the European Union, that there is a balance to be struck for the contribution we pay, and that blank cheques are not therefore possible. That is why this resolution is important. But also for a second reason, a more formal reason. Today we are stuck with a government that does not have a majority, but has gained confidence. She has not been given the confidence of my group, but of other groups in this House. This means that this government is constitutionally competent to conduct a foreign policy. She can do that. She should hardly even be accountable in this House for that. That is a prerogatives of the executive. That is why this resolution is the most important of all. Because we will now impose a framework on a government that does not have a majority. We will say: you can operate within this framework. This is what we expect when you make your voice heard at European level. What is very interesting is that Prime Minister Wilmes has repeatedly said here in Parliament: if there is a framework for Parliament, I will stick to it. It is to the credit of the Prime Minister that she does that. It is to the credit of the Prime Minister that she realizes that she is Prime Minister of a government without a majority and that Parliament should have an important and decisive voice in these important discussions. We are therefore counting on the Prime Minister to keep her word and to comply with the framework set out tonight. What are we actually doing with this resolution? We're actually giving homework to the Prime Minister. We say to the Prime Minister: this is what we expect you to do at European level. The first assignment is next. If we only get EUR 5.5 billion from the European Recovery Fund, that is too little. This resolution says this very explicitly in point i: we need to get more money, we need to get more money back from the European Union to this country. It also states that the Prime Minister is not authorised to sign blank cheques at European level. On the contrary, the resolution says that those who receive money must also see a number of conditions attached to it. I quote point d: 'Solidarity goes hand in hand with structural reforms'. If we are European solidarity, we will ask for structural reforms from those Member States that receive money. That is what this Parliament expects. Point 17: we expect the necessary conditionality to be respected. Anyone who gets loans or gifts will also get terms. He's gonna have to do some business. We will ensure that these moneys are not used blindly by those Member States. They will have to be used in an appropriate manner. This is what is written in black and white in this resolution. This Parliament expects, as a second task, that there will be no European trade in cows, that countries and regions most affected will receive the most support. That is what this resolution says: no cow-trading, no political games, but a logical criterion. If you suffer from the corona, you get support. Those who forsake the most also receive the most support. I want to make this very concrete. This European Commission communicated the growth figures this week. Belgium is getting an economic blow of 8,8%. That's huge and dramatic. In Ireland and Spain, this figure is 11 per cent. The least affected Member State is Poland, with an economic stroke of only 4.1%. Which Member State will receive money from the EUR 750 billion? Poland has the least damage of the corona crisis, but is in the top five countries that will receive the most support. These are the basic plans of the European Commission. This resolution does not agree with that. This resolution and this Parliament say, on the basis of an amendment by the N-VA Group, that they do not agree with it. Paragraph 5 of the resolution states, I quote: 'The corona fund must be divided by objective parameters, not political horse-trading'. Paragraph 11 of the resolution states, I quote: 'The distribution must be needs-driven, proportionate to the effective impact of the virus'. If Mrs Wilmès comes back to this Parliament and we only get EUR 5.5 billion and Poland or other countries that are almost or much less affected than we get hugely more, then she has not respected the obligations of this resolution. The Prime Minister must ensure that the money reaches the countries, Member States and regions that make the most money. Thirdly, we are now all focused on corona and the fight against it, the economic crisis and the health crisis, and rightly so. We also know that there are still crises coming. The most important one is at our door. At the end of the year we will be able to deal with a hard Brexit. Even then, countries and regions will suffer economically. We know which countries and regions they are. These are Ireland in the first place and then we come, together with the Netherlands. We are already saying: yes, we are prepared to show solidarity and to be responsible at the time of this corona crisis, but we expect that solidarity back. At the moment when we abandon the Brexit, we expect the other Member States to show solidarity with us. I quote from the resolution, paragraph 20, on the basis of an N-VA amendment: 'Mrs Wilmès must actively work at the European Council for the inclusion of a Brexit in the Recovery Fund'. That is what we expect to see from this European approach. We give a fourth assignment a lot of homework to the Prime Minister. The European Union calls on the Member States to reform and waste away. That is a logical question, but the European Union itself must set an example. So this resolution calls for the Prime Minister to intervene actively and actively campaign to abolish the most visible symbol of European waste. That's the monthly moving circus to Strasbourg. That costs 200 million euros a year. That's tax money that just gets thrown away. That has a huge negative climate impact. This resolution states in paragraph 21 that the Prime Minister must actively advocate the deletion of the Strasbourg Parliamentary seat. When is she supposed to do that? It must actively advocate this at the next European Council next week, but also at all future European consultations. This must be at the top of the Prime Minister's European policy. Every time we go there, we have to sue. We will also ask the Prime Minister if she has done that homework effectively and consistently. I'll come to the fifth assignment of a total of seven. This resolution says that the rule of law must be respected in all European Member States. All of them, including Spain. In the meantime, there are civilian protesters in prison for over a thousand days. The same goes for colleagues of ours. Politicians who are peacefully engaged in politics, who have argued in a peaceful way and who have been in prison for a thousand days. Colleagues, what have you done in the last thousand days? Those people have missed their families and children. Why? Because they stood up for their political beliefs. I would like to thank all my fellow Members in this House and especially the PS for their amendment which calls for the rule of law to be respected in all European Member States. Here too, we expect Mrs Wilmès to do her homework, to enforce it and to make it clear at the European summits that what is happening in Spain and Catalonia is un-European. Political opponents are not locked up. On assignment six, I can be very brief: no corona bonds. It was supposed to, but it's not in the text. It's completely deleted. We are referring only to the President of the Commission. We refer to those who say that it is not wise to do so, and so we do not. I'll be on assignment seven of the homework. In all of this, the Prime Minister cannot decide alone. This Parliament is also very explicit in this respect. In view of the fact that this is a particularly important issue, we expect the Prime Minister and this federal government to show respect for the Länder. In paragraph 19, I quote: 'The Belgian division of competence must be respected when dealing with, approving and ratifying European measures'. This means that when there are discussions on the multiannual budget, there will be an important debate on, for example, the European agricultural policy. That's a Flemish jurisdiction. This resolution says that in this case the Prime Minister will have to respect and involve the Flemish Government in dealing with, approving and ratifying it, but also in dealing with it. This means, for example, that we assume that the Prime Minister in her delegation in these European negotiations will take this into account, that she will involve experts from the Länder, that these people may not only sit outside the corridors, but that they will also be able to display their knowledge in the negotiating area. That is not a Community game. That is the essence itself. When we talk about the budget, it is about money. This means that one must be able to switch quickly. This means that we need to be able to do simulations quickly. That is what is done with the people who have knowledge of the facts. If this is about agricultural policy, it is the Länder. In this respect, this resolution is also very clear. Mrs. Wilmès knows her homework. Seven assignments, seven tasks, which I don't invent here. They are in writing in the text of this resolution. We know what the Prime Minister has to do. If she wants to get a good report, she'll have to make sure she does her homework. This summer's gonna be important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u150	Mr President, with all sympathy to Mr Loones, he was a leading member of the committee, a role which he has played. His field knowledge in the European Parliament makes him a stronghold in the debate. Mr Loones, I have no difficulty admitting that, but you're making your list now. You have indeed listed a number of points, but you do forget a few. I have a feeling you've finished your list, so I'd like to interrupt. Do you agree with me that the Prime Minister, with equal certainty about the points you have listed, should come home with a strong Green Deal, with an investment plan that opts for climate and digitalisation? Do you agree with me that the Prime Minister cannot actually come home after this resolution without Belgium being a pioneer of a climate-neutral Europe? For if you are consistent, if you say that this resolution is the framework - live this resolution, thank you for your enthusiasm, by the way - then you must also say that all the other things must be included. But what does it turn out to be? That you don't want all those other points. That is why you will vote against. That is entirely in line with your party's attitude over the last few months, including from the Flemish government. That is why I welcome this resolution because it has been demonstrated in this House that for the great choice - more or less Europe, more or less solidarity, yes or no to the Green Deal - there is an incredibly broad majority. Despite the reservations of the Liberal colleagues, a majority was found for this. If you are enthusiastic about the resolution, I hope you are also enthusiastic about the Green Deal, because that is a victory for our country and for Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u151	Mr Loones, I have heard a very strong plea from you in which you praise this Green resolution. In committee, however, you voted against, so I am somewhat confused. What will be your position in the final vote? After all, I hear you making a plea for these green plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u152	When I was younger, Jacques Vermeire had a man who always went along, a principal who gave the pie. That makes for some interruption in a speech and your advance is actually ideal. You are right because this text has evolved enormously in the right direction. It was difficult to do that because two thirds of our amendments were accepted. However, the text is not finished and needs additional work. I have just read literally from the resolution and we must think through these arguments consistently. There are still a number of gaps in this text and the work is not finished. We want to finish that work and make it clear to Mrs Wilmès what the whole story is, the logical whole that we are asking for. Mr Calvo, we have therefore prepared a number of amendments to eliminate these inconsistencies and to ensure that the text is in line with the new principles which have often been adopted by a large majority in committee. So we can propose a total story. You are right, it is about fundamental points, and that is why we are tabling three fundamental amendments here in plenary. After the homework for Mrs Wilmès, this is the homework for Parliament. I hope you are open to the debate, which you are considering supporting these amendments and that we can finish the story. Our first amendment states that the house must be put out when it is on fire. One does not grow a house when it is on fire, one does so after the fire, after the fire is put out. When the house is on fire, it must be put out. The present resolution gives the impression in some of its provisions that the house is already being renovated. That's not smart, that's not a sensible approach. In other words, crisis measures must be taken to combat a crisis, which means temporary measures. In particular, we expect that the EUR 750 billion support package, granted by the European Commission, will consist mainly of loans, not of grants. Indeed, loans can be subject to conditions, and the lender will also receive that money back. During a crisis we give some money, so that the recipient can do something with it, but when things get better, it will be repaid and then structural policy can be pursued. That is the content of our first amendment. We expect no blank cheques to be signed at European level. In this respect, we wish to replace paragraph 3 of this resolution. We very explicitly wish to see temporary measures taken in the text, as the crisis is temporary. I come to our second amendment, which is equally fundamental. Somehow I am always surprised by the fact that some people think that a level of government is becoming more popular by introducing new taxes. I am therefore giving a news flash: the European Union will not become popular if European taxes are introduced. I am terribly sorry, but paying more to the European Union will not make the European Union popular. Those who think the opposite are mistaken in the reading of things. Moreover, there is a more fundamental discussion. Taxation, fiscal power, tax power, the ability to levy taxes is a sub-state, Member State, national competence. That should also be because it is important for Member States to be close to their citizens, but also because the European Union is what it is, a Confederation. The European Union is not a federation, it is a Confederation. This means that it is financed by contributions from the Länder. This is what a confederation is, not only at European level, but in the future, hopefully soon, also at Belgian level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u153	Indeed, the second part of Mr Loones's speech shows that there is a great deal in the text that runs counter to the way he looks at Europe, and he is only halfway to his second part. I find it more and more interesting. It reveals an important choice in this resolution, in this Parliament and tout court for the European project. I do disagree fundamentally with Mr Loones' statement that a level of taxation policy will not become more popular. I fundamentally disagree with that. The motive of a politician should not be to win popularity. That's not the most important motive. By the way, if we look at the election results of most parties in this hemisphere, it would appear that we are not doing very well either. I am convinced that the European project will become popular when it is chosen for fair income, including its own, just European taxes. I am convinced that what is in this resolution will have a very strong support. The resolution states that it is time for a European carbon frontier tax. This means that polluting products from other parts of the world that are dumped on the European market will be taxed. That will be a very popular measure. It is good for the environment and good for our industry. I'm in favour of energy efficiency. Mr Loones, you should not be alarmed, I take on a number of things and my ordinary speech falls short. A carbon border tax is a popular measure and is a necessary measure. With regard to a tax on digital services and a tax on financial transactions, it is my opinion that people will not be angry when Europe asks the digital giants to contribute a fair share. So I do not agree that we should be guided by popularity. Moreover, I particularly disagree with your words that if we implement this measure, Europe will become less popular. You don't care. In the meantime, you are no longer a big fan of the European project than the People's Union, which was at the time. You are not really very concerned about the popularity of Europe. Moreover, if we introduce this measure, Europe will be much more a project of people and the environment and less of the market and currency. Such a Europe will conquer the hearts and minds of Europeans. That is our belief. That is why the Greens have worked so hard for this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u154	I assume this anticipates a debate that will no longer take place. Mr Calvo, you are speaking after Mr Loones and he is probably not going to rest your questions. There are eight remaining stakeholders for this project. And then there are two more projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u155	What is unfortunate is that we are back to slogans and half-truths, which I began my speech with. Mr Calvo says that the N-VA is not concerned with Europe, but the first part of my speech was just proof of the opposite. Then he was still cheering for my enthusiasm, less than ten minutes later he already forgot. Mr Calvo says that we do not think the motion for a resolution is important at all. We have three amendments. The text contains 32 very concrete points, many of which were added by the N-VA. We would like to amend three points. Mr Calvo says that we are not concerned about Europe and do not think it is important at all. Those are slogans and half-truths. The same applies to the taxation of digital giants, the Facebooks of this world. Two years ago, I should have checked that on my website, I wrote in an opinion document that we are open to it, but those taxes do not belong at European level, but with us, in our Parliament. Our democracies will then decide what happens to those pennies, such as, once again, it fits into a confederation. In a Confederation, it is the Member States that regulate the financing of the whole. That is exactly what we are advocating in our second amendment. You are right, Mr Calvo, that these are very essential points on which we differ. There is perhaps one element of the amendment that you will be able to appreciate: the precise content of the multiannual budget is currently being debated at European level. A number of Member States are very successful in defending their own interests, for example the Netherlands. The Netherlands is among the sensible four, who stand up for their own interests and are very successful in doing so. What is on the table for the Netherlands? The Netherlands will receive a discount on what it has to pay to the European Union. It has to pay less to the EU. That's what the Netherlands gets. What do we get? We're gonna have nouga balls. Today there is the system that allows countries, for example Belgium, to keep 20% of customs revenue. This is very important today, but will become even more important in the future, because Belgium will form a real external border of the European Union in a few months' time. We trade a great deal with the United Kingdom and it may well be that tariffs will be linked to them and that customs duties will have to be paid, income that we may no longer be able to keep. Do you think it is normal for other countries to receive a reduction in their contribution and that we should pay more and more? Do you really think that will make the European Union popular? Do you really think so? We then fundamentally share a different view. That is what the second amendment is about. We do not want European taxes. We want the Member States to levy taxes in a sensible way. We want fiscal cooperation where it is necessary, for example to tax the digital giants. We want the pennies to end up where they belong and that they don't run away. Then there is our third amendment. There are many new challenges at European level, which also require new solutions and a new approach. We must be able to finance this new approach. Let me give you an example. Each year we give hundreds of millions - I am not exaggerating, it is EUR 400 million - Belgian tax dollars, which do not go to our farmers, but they are rusted up to large industrial farms in Eastern Europe. I would think that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would have serious reservations about this. Many articles have already been written, both nationally and internationally. The New York Times says that's not normal. Even though these large industrial farms do not need the money, EUR 400 million leaves every year. We don't think that's normal. We expect the European Union to be responsible and united in a sensible way. This also means that it does not give our tax dollars to large industrial farms in Eastern Europe, which they do not need. Give them to farmers here, who also fight for a lump. Why the hell do they have to pay taxes here to subsidise their competitors? They suffer damage twice, once because they have to pay and a second time because the large industrial farms come here and take over the market. What's fair about that? What's European about that? There's no other way. Those are the choices we have to make. That is what our third amendment says. We must move away from old European solutions and look at the new challenges. We must also consider how we will finance them in a new way. This means that there must be a shift in the money and in the policies of the European Union. That is what the third amendment is about. We must invest less in industrial farmers somewhere far away, but more in our own farmers. We need to invest more in deepening our internal market, which is so important for our commercial economy. We need to invest in innovation, in research and in development. And yes, green investments are also needed, for example in cables connecting electricity networks between Member States. A sensible electricity and green policy should be possible, but embedded in a general recovery policy. That must be the reference, of course. It is not just one party's political dadas that must be met; no, we must go for a general recovery, for all Member States, for all regions for all target groups, not just for the ecologist parties. This means investing in other priorities, namely research and development, innovation, migration and security. In this respect, the European Union still has many lessons to learn. That is why we have tabled that third amendment. I'm finishing up, colleagues. Seven house tasks are assigned to the government. Prime Minister Wilmès knows what to do. I am not giving her those orders; they are in this text. They are very clear tasks, we know what Mrs Wilmès will have to study, what work she will have to do. On that basis, we will give her her report. We will not do that alone; we will do that together. This will be our reference: sensible economic policy, cutting back on moving back and forth to Strasbourg, carrying out a reasonable policy without cow-trading. We will take care of that, Mrs Wilmès. In addition, in order to complete the story, we give three tasks in the three amendments. They are important for European positioning and, in our view, breakpoints. Dear colleagues, let us be European; convinced, but not naive. Let us be European, active but not blind. This means that we must be European, but above all we must also become a realist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a long speech but I will be short. It's late and I don't think there's a lot of people listening to us tonight. It is important to return to the essentials. What drives us to put this text on the table and talk about European solidarity? This is the unprecedented health crisis! This has never been known in Europe. Today, we are facing a dramatic economic recession. I am 31 years old and 15% of the people of my generation are unemployed in the European Union. People expect politicians to respond to this unprecedented health and economic crisis. The Franco-German couple restarted the engine of European construction and put on the table of 27 a particularly ambitious plan. The European Commission has heard this Franco-German initiative and its President has put on the table a €750 billion plan. This has never been seen in European history, not even during the worst crises we have experienced. At the same time, nothing is won. We are talking about this resolution tonight because there is a very important meeting next week. On July 17 and 18, our Prime Minister will be physically at table of 27 to discuss and negotiate this plan. It is precisely to give it a strong enough mandate to finally reach a sufficiently ambitious plan to revive the European dynamic that the ecologists, in cooperation with the socialist colleagues but also thanks to the amendments of the CD&V and the co-signature of the CDH, put this proposal on the table. This proposal is quite consensual, positive and goes far by simply proposing to put money on the table today to save the countries that have suffered so much from this crisis. Mr Loones, I hear you say, "Ja, dat is een blanco cheque". A blank check? But not at all! If you read this resolution correctly, we will detail three intelligent conditionalities. We are not saying that we are going to spend 750 billion euros like this easily. Not at all! The first conditionality, as you said yourself, is not an ecologist thing, it's the Green Deal. In all these investments, there will not be a hundred of the 750 billion euros that will be spent in the industry of the previous century, that of the 20th century. Everything will be spent in the economy of the future, in the energy transition, in the Green Climate Pact. This is a goal that we must achieve: carbon neutrality, zero carbon by 2050! I think that this is an ambitious objective which must raise all of us, all of us, regardless of the political groups. I am glad that we can debate it here precisely because this text has been passed by a majority in the Finance Committee. All right, you wanted to stay in your corner like grinches with the extreme right of the Vlaams Belang, but I am proud that we have been able to reach this ambitious agreement for European integration through the alliance of democrats. The first intelligent conditionality is the Green Deal. The second is the rule of law. No, we're not going to invest blindly. There is no need to reward countries that do not respect the rule of law. I'm thinking of Poland with its LGBT-free zones. Out of the question! I am thinking of Hungary, which is endangering the judiciary and freedom of the press. We say clearly that this money, that this funding, that this aid plan will be linked to respect for the fundamental values that bind us within the European Union. Finally, third and final conditionality is European solidarity. It is indeed the name and title of this resolution which, I think, should inspire us tonight. It is this dynamic of solidarity. I think we need to stop with the retreat. We are 27 and we are all in the same boat. Sorry but we could all think in terms of small Region: just me in Flanders, just me in Wallonia, just me in my small province or in my district of Huy-Waremme. That's not what matters. We know very well today that if Italy or Spain falls, that if these countries are facing a new Greek debt crisis and well, we will all fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u157	That's why this plan is on the table. Angela Merkel, who is still not the greatest of the progressives, understood it very well. If Germany does not finance this recovery plan, countries like Spain and Italy, which have already suffered so much, are at risk of falling. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the whole point of the proposal that is on the table tonight. I think it is important that we can unite as much as possible to vote and send a very strong signal to the summit on 17 and 18 July 2020 to say yes to the European construction because the place of Belgium is at the heart of Europe and certainly not outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u158	Mr President, I would like to ask a specific question. I am a little disappointed in your statement because it mainly contains slogans. Newspaper clippings or your own vision, I don't know. I do not know if you have noticed, but I have constantly quoted literally from this resolution. The fact that you are not quoting may mean that you are not entirely content with how the resolution has evolved in a different direction than yours. But anyway, I want to ask a very specific question. Currently, Poland is based on what is now in the top five countries that will receive the most support from the European Union while that country is least affected by the corona crisis. Do you think Prime Minister Wilmès can agree to such a plan? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u159	It is funny, Mr Loones, you heard what I said. I just talked about Poland. My position is very clear. I said there was a very important condition. I told you we're not just gonna spend money. No, we're going to link that to complying with very strict conditions. The condition is indeed respect for human rights. These are very essential values for us in Europe. We must respect them. So is Poland, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u160	Mr President, on the front page of De Tijd we are reading today 'Merkel is taking control of Europe'. Merkel is putting all her political weight into getting the European recovery plan before us rapidly approved. She comes to Brussels specifically to show everyone how strongly she is committed to the European Union. Colleagues, now it's getting touching. Merkel was given a standing ovation in the European Parliament for her faith in the European Union. Undoubtedly, many European MEPs from the Flemish parties were applauding. As I said here two weeks ago, when the word Europe falls, the Flemish parties immediately fall into their knees. When Merkel unfolds her plans, the Flemish parties go flat on the belly. Contrary to what one might expect after the Brexit, namely that the European Union would finally start singing a little less, the gas pedal of the European unitary state is pushed in a lot of ways. Just think of the Green Deal and the common debt building, all without any involvement of European citizens or taxpayers. The German Presidency of the European Union is a double threat to Flemish interest. On the one hand, Merkel guarantees the ever-increasing granting of powers and tax resources to the federal Europe, a Belgium of great importance, and on the other, Merkel is going to add all its power and strength to this federalist Europe, especially now that it is going to put the Union in debt. Ladies and gentlemen, the Flemings are already the largest net contributors in the European Union today. The European Restoration Fund of EUR 750 billion is doing a great deal on top of that, because it amounts to EUR 250 billion in loans and EUR 500 billion in grants, especially to Spain and Italy. All the understanding for Spain and Italy and the extent of the corona crisis in these two countries, but it is not the responsibility of the Flemish taxpayer to assume the long-standing state debt of these countries. Let us not forget that this country too was particularly affected by the virus. It has already been said here, countries where hardly any casualties have been suffered, go home in the first plans that lie ahead with billions. We say very clearly: temporary loans: yes, but gifts: no. The proposed non-refundable subsidies are either financial transfers or gifts to southern Europe, but we have nothing to give away. Our sovereign debt is completely derailed by the corona crisis. All available tax money must now be used to rebuild our own economy, our own labour market and our own purchasing power. Six out of ten families suffer financial losses from the corona crisis. Hundreds of thousands of employees and self-employed people will lose their jobs and risk a huge wave of bankruptcies. We therefore ask the government to finally defend the interests of our country, not to fall down on Merkel and co and certainly not to be willing to transfer our tax money abroad. What we see in this resolution is that Flemish politicians once again join in another European plan that ultimately makes Flanders one of the largest net contributors, this time of corona restoration. For the first time, common debts are incurred and European taxes are also envisaged. First the money is spent and then it's only then how we'll pay for it. Not exactly a proper policy, if you ask us. We fit for these European taxes, because they are going to be an attack on Flemish assets. Fiscality is and remains for us a competence of, for and by the Member States. Flanders is not only the largest net contributor in the European Union. Flemish people will also be able to pay, through European taxes, the bill of the pivotal European institutions and the dampening of bottomless southern European wells. The Flemish Interest does not want half-hearted European compromises to be made at the expense of the Flemish. Colleagues, you have undoubtedly already noticed that during some night of the lockdown a lane of the Wetstraat was taken to turn it into a bicycle path. It was an old dream of many ecologists, which was eventually pushed through because of corona. With this example, I want to show that politicians are abusing corona. That's what's happening here today. The old European federalist, centralist dreams, paradise horses, as it were, where we are discussing the common debt-making, the European Union's own taxation, are finally trying to push through and introduce under the guise of corona. The European Commission's proposal is nothing more than a political coup d'état. It is not about corona, it is about the ultimate power in the euro area and the power of Brussels. We are at the threshold of an irreversible transfer union in which one part of Europe wants to take the portfolio of the other part hostage. Of course, we can speak with this in Parliament, with Flanders and Wallonia. I'm warning the government and the other parties right now, because you're far from here. Vetos can be presented by the 27 Member States, for example on the level of the multiannual budget, which Mr Loones has just mentioned, on the new European taxes or on the new common debt. There is a ratification procedure in the 27 Member States through as many as 50 parliaments. We will bring the debate to the people, to the citizens of Europe, to the taxpayers who will ultimately pay the fee and the European coronation bill. Together with other Eurocritical parties, we will join the resistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u161	Mr President, I shall be brief. In committee we had an interesting discussion on this resolution and in this context we have also tabled a number of amendments. It is clear, of course, that Europe is important, also in the context of the fight against the pandemic, to fight the crisis, to use the recovery, but also to create a vision of the future and to stabilise the internal market, very important to us as an exporting country. A common thread that we have used and incorporated into the resolution is that solidarity is important to us and that it goes hand in hand with responsibility, with the adoption of possible structural reforms, whether in the context of the European Semester or not, and with the fact that, when allocating certain funds under a European Recovery Plan, funds are also subject to qualitative assessment, for example, on their compatibility with matters such as the Green Deal, respect for the rule of law and the creation of a digital change. By adding these things, we can, together with the other Member States, not only but together, look forward to the future. The whole of the resolution reflects it in a balanced way. This can only be positive for Europeans, for the Belgians and the Flemings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u162	Mr President, are we going to say yes or no to European solidarity? The PTB is very clear on this: we fully support solidarity between the peoples of Europe. I'm saying "people." We therefore oppose the ideology of division, of each one for himself defended by parties such as the Vlaams Belang and the N-VA which are against this text. However, as much as we are in favour of a people's Europe, as much as we are fighting the Europe of money, which is the essence of the European Union today. We could therefore sum it up as follows: there are two currents in this House that we reject. There is the current that the proletarians of all countries must divide so that the capitalists can better exploit them. There is the current that the proletarians of all countries must unite under the banner of Europe of money so that the capitalists can better exploit them. As you will have noticed, in both cases the result is the same: the workers are the turkeys of the farce. That is why this motion for a resolution leaves me somewhat puzzled. Officially, the recovery plan proposed by the European Commission aims to help European countries overcome the post-coronavirus crisis. In reality, this plan responds first and foremost to another urgency, namely to solve the problem of the deep crisis of mistrust that the European Union is now creating among most of the peoples of the Member States. In early April, a survey revealed, for example, that in Italy, just 14% of the population appreciated European action. That is no wonder! Indeed, Italy, which was one of the countries most hit by the coronavirus crisis, was completely abandoned, in any case at the beginning of the crisis. Even Germany has blocked the export of medical equipment to that country. However, during the financial crisis of 2007-2008, the European Union was immediately in a position to pay crazy sums in order to save the banks. At the end of the day, it is only in order not to lose the little confidence it still enjoys with the peoples of Europe. Almost half of the amount of this stimulus package is not new money. This is the normal budget. Even an additional third party consists of guarantees or loans to be repaid. So it cannot be said that this amount includes a lot of new money. Moreover, the part devoted to health amounts to just €9.4 billion for the whole of Europe. This will be a collective debt of States. It's a first, let's take a look at it. But the President of the Commission has made it clear that this is a temporary and exceptional measure, not structural solidarity. Let's stop the costs, it's just for this crisis! After that, everything will become the same as before! What is worrying is that this money will be conditioned and linked to the European Semester, which is accepted by the recitals in the proposal we are considering here. The European Semester is this instrument which makes the European Commission a budgetary gendarmerie, which is the proof of all the austerity policies carried out in our country and in the other European countries for years or even decades: breaks in public services, breaks in the public pension system, or perhaps it will mean new savings in health care, of which the crisis of the coronavirus has shown the importance. It is most likely that this is the model of "any support to multinationals" which is to be put into practice, with a programme of massive and free subsidies for multinationals. We are already seeing at home an agreement, an aid to Lufthansa, which is already receiving money from the German state; but it can structure, lay off, make working conditions worse and send money to tax havens. It is thought that here the aid plan of the subsidiary of Lufthansa which is Brussels Airlines could follow the same path: aid without real conditions for employment. On the other hand, SMEs are reduced to a footnote in this European Recovery Plan. A policy for the benefit of multinationals is also reflected in the motion for a resolution before us. It calls for a revival through the "deepening of the internal market" with a union of digital, transport, energy and capital markets. However, we are aware of the disastrous effects of the liberalisations contained in the so-called 'deepening of the internal market': multinationals are cashing in, and public services and the population are laughing. This inescapable question remains: who will ultimately pay? Who will finally pay for this plan? We are talking about new tax resources for the European Union, as the proposal we are discussing calls for. We have the greatest concerns about the introduction of unfair taxes, as are taxes on consumption. Indeed, this proposal calls for a carbon tax, which is an unfair tax that is socially and environmentally inefficient. It will be remembered that in France, it was a carbon tax, introduced at the same time as the government abolished the solidarity tax on wealth, which triggered the movement of yellow vests. But taxing big fortunes is precisely the alternative. You know that the PTB defends a corona tax on assets of more than three million euros. This idea is an oil stain in several other European countries. It is through such struggles that we can unite solidarity peoples against Europe with money, not with such a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution before us calls for maximum solidarity at European level to respond to the health and economic corona crisis. It is based on the introduction of common European bonds. During the discussion in committee, I only briefly intervened on the substance. I have not voted on the more than 60 amendments and sub-amendments. This is a very serious measure for the authors of those amendments who felt hurt as a result. That is why we have tabled resolutions in this House. 244 have already been tabled in this legislature. This has led, among other things, to the fact that, in this case too, there has been a text which, in my opinion, has been overexcited in order to be able to embody a clear message. Hence our abstention today on the whole. But let us talk here about the content and the position of the Liberals. The budgetary and economic crater that COVID-19 struck on this continent is unseen. It is clear that the conflict of ideas between Eurosceptics and supporters of further European integration has found an excellent suffering in the Eurobonds repackaged as coronabonds. Those who believe that each Member State can solve this itself without Schuman Square are wandering. But those who believe that Schuman Square should simply open up the money supply are equally astray. It is clear that every way out of this crisis will have to be a European way out if we do not want to end up in a dead end. Merkel confessed yesterday to her faith in the European future. Without the crippling pressure of a subsequent term of office, she follows her conviction and shows leadership and direction. But even more important to me than her speech yesterday is the contribution of Wolfgang Schäuble this weekend in the Frankfurter Allgemeine. Schäuble, the German Finance Minister for many years, the personalisation of budgetary orthodoxy and now President of the Bundestag, clearly spoke about this issue and Germany's exchange of views. . I quote him, a few words from the original text: "Keine Währungsunion ohne Wirtschaftsunion. Wir brauchen heute den Mut, den wir in der Krise 2010 nicht hatten, um endlich zu mehr Integration in der Eurozone zu komen." He writes that after intense discussions in 1999, the euro area was finally established, expecting further steps towards economic union to follow. He says that this did not happen, however. The discussions that are currently taking place in connection with the corona crisis do not go far enough. The discussions centred primarily on whether the planned aid is granted as a debt measure or in the form of a loan. He sends this adapted message because Europe, particularly countries such as the Netherlands and Germany, which are more economically in favour of it, must have an interest in allowing countries like Italy to recover. Only then will Europe be able to recover as a whole. A piece of solidarisation of debt is no longer taboo for him. This is not just about spending at this acute crisis phase, but above all about financing the right measures in view of the greater and appropriate longer-term challenge. The introduction to Merkel reminds me of François Mitterrand, who also detached in Strasbourg in 1995, because he saw his end of life coming, talked about the need for a Europe that we need to overcome our contradictions. I quote his famous words: "Nationalism is war." With the drama of the Brexit, which takes place in slow motion in the background, we know very well what that means.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u164	Mr Leysen, Mr Loones would like to interrupt you, perhaps on Mr Mitterrand's statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u165	Mr. Loones, I was in full expectation. You haven't taken the floor yet. I expect an interesting comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u166	Mr Leysen, let Mr Loones put his own question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u167	Mr Leysen, I am not in the habit of reacting to nonsense. So I certainly won't respond to that quote. However, I would like to respond to and ask a question on a number of other points. Firstly, you claim that too many motions for resolutions are tabled in Parliament. I took a look at it. In the meantime, there have been 17 motions for resolutions tabled by your Open Group. Do you now announce this evening that you will be voting against or at least abstaining from all the Vld proposals of resolution? Secondly, in the Committee on Finance, where we discussed the text, which is very important, you said that everyone can read the report - that you would abstain on all points because you had not even read the text. Tonight you will come here and tell us that you have read the text. What does it prove, however? You still seem to think the text is about coronabonds. You didn't even listen to my speech. The word coronabonds is no longer in the text. There is only one person here in the Chamber who speaks about and pleads in favour of solidifying debt, you are, and you are calling for a solidarisation of debt. The motion for a resolution before us does not support this. Thirdly, Mr Leysen, you claim that the text is far too detailed. Every day we hear you here in Parliament pointing out that we should pay attention to the money, that we should be vigilant and that we should not just throw taxpayers' money through windows and doors. This is about billions. It is about potentially EUR 17 billion that could go further to the European Union if the story of European own resources is wrong. You come here with a story in slogans. Please address the specific point of the text before us. Make it concrete. I shall now turn to my question. A few weeks ago, there was a meeting of the European Advisory Committee. Your partymate, Mr Rik Daems, spoke at that time. He is now President of the Council of Europe. At that time, Rik Daems, Open Vld'er, argued against European taxes. This can be read in the parliamentary acts. Rik Daems has stated that there should be no new European taxes. Mr Leysen, my question to you is as follows. Do you agree with Rik Daems? Is it also your view that new European taxes should not be introduced or is it the opinion of Open Vld that new European taxes should be introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u168	You didn't listen to me. That is what you will be able to read in the text. I can only read here that, even at the beginning of the discussions, you express your surprise at the sudden urgency of the proposal. I would recommend that we organise a one-day information session for Mrs Wilmès to explain the patchwork. Once I have heard the debate, the opposite has been said. That is certainly fascinating and that will be very helpful to her. Let me answer your questions. As far as resolutions are concerned, I am not against resolutions but against excesses. I have just discussed the starting point. I haven't talked about taxes here yet, so maybe you can listen to me until the end and then ask your questions or recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u169	Is that a personal fact, Mr. Loones?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u170	Why was I surprised by the urgency? I was surprised because on 8 April Mr Van Bossuyt and I, on behalf of the N-VA Group, had first tabled a motion for a resolution in this connection. Everyone in Parliament voted against urgency at that time. We wanted an urgent vote on this, but your group, Mr Leysen, voted against it. The Green Group voted against. Why? Because the text came from the N-VA, only because. Afterwards a new text of Groen came and then the discussion had to go super fast. But the text was not given urgent treatment because you had voted against it. Now you're here to tell me that everything is super urgent? The facts have their rights, Mr Leysen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u171	(...) we now know what that means. It is interesting how in some of these cases that translates into a combination of blind adoration of Boris Johnson and something called eurorealism. Real eurorealism is the realization that we are the largest trading bloc in the world, that in an uncertain world war we are a factor of stability, that opposes obscurantism and tribalism values of democracy and human rights, even if they are under pressure from us, that we need not less but more European cooperation. Liberals are therefore Europeans, but Liberals also want the bill to be right. It must therefore be about the right balance between solidarity and responsibility. If the resources in the ESM Emergency Fund are found to be insufficient, a mechanism for solidifying debt should be possible. This must therefore go hand in hand with further economic convergence, lifting the standards of sound government management at all levels, and we must sometimes be modest in this respect, both in Flanders and Belgium, and in a responsible budgetary policy. (Protests from Mr Loones)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u172	Mr Loones, let us be courteous at this hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u173	Mr President, we have discussed the proposal for a resolution before us, and it would almost be forgotten if the debate were to be heard in committee for a long and extensive period of discussion. We have taken account of developments in this area and European proposals and declarations during the debate. We have also taken into account the input of committee members, some of whom are members of the Advisory Committee on European Affairs. That is why the text was amended. That is good, that is allowed, as far as I am concerned, because Europe is important. Europe deserves that attention. What was largely possible in committee, namely a debate beyond the slogans, is apparently not possible now. That is a pity, because I personally believe that we have produced a balanced text. It has already been mentioned: the text adopted by a large majority, which was drawn up with respect for what others have said, contains 11 recitals and 21 requests to the government. The arguments were heard in the debate and some of the amendments were accepted. It has become a balanced proposal to the government. Prime Minister Wilmès has indeed asked the Advisory Committee on European Affairs a number of times to provide her with a framework. The Prime Minister acts autonomously in foreign policy, but she asked for a framework which she will try to respect. She is, of course, cautious, because she herself needs a little margin of manoeuvre. That balanced framework is now thanks to a text by those who want to move forward with Europe, and that is most of them here. We may differ a bit about the speed and the way in which it is done, but most people want to move forward with Europe. For the sp.a Group, one element is important: European solidarity. We have always stressed this and I will come back to it later. I am pleased, and I am grateful to all those who have contributed to this, that the call for European solidarity is explicitly included in the text. We expect our government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to behave accordingly at next week's European Council meeting. I have every confidence in that. As far as we are concerned, it is clear that Belgium must continue to play a leading role in terms of European solidarity and a strong and efficient European Union. I stress the word efficiently. I would like to paraphrase statements from some people who regularly return and whom I deliberately did not seek in the socialist family. We cannot deny that we owe a great deal to the European Union over the past decades, but, as Chancellor Merkel put it, the magic of the European Union can only last if the European Union delivers results for all our citizens. As far as we are concerned, the European Commission's ambitious proposal bears the brunt of these possible results. In our view, this is a first step towards a solidarity-based approach to this historic crisis under the motto - and I apologise, because I am now using a slogan myself - get according to needs, contribute according to ability. This is a germ, and that is a good thing for us. There is an emphasis on the possibility that the European Union itself will create some of the necessary resources, and it will draw on those with the strongest shoulders. Fair taxation, you know? For a moment, I doubted whether I would add the following, but I will. Fair taxation for the strongest shoulders means a digital tax for GAFA or Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon, so not the modal Flemish capabilities, as I have just heard. There are still few members of the Health Commission - to take steps towards a strategic health union. Does it mean that the competence in the area of health care lies with the European Union? No, no one's arguing for that. Don't make that sloganic statement. The strategic health union is a step forward and we need to implement it properly. That will cost us a lot of work and discussion. The circumstances and needs of today call for historic measures and for a strategic health union. In our opinion, our country should contribute to this. We need to adapt European policy to reality, including in the area of medicinal products production. The European internal market can only lose if there is an uneven recovery of the various Member States. At sp.a we realized that for some time now, most Member States seem to be aware of it, and you too, Mr Loones, realise that. A weak southern market is also harmful to our Belgian export economy, and we must do something about it. I should like to quote the comments made by the German budgetary hawk Schäuble, as Mr Leysen referred to him on the Franco-German proposal a few weeks ago. He said that countries that are already deep in debt are giving stones instead of bread, if they are offered too much new loans and not real solidarity. This is in line with what the current President of the ECB, Mr Lagarde, said, namely that solidarity also serves the self-interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution calls for responsible solidarity and not blind transfers without any conditions. We discussed this extensively in committee. We therefore hope that our government fully supports the proposals and we have confidence in what Prime Minister Wilmès said about them. The proposal for a resolution provides a framework and allows Belgium to show a constructive attitude. At the forthcoming European Council, Belgium will then be able to take part in the march towards a Europe of the future, a Europe of solidarity. It is only together that we are coming through the crisis. A Europe of solidarity is helping us. Let us seize that opportunity. Mr. Loones, I paraphrase you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u174	Mr Bertels, that's the first time in my life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u175	Is that the first time in your life? For the report in particular, it is the first time in Mr Loones' life that he is being paraphrased.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u176	He may mean by a socialist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u177	Mr President, he did not say that. He just reported it in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u178	In his own party he is not paraphrased. I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u179	Mr President, let us be convinced Europeans, ambitious and realistic, but certainly ambitious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u180	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u181	Demand 3 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 65 Sander Loones cs (1157/7) Demand/Request 6 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 66 "Sander Loones cs" (1157/7) Demand/Request 9 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 67 Sander Loones cs (1157/7) Demand/Request 10 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 68 Kristof Calvo cs (1157/7) Demand 17 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 69 Kristof Calvo cs (1157/7) Demand 22 (n) 64 – Wouter Vermeersch (1157/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u182	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u183	Not related Without report Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Nawal Farih, Nahima Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u184	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u185	Mr President, I will be very brief. It concerns the granting of the deadline for concluding an agreement for electronic voting. So far a very brief explanation about a technical addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u186	I propose that we give a bonus for today's short statement. It is also worth mentioning that Mrs Fonck was registered, but she is asking to unsubscribe. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u187	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1404/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1404/1) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u188	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u189	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Barbara Pas, Ortwin Depoostere, Dries Van Langenhove, Frank Toventors, Tom Van Grieken, Hans Verreyt. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (592/2) The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (592/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur, Mr Briers, is not present. I give the floor to Mrs Pas as the proposer of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u190	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the first legislative proposal in this House for a single police area in Brussels. It is certainly not the first proposal of the Flemish Interest. We have already tried to do this in the previous legislatures. However, it is not the first proposal of other parties either. Almost all Flemish parties have submitted similar proposals in the past, from sp.a to N-VA on CD&V and Open Vld. That's not surprising either. After all, it was an election promise from all of you to work on that at last. The bill has been dealt with very well in committee. The debates started at the end of last year and a large number of hearings were held. Those hearings were quite educational, as were the discussions we had with the Minister for the Interior on this subject. All those parties who say that they are in love with a single police zone, I can tell you the happy news that it is legally perfectly okay to carry out the merger on the basis of a federal legislative initiative, such as that which is before us today. The Minister of the Interior has confirmed that. Our proposal, contrary to the proposals of the other parties that have been tabled in the past, takes into account the minimum representation of the Flemings in the Brussels police councils of the current six zones laid down in the Fifth State Reform. Minister De Crem has not only confirmed that it is legally perfectly okay to deal with such a bill, he also rightly stated that, I quote: "Everyone who does not have a personal interest in it should support that proposed merger." That is also exactly what we need to establish after all the hearings on the subject. Anyone with no self-interest is in favour of a merger. The only people who oppose a merger and the reason why Members vote against the proposal or give up the reason why they vote against it is that there is no support for the Brussels mayors. Some of the chiefs of police were also questioned, but they made it quite clear at the hearings that, regardless of the political choice made, they would be loyal to their mission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two comments to all those who first wish that the mayors should be supported. First of all, don't be a hypocrite. There is a great deal of policy being pursued here, for which there is absolutely no support. The speaking time allocated to me under Rule 88 is far too short to list all the relevant policy areas. However, in order not to mention migration policy by name, there are many examples of policies for which there is absolutely no support. So be consistent. Second, don't be naive. If you really want to wait for the Brussels mayors to gain support, we will get to a government even faster and even faster. The mayors of Brussels will continue to oppose and resist because they want to continue to defend their baronies. However, as the hearings have shown, there is a clear desire and willingness to cooperate. However, concrete results of these intentions remain outstanding. The necessary cooperation is not spontaneous at all. The first step is to impose a legislative proposal, such as the one before us today. That merger is necessary. It is necessary to increase the effectiveness of the Brussels police and to ensure greater security for citizens. All Flemish parties in this hemisphere realise that this is necessary. I hear you say it every time there are riots in Brussels and once again there are incidents of severe violence against the police. At that point in time, I hear everyone saying again that there is an urgent need for a single police zone. You're right. These were election promises from you, but if this is for the vote, colleagues, then all the Flemish parties that call for them every time, except N-VA who did support this proposal, will vote against it. Mr Lanjri, you were just worried. It was about the culture sector and the 180 degree curve that the Open Vld took there. You were worried if they weren't the better ones and if you were still crooked. I can tell you don't have to worry. Even CD&V, of which Minister De Crem strongly supported in the exchange of views, recently declared by the Minister that the unified Brussels police zone is a breaking point for his party in the government negotiations, including that CD&V votes against this proposal. So don't worry: as far as spinning is concerned, you are still working on the crown. Colleagues, I hope you will look at the content. If you don't like the author, look at the content. You still have a chance, when you vote, to use your common sense, to win your political courage. This is only possible if you vote against the rejection of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u191	In the meantime, the rapporteur has left us again. I think that will enable us to conclude the discussion. No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u192	Nominations for membership in the Board of Directors of the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care were announced at the May 20, 2020 plenary session (in place of Ms. Nathalie Muylle). At the plenary session of 20 May 2020, candidates for the post of member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre (in place of Ms Nathalie Muylle) were informed. The following applications had been submitted: - M. Jan Bertels (sp.a) - Mme Kathleen Depoorter (N-VA). The following applications were submitted: - Mr Jan Bertels (sp.a) Mrs Kathleen Depoorter (N-VA). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2020, I propose that the appointment of the member to the Board of Directors of the Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday, 16 July 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2020, I propose that the appointment of the member of the Management Board of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre be appointed to the plenary session of 16 July 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 10 July 2020 until Thursday 16 July 2020 at 4 p.m. Their ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 1431/1 are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 10 July 2020 until Thursday 16 July 2020 at 16:00. Their ballot and the parliamentary document No. 1431/1 are at the disposal of the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 16 July 2020. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 16 July 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u193	Voters 118 Stemmen White or invalid 37 Blank or invalid Valid 81 Geldig Absolute majority 41 Perfect majority Judicial world World of justice M. Samuel Dor a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Samuel Dor received 0 votes. Ms. Isabelle Fontignie obtained 37 votes. Mrs Isabelle Fontignie received 37 votes. Mr. Michel Forges obtained 0 votes. Mr Michel Forges received 0 votes. Mr. Patrick Henry obtained 0 votes. Mr Patrick Henry received 0 votes. Ms. Stephanie Mees obtained 1 vote. Mrs. Stéphanie Mees has received one vote. Ms. Katrin Stangherlin obtained 0 votes. Mrs Katrin Stangherlin received 0 votes. Ms. Oriane Todts obtained 0 votes. Mrs Oriane Todts received 0 votes. Civil society Civil society Mr. Hajib El Hajjaji obtained 0 votes. Mr Hajib El Hajjaji received 0 votes. Mr. Bernard Garcez obtained 0 votes. Mr Bernard Garcez received 0 votes. Francine Esther Kouablan obtained 7 votes. Mrs Francine Esther Kouablan received seven votes. Mr. Eric Libert obtained 1 vote. Mr Eric Libert received one vote. Ms. Stephanie Mees obtained 0 votes. Mrs Stéphanie Mees received 0 votes. Mr. Pol Thibaut obtained 0 votes. Mr Pol Thibaut received 0 votes. Mr. Damien Thiéry obtained 35 votes. Mr Damien Thiéry received 35 votes. Ms. Véronique Waterschoot obtained 0 votes. Mrs Véronique Waterschoot received 0 votes. Social partners Social partners Ms. Francine Esther Kouablan obtained 0 votes. Mrs Francine Esther Kouablan received 0 votes. As no candidate has obtained an absolute majority, a third ballot must be held. Since no candidate has obtained an absolute majority, the Chamber should proceed to a third vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at this third ballot, which is that of the ballotage, the relative majority is sufficient and that the actual French-speaking member(s) of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, the one who has obtained the most votes, will be proclaimed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the third vote, which is the re-vote, the relative majority is sufficient and that the French-speaking, effective member of the Governing Council of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights is appointed, he/she who has received the highest number of votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u194	To replace Mr Franz Wascotte In place of Mr Franz Wascotte Voters 119 Stemmen White or invalid 12 Blank or invalid Valid 107 Geldig Absolute majority 54 Perfect majority Mr. Jean-Michel Cassier obtained 0 votes. Mr Jean-Michel Cassier received 0 votes. Mr. Dominique Guide obtained 19 votes. Mr Dominique Guide received 19 votes. Mr Olivier Hubert obtained 73 votes. Mr Olivier Hubert received 73 votes. Mr. Christophe Legulier obtained 0 votes. Mr Christophe Leguier received 0 votes. Mr. Cédric Libert obtained 1 vote. Mr Cédric Libert received one vote. Ms Nelly Mercier obtained 1 vote. Mrs Nelly Mercier has received one vote. Ms Pascale Stenne obtained 0 votes. Mrs Pascale Stenne received 0 votes. Mr. Daniel Vanpetegem obtained 3 votes. Mr Daniel Vanpetegem received 3 votes. Ms. Françoise Winant obtained 10 votes. Mrs Françoise Winant received 10 votes. Mr Olivier Hubert, having obtained 73 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was appointed an adviser to the Court of Auditors (French Chamber). Since Mr Olivier Hubert received 73 votes, this is the absolute majority, he was appointed councilor in the Court of Auditors (French Chamber). To replace Mr Michel de Fays In place of Mr Michel de Fays Voters 119 Stemmen White or invalid 14 Blank or invalid Valid 105 Geldig Absolute majority 53 Perfect majority Mr. Jean-Michel Cassier obtained 1 vote. Mr Jean-Michel Cassier received one vote. Mr. Dominique Guide obtained 69 votes. Mr Dominique Guide received 69 votes. Mr Olivier Hubert obtained 27 votes. Mr Olivier Hubert received 27 votes. Mr. Christophe Legulier obtained 0 votes. Mr Christophe Leguier received 0 votes. Mr. Cédric Libert obtained two votes. Mr Cédric Libert received two votes. Ms Nelly Mercier obtained two votes. Mrs Nelly Mercier received two votes. Mr. William Nauwelaerts obtained 0 votes. Mr William Nauwelaerts received 0 votes. Ms Pascale Stenne obtained 4 votes. Mrs Pascale Stenne received four votes. Mr. Daniel Vanpetegem obtained 0 votes. Mr Daniel Vanpetegem received 0 votes. Mr Dominique Guide, having obtained 69 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was appointed an adviser to the Court of Auditors (French Chamber). Since Mr Dominique Guide received 69 votes, this is the absolute majority, he has been appointed councilor in the Court of Auditors (French Chamber).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u195	Voters 119 Stemmen White or invalid 18 Blank or invalid Valid 101 Geldig Two-thirds majority 68 Two-thirds majority Francophone applicants French-speaking candidates Mr. Eric Brasseur obtained two votes. Mr Eric Brasseur received two votes. Mr. Frédéric Hoebeeck obtained 7 votes. Mr Frédéric Hoebeeck received seven votes. Mr. Roland Planchar obtained 0 votes. Mr Roland Planchar received 0 votes. Mr. Guy Rapaille obtained 108 votes. Mr Guy Rapaille received 108 votes. Mrs. Céline Rouge obtained 7 votes. Mrs Céline Rouge received seven votes. Ms. Mireille Stallmaster-Degen obtained 2 votes. Mrs Mireille Stallmaster-Degen received two votes. Mr. Thierry Wertz obtained 103 votes. Mr Thierry Wertz received 103 votes. Dutch-speaking applicants Dutch-speaking candidates Mr. Bert Broeckaert obtained 107 votes. Mr Bert Broeckaert received 107 votes. M. Peter De Mey a obtenu 7 voix. Mr Peter De Mey received seven votes. Mme Yvette De Wever a obtenu 109 voix. Mr Yvette De Wever received 109 votes. Mr. Tom Ruysschaert obtained 8 votes. Mr Tom Ruysschaert received 8 votes. 1 Mr. Guy Rapaille, having obtained a two-thirds majority, is hereby declared an effective member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. 1 Mr Guy Rapaille, who received the two-thirds majority, has been appointed a permanent member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. 2. Mr Thierry Wertz, having obtained a two-thirds majority, is hereby declared an effective member of the Information and Opinion Centre on harmful sectarian organizations. 2. Mr Thierry Wertz, who received the two-thirds majority, has been appointed permanent member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. 3. Mr. Bert Broeckaert, having obtained a two-thirds majority, is hereby declared an effective member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. 3. Mr Bert Broeckaert, who received the two-thirds majority, has been appointed a permanent member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. 4. Ms. Yvette De Wever, having obtained a two-thirds majority, is hereby declared an effective member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. 4. Mrs Yvette De Wever, who received the two-thirds majority, has been appointed as a permanent member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. We have appointed all the actual members of the Information and Advisory Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. We have appointed all the effective members of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful and sectarian organisations. The Chamber must still appoint the President and the alternate President from among the actual members. The Chamber shall still elect the President and the Deputy Chairperson from among its permanent members. I propose that these designations be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on Thursday, 16 July 2020. I would suggest that these instructions be referred to the plenary session on Thursday 16 July 2020. No observations? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: - Members may vote from Friday 10 July 2020 until Thursday 16 July 2020 at 4 p.m. Their ballot papers are available to them in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot papers, they must be filled in and deposited in the ballot box. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 16 July 2020. Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 10 July 2020 until Thursday 16 July 2020 at 16:00. Their ballots are available at the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballots, fill them in on the spot and deposit them in the ballot box. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 16 July 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u196	Voters 119 Stemmen White or invalid 14 Blank or invalid Valid 105 Geldig Two-thirds majority 71 Two-thirds majority Mr. Jacques Germeaux obtained 95 votes. Mr Jacques Germeaux received 95 votes. Mr. Louis Thienpont obtained 10 votes. Mr Louis Thienpont received 10 votes. Mr. Jacques Germeaux, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr. Tony Vermeulen. Mr Jacques Germeaux, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate member of Mr Tony Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u197	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill adjusting the Act of 30 June 2020 opening provisional appropriations for the months of July, August, September and October 2020, No. 1410/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of its Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 30 June 2020 opening provisional appropriations for the months of July, August, September and October 2020, No. 1410/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill granting a state guarantee for certain credits to SMEs in the fight against the consequences of coronavirus and amending the Act of 25 April 2014 relating to the status and control of credit institutions and stock exchange companies, No. 1395/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law providing a State guarantee for certain loans to SMEs in the fight against the effects of the coronavirus and amending the law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions and stock exchange companies, No. 1395/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill adjusting the Finance Act of 20 December 2019 for the fiscal year 2020, No. 1399/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Financial Act of 20 December 2019 for the financial year 2020, No. 1399/1. The Government also called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on the granting of State guarantees was tabled under the instruments put in place at European Union level to mitigate the socio-economic consequences of VOCID-19, No. 1396/1. The Government also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on the granting of the State guarantee under the instruments established at European Union level to mitigate the socio-economic consequences of COOVID-19 was submitted; no. 1396/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u198	Mr President, a first request concerns the draft law amending the Law of 30 June 2020 opening provisional appropriations for the months of July, August, September and October 2020, No. 1410/1. It is important that this draft law should be voted in favour of the recess, as it contains a substantial budget change in relation to the COOVID-19 crisis. A second request concerns the draft law providing a State guarantee for certain loans to SMEs in the fight against the effects of the coronavirus and amending the Law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions and stock exchange companies, No. 1395/1. The urgency is justified by the fight against the negative effects of the coronavirus on our economy. As the crisis is longer and more severe than expected, the existing guarantee system has not been adapted to the financing needs of many SMEs. A third request for urgency concerns draft law amending the Financial Act of 20 December 2019 for the financial year 2020, No. 1399/1. The urgency is justified as the revised estimates should be applied from August. As a result, the adjusted estimates for the current financial year will already be based on the most recent economic budget. A final request for urgency concerns a draft law granting the State guarantee in the framework of the instruments established at European Union level to mitigate the socio-economic impact of COOVID-19, No. 1396/1. The urgency is justified by the fact that on 23 April 2020 the Heads of State or Government of the European Union adopted the European measures under COVID-19, including SURE and the Pan-European Guarantee Fund, requesting that these measures be operational on 1 June this year. The urgency is justified because this deadline has now expired, because the SURE instrument will only become available once all the Member States of the European Union have contributed to it, because the EIB's pan-European Guarantee Fund can only be officially established once the Member States representing at least 60% of EIB capital have fulfilled the necessary obligations and must contribute before receiving the support from the Fund. That was the four requests for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the justification of the Minister of Finance. I propose that we vote on this at once, unless separate votes are requested. Of course, if there is a consensus, we should not vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u200	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No 1427/1 by Mr Steven Mathei, who requests the withdrawal of the request to take account of his proposal, I consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection and with the exception of proposal No. 1427/1 by Mr Steven Matheï, who asks for the withdrawal of the request for consideration of his proposal, I consider it adopted. Those proposals shall be forwarded to the competent committees in accordance with the rules of procedure. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u201	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1408/1 amending the Act of 23 December 2005 on the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact, anticipating the allocation of the welfare envelopes 2021-2022 and providing for automatic distribution in the absence of the opinion of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u202	Mr President, as everyone knows, the welfare envelopes are means at the disposal of a negotiation between the social partners, with a view to improving in particular social minimums, particularly low allowances and even pensions. In this case, the objective is to achieve, in the crisis situation we are experiencing, a distribution which we propose in the event of a lack of agreement between the social partners. I ask for urgency, because we cannot afford to lag behind in reallocating these means to strengthen the purchasing power of the lowest incomes in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u203	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u204	Mr Laaouej, Mr Ben Achour, Mr Bayet, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1416/1 introducing an exceptional crisis contribution to meet the economic and social challenges following the VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u205	Mr President, the very good contribution to the debate by Professor Paul De Grauwe will not have escaped you. It proposes, in the difficult period we are experiencing, to introduce a contribution of solidarity. Given the state of our public finances, we believe that the formula that "the widest shoulders should contribute the most" is more relevant and topical than ever. That is why we are asking you for urgency about this text, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u206	That's a good reference. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u207	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1418/1 on the increase of full unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u208	Mr President, I think the title is quite explicit. A large part of the population is severely affected by the coronavirus crisis. It is therefore urgent to raise certain replacement incomes, including unemployment benefits. We propose a debate on this subject. That is why we are asking you for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u209	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u210	Mr De Smet, you are asking for the urgency of the motion for a resolution No 1426/1 to draw up a plan to support and revive the "world of the night" in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u211	Mr President, as you know, the world of the night, the discotheques, the night bars, the dances pay a particularly high tribute to the crisis of the VOCID-19. To my knowledge, this is the only sector that has no prospect of reopening in the medium and long term. We believe that it deserves special attention and a stimulus plan, the reasons for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u212	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u213	Mr Piedboeuf, you are asking for urgency for Bill No. 1428/1 limiting the application of Article 38/9 of the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 laying down general rules for the execution of public contracts in the context of the crisis of the VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u214	Mr President, in order to save time, we are going to ask for referral to the Council of State. Indeed, if we get the emergency, anyway, it will be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u215	Does that mean an opinion within five days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u216	If it's possible, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u217	The opinion could then come next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u218	More like 30 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u219	We will therefore seek the advice of the Council of State within 30 days. Ladies and gentlemen, can we agree to this referral to the Council of State? Mr De Caluwé, working group leader of Open Vld, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1433/1 on association work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u220	Mr President, this is a proposal from colleagues De Jonge and Lachaert. As we all know, on 23 April the Constitutional Court destroyed the non-taxable income regime. As a result, many people are in danger of getting into difficulties with their performance in association work for one or more organisations, not least the sports associations sector. The Constitutional Court has given the legislator until the end of the year time to adjust this regime. For that reason, but also because there are a lot of sports clubs where the season is on the way, that arrangement needs to be remediated very urgently. That is why we are calling for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u221	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u222	Mr De Caluwe, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1434/1 amending various provisions with a view to the introduction of the electronic consumer cheque.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u223	Mr President, this is also a legislative proposal from Mr De Jonge. There are many sectors that have been severely affected by the closure and the purchasing power of the Belgians would also well be increased. For these reasons, the federal government has launched the consumer cheque which can be used in the catering, culture, sports and leisure sectors up to a maximum of 300 euros. This check is 100 % tax-free for companies for the benefit of employees. You know our sensitivity to paper cheques and Mr De Jonge has therefore written a proposal to be able to issue this consumer cheque in electronic form. Since these cheques must be issued before the end of the year, you will not be surprised that we are asking for the urgency of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u224	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u225	By letter dated 9 July 2020, Mr. Ahmed Laaouej tabled a motion to amend the draft agenda for the plenary meeting on 16 July 2020 in accordance with rule 17, 2 of the Rules of the House of Representatives. By letter dated 9 July 2020, Mr Ahmed Laaouej tabled a motion to amend the draft agenda of the plenary session of 16 July 2020 in accordance with Rule 17 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives. The motion is in order. The motion is admissible. I propose that you move the motion. I suggest you recite the motion. The motion reads as follows: "The House proposes to amend the draft agenda for the plenary sitting on 16 July to add to it the bill amending various legislative provisions with a view to making the conditions for the voluntary termination of pregnancy introduced by Eliane Tillieux et al., No. 0158 more flexible. Consideration of this bill in plenary session is now suspended upon receipt of a third opinion requested from the Council of State. On 2 July, a series of amendments, mostly technical and legal, according to their authors, was referred to the Council of State for consideration. As a reminder, this bill, which was started in October 2019 in the Justice Committee, has already been placed twice on the agenda of a plenary session (16 March 2020 and 2 July) and has already been the subject of two opinions of the Council of State (EC opinion 66.881 of 02.03.20/EC opinion 67.122 22.06.20). The motion proposed this evening pursuant to rule 17.2 proposes that Ms. Tillieux's proposal be placed for the record on the agenda of the 16 July sitting to allow for its consideration, should the opinion of the Council of State be given by that date. Ahmed Laaouej ' The motion reads as follows: "The House proposes to amend the draft agenda of the plenary session of 16 July and to amend the legislative proposal of Mrs Eliane Tillieux cs to amend various legal provisions in order to facilitate the conditions for voluntary termination of pregnancy (Rule No. 0158) to be added to the agenda. The discussion of this bill in plenary has been suspended until the receipt of a third of the opinion requested from the Council of State. On the 2nd of July. A series of amendments, which, according to the authors, were of a technical and legislative nature, were sent for an opinion to the Council of State. We recall that this bill, which was discussed in the Committee on Justice in October 2019, has already been on the agenda of a plenary session twice (16 March 2020 and 2 July).). The Council of State has already issued two opinions on this subject (CSR Opinion 66.881 of 02.03.2020 and Opinion 67.122 of 22.06.2020). The motion tabled this evening pursuant to Rule 17 (2) of the Rules of Procedure proposes that Mrs Tillieux's proposal be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of 16 July 2020 in order to enable it to be discussed if the opinion of the Council of State is available by then. Ahmed Laaouej" As a reminder, only the proposer and one member per political group can speak. As a reminder, only the author and one member per political group may speak in the debate. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I give the floor to Mr Laaouej to briefly introduce his motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u226	As you pointed out, I will speak as the author, while Mrs Tillieux will speak on behalf of the Group. I will not go back to what happened last week, but I think that those who were present could legitimately conclude that this was a form of obstruction of our parliamentary work, or even some form of confiscation of our democratic life. Everyone will make his opinion; you know ours! I would like to recall that this bill has already been placed twice on the agenda of a plenary sitting, specifically on 16 March and 2 July. The Council of State, for its part, has already been asked twice and is now being asked for a third time, which is why we have considered that we cannot resign ourselves to this confiscation of democratic life and to this obstruction of our parliamentary work. We have thus found in the Rules of the House a valuable resource which is the possibility of tabling a point of order in order to change the order of business and the agenda of a plenary meeting. As a reminder, I proposed at the Conference of Presidents that this bill be placed on the agenda of one of our next plenary meetings for the record. This would have saved us a debate at this time, but I am glad that this debate can finally take place. You did not accept my proposal, the sole objective of which was to ensure that, if the opinion of the Council of State reached us within a period of time allowing us to include the item on the agenda, the item in question would indeed be placed on the agenda. It is therefore simply a question of respect for the democratic rights of the author of a bill, of the possibility offered to him that his proposal should follow a normal path, without any other form of obstruction. In the face of your refusal, I did not surprise you and immediately announced that I was planning to table a motion. The purpose of this motion is to obtain, for the record, a vote on the inclusion of this item in the agenda of a future plenary meeting, which could therefore be dealt with if the opinion of the Council of State is given in due course. There is therefore a reservation and this reservation can be lifted if the opinion of the Council of State reaches us. Today, we are going to have a truth vote. We will thus know if some of you have no ambiguity about this and if some of you - I am thinking of you, Mr Piedboeuf, and especially our colleagues in the Open Vld, since they have explained, in this way in the media, that they have no problem on the substance of the matter - will be able to make a commitment here that the matter will be dealt with if the opinion of the Council of State is given in due course. That's what I'm asking you. Moreover, since the debate has been confiscated, this motion allows us, through the Rules of the House, to rebuild a space for democratic debate and, in this debate, the authors of the proposal, those who support it, but also the contradictors, if they wish, will be able to express themselves and recall why it is important and urgent to legislate; why it is essential to respond to situations of distress; why it is important today to be able to ensure true legal certainty for people who do not understand that we are still using procedures, strings which, I say, do not honor those who use them. Mr. Chairman, here are the reasons for this motion. We really hope to secure firm commitments from our colleagues. They can already do so today by voting positively. But if they didn't venture - and I understood that some would not, while they claim to support the text in substance. We therefore wonder why they are hesitant - that they should at least commit themselves to a speedy vote on the text, as soon as the opinion of the Council of State reaches us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, for the record, we discussed this issue at the Conference of Presidents. I delivered to all the political groups the letter I sent to the Council of State. The Conference of Presidents has discussed and identified two possibilities. Either we get the opinion before next week's plenary session. If that opinion comes in, it will come in at the level of the plenary, as this opinion has been requested from here. On Wednesday at 12 noon we have another meeting of the Conference of Presidents. Then an agenda change can always be made. That is why some Members have said that they should not submit this bill pro-recordingly, not conditioning it. Other Members, such as Mr Laaouej and others, were in favour of registering that statement. Then the point will be deleted if the advice does not come in. Either it comes in, and then we have to look at it next week at the level, first at the Conference of Presidents, and if there is no consensus, it comes here in plenary. Either we write it in pro memoirs but it becomes without object if there is no advice. That's what this is about. Mr Laaouej insisted on the position he had taken at the Conference of Presidents, on which there was no consensus. That is why the House is the body that can and must take a decision on this matter if it asks. Who is asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u228	Mr President, it is almost midnight, so I suspect that very few people are interested in what is really a small number without meaning. After we have introduced the concept of relative majority here, we now come to the agenda setting pro remembrance. If, as you have explained, the Council of State delivers the opinion that we asked for before next week, then we can proceed with a possible change of agenda next Wednesday. I do not see any reason why we should now, through the rather bizarre construction of the phrase, so to speak, so to speak, as it is not even an arrangement. The honourable Member is therefore trying to add a somewhat besieged number in which we do not allow ourselves to be dragged along. I certainly do not need the full ten-minute speaking time to say that we will not go along with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u229	Mr President, we will support this point of order and propose to this House that we practice as we did, not later than two weeks ago, for a text that was on the agenda today. I am referring to the proposal for a law on the status of artists whose file was to be ready, according to information, on 9 July. That is why the bill was put on the agenda for submission. In fact, the opinions of the Council of State and the Court of Auditors had to be delivered, but also that the Social Affairs Committee could meet, which had been the case. Inclusion was on the agenda. It is proposed here to practice in the same way. We will support this request for three reasons. First, it is a fundamental issue in women's rights. We will be able to return to this point in the debate. We have already spoken on Thursday and in committee in the voice of our colleague, Sarah Schlitz, concerning the decriminalisation of the abortion act, the shortening of the deadlines and the solutions to be given to women who today have to travel abroad in order to be able to abort. Secondly, the debate is walled. For two years now, Parliament has been addressing this issue. Many committees have met on the subject. Arguments were exchanged, hearings were held. The evaluation of the ad hoc committee has been communicated to Parliament and the Council of State has already been consulted twice. This is my third argument. We wrote to you last Friday to propose arguments to be communicated to the Council of State. We know you didn't ask for an opinion as a matter of urgency. Nevertheless, you have given him some arguments. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the Council of State is instrumental in this process of seeking its opinion for the third time on the same text. This is if not a serious precedent, a serious exception to the rule that applies and its meaning. It is a misappropriation, an abuse of procedure and we have informed you in writing. The Council of State has already delivered two opinions on the text. However, the new amendments introduced are very similar to those on which the Council of State has already spoken. The only objective of the manoeuvre is to delay the normal course of parliamentary procedure, to abuse a loophole in our Rules – which may have to be changed – and to use the Council of State, which had specifically asked Parliament not to do so. The Assembly of the Council of State is sovereign. If she wishes to deliver an opinion before next Thursday, we must be able to discuss it here. This is a democratic political choice that we are asking this House to be able to express, including by those who are opposed to the content of the text or who are in doubt – which is absolutely respectable. In any case, it is important for the majority of the House to be able to take a decision on a matter that has been too late. That's our request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u230	Mr Gilkinet refers to my letter and to the example of the cultural sector. With regard to the cultural sector, I had the commitment of the Council of State that the opinion would come in on Monday. It also came in on Mondays. It is on the basis of that commitment that there was a consensus in the Conference of Presidents, to register it on the agenda, a consensus that is not there now. There's a little nuance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u231	Mr President, at the outset, I would like to ask, as my group leader thought, for a nominative vote. The services were warned, given the late hour, of course. Let it be clearly expressed! We had hoped better for women and for democracy. "Marchandage", "Danger démocratique", "Women deserved better": this is what we could read under the pen of editorialists last Friday after our plenary session, where we should have debated our proposal on the IVG. Session where we should have debated this text so important for women, for doctors, for planning centres, for families, for couples. No, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have not been able to debate this text, because, rather than accepting that we finally make the choice that every Member must be able to express on this text, a minority has confiscated the democratic debate by abuse of procedure. That's shocking! It's disgusting! I will not trace to you for the umpteenth time in detail the path of the proposal which legalizes the IVG, which extends the deadline to 18 weeks, and which reduces the time for reflection to 48 hours. Under consideration since the beginning of this legislature, i.e. since October, voted at first and second reading in committee, this PS proposal supported by eight parties was put in plenary session for the first time on 16 March, after having been the subject of a detailed and unreserved opinion of the Council of State, which the President of our Assembly had asked for his initiative. And we welcomed his initiative, because on a subject as sensitive as this one, it is obviously good and necessary to have informed opinions. These opinions reminded us that, yes, abortion could be considered an act of health rather than of the Penal Code; that, yes, abortion was a matter of women's freedom to dispose of their bodies. At the March plenary session, a series of opponents of the texts tabled amendments for the first time and sent them to the Council of State for their opinion. Of course, it is normal: it is healthy for a democracy to provide itself with the means to debate in the best possible conditions, informed by the opinions of the ad hoc bodies. Last week, therefore, our proposal was put back on the agenda, with many debates and two opinions from the Council of State. But there, surprise: cdH, CD&V, Vlaams Belang, N-VA have made parliamentary obstruction by requesting for the third time the referral of our proposal to the Council of State. You have heard: third time. This practice, more than unusual, has aroused indignation. Is Parliament worthy of adopting this obstruction tactic? By this parliamentary flabbus... Apparently, it makes some people laugh, Mr. President. Through this parliamentary flibus, democracy has been flouted. This is obviously a dangerous precedent for the functioning of our institution, democracy, and it is also an infringement of women's rights. To use Parliament, to use the Council of State, is also and above all to take hostage the citizens; and that is unacceptable! That is why we are introducing this motion today. As we have done today with the proposal for artists, we would like to record the proposal next week, in case the Council of State sends us its opinion by then. I would remind you that, from the very admission of the authors, most of the amendments sent last week are of a technical and legal nature. I recall our President's letter to the first President of the Council of State expressing to him the will of a majority of Parliament to finally be able to decide on the total decriminalisation of the IVG. This motion is not a provocation. On the contrary, it will allow us to regain the path of serenity, to gain height, to regain the path of serenity, and above all, of the general interest. By entering the item for memory, if the opinions have come back, the debate can begin and we will thus avoid the temptation of fliberousness, obstruction, confiscation of the democratic debate by abuse of procedure. In a democracy, at some point, we make a choice. Every Thursday, we vote for or against texts. We regret the rejection of some and we welcome the adoption of others, or the opposite. That is precisely democracy, a healthy and vigorous democracy. The course of our bill requires that Parliament be allowed to decide. The President of our Assembly has also rightly reminded us that at some point a parliamentary assembly must be able to vote. A week's delay may be a detail for you; for women, it means a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u232	Mr President, I can reassure you. It's not about content right now. It's about the agenda setting. It is not about the content of the proposal, because I would not be here for ten minutes. However, I can be brief about the agenda setting, which we are discussing today. The author of the order motion refers to the so-called tricks of the foor, and then to suggest himself a very bizarre deviation from the usual course of events and thus, as it were, to use himself tricks of the foor. Mr President, adding a pro statement to the agenda is or would not be a good precedent. Nor would it be nice to make a habit of bringing forward legislative proposals, draft laws or resolutions the opinions of which are still pending or which are still under discussion in committee. If we start with that, you can draw up a page-long agenda for plenary sessions. The meetings would then be even more chaotic than the anything but orderly that we have known in recent months. So that would not be a good thing, because the precedent would soon be perceived as normal. Shakespeare already knew that, if something evil is repeated but enough, it soon becomes quite normal. Pro remembrance means literally as a reminder. Mr Laaouej, I will not go with you in your maneuver today. Frankly, I do not think we will need alarms and reminders when the Council of State's opinion comes in. Something tells me that Members will not need a knot in their handkerchief to remind them that the opinion of the Council of State is in place and that the legislative proposals should have a further effect. I therefore agree with Mr De Roover. This is a manoeuvre in which we do not agree. We do not deviate from the usual course of events and certainly do not support the mood of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u233	Mr President, I recall Mrs Tillieux's speech, which she advised to follow the path of serenity. It is precisely what we are doing, in other words, waiting for the opinion of the Council of State to reach us. It's likely he'll be here soon. If it happens to us in time, we can put it on the agenda through the Conference of Presidents, probably next Wednesday. We are therefore in favour of respecting this path of serenity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u234	Mr President, changing an agenda on the basis of hypotheses... if an opinion of the Council of State were to be in.................................................................................................................................................... I shall be brief, Mr President. I'm not going to talk about the content. We will have sufficient time to discuss this in plenary at the appropriate time. I have listened to colleagues and I am remembering a positive point and a less positive point. When reference was made just now to the first question to the Council of State by our group on the amendments, Mr Tillieux said that she could understand that. I would suggest that the report should be reviewed once again as to the time when I asked for this opinion and the reactions to it. That was about a confiscation démocratique, to use a word I just heard. I am glad, however, that people are already changing their minds in this respect. I have just heard Mr Laaouej asking for démocratic guarantees. Well, me too. As far as the method is concerned, we are in agreement, but perhaps we will give it a different interpretation. The democratic right to which you allude is also the right to disagree and is also the right to use the democratic means provided for in the law and the Rules of Procedure. I said in committee that on this far too far-reaching legislation, without a Flemish majority, I will use all the democratic means at our disposal on such a sensitive issue as this. We shall vote against the order motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u235	Mr President, of course we will support the point of order proposed by the PS Group, which, if the opinion of the Council of State comes in time, will actually put to the vote next week the change we are proposing in the matter of the abortion law. For months, we have been witnessing blackmail scenes from the CD&V, which at all costs wants to include this law in the formation of the government. When he realized last week that his blackmail game was not working, Mr. Coens literally "peated a lead". A third opinion was then requested from the Council of State on ridiculous amendments. Flibustery! The next day, we learned that the law would be included again in the eventual government agreement. This is a shameful situation that women do not deserve. They do not deserve to be part of this political bargaining that we are witnessing today. Is this how the negotiations take place in the government? These 500 women who go to the Netherlands every year, do you put them aside in exchange for a more prestigious ministerial post or an additional ministerial post? I would like to quote a few amendments sent for advice to the Council of State in order to show how ridiculous they are. Thus, "we propose to modify the terms 'unmarried mother or not' by'married mother or not'". We insert the word 'royal' between the word 'one' and the word 'decision'. We replace the word 'committee' with 'the Advisory Committee on Bioethics'. Frankly, I don't think it'll be very enlightening. On the other hand, the first opinion of the Council of State, which we received on 1 March, stated this and I would like to point out: "It is clear from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights that the right to privacy as enshrined in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights implies that every woman has the right to respect for the decisions to become or not to become a mother and that her decision to discontinue her pregnancy or not falls within the sphere of private life and personal autonomy." I think that is the substance of what the Council of State has sent back to us for several months now. It should not be forgotten that this bill will help to respond to women who discover their pregnancy late up to 18 weeks, but especially to the many women who are 14, 15 or 16 weeks old and who still have to go to the Netherlands. It will allow women who are still in doubt to take the time of reflection not to be forced to undergo abortion before the 12 weeks, and well-decided women - we know that most women who want abortion are well-decided - not yet to have to endure this pregnancy for another 6 days. It will allow women to receive adequate care here in Belgium and those who need it and not to have to go like robbers in the Netherlands. Finally, it will allow the abolition of criminal sanctions, which was somewhat the missing piece to remove the lead screed that still weighs on women who want to dispose of their bodies. If we vote on this law, we will be in one of the most progressive countries. It is not to be one of the most progressive countries that we will vote for it, but because statistics also show that in countries where there is a progressive law on abortion, we are also witnessing a decrease in the number of abortions because it is precisely there that we can have access to contraception, that we can talk about sexuality and dispose of our body as we wish. I will conclude by saying that the struggle for women's rights, which our mothers led when they struggled for the first rights to abortion, is still relevant today. The fight will continue here in Parliament and elsewhere on the ground with the associations. I hope that this law will be passed next week, otherwise I am sure it will come back to Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u236	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a false debate. As you and a number of colleagues have said, if the opinion were to be delivered, it could be added to next week's agenda through the Conference of Presidents. More than that, this will then be added to the agenda. If we approve this addition to this proposal this week, perhaps next time we can arrange for the approval of a new coalition agreement to be sent forward, or then the composition of a new government, or perhaps even a new President of the Chamber. Mr President, I do not think we want that. We work very hard every week in this Parliament. We vote laws in reality, not in thin air. In het Frans zegt men: "Every day is enough for him." That is why we shall vote against it. This is for reasons of principle. For the sake of clarity, this is not a reduction in our voting behaviour if the opinion were to be delivered next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u237	Mr President, I have listened carefully to everyone, but sometimes I do not understand. There are groups in this Chamber that are in favour of the bill and there are groups that are against it. That's good. It's allowed in a democracy. One has the right to be against something and one has the right to be for something. However, I do not understand why the groups that have adopted this bill in full conviction are now trying to find all kinds of arguments to reject a bill which has been approved and which has been agreed to wait for the opinion of the Council of State. We did not ask for this opinion. This item will be put on the agenda on a conditional basis. If the opinion is not available, the proposal is without object. The groups opposed to the proposal are talking about bizarre constructions. It is not the first time that we have put something on the agenda. All those other times I haven't heard colleagues speak. Because one is against it now, one uses it and speaks of bizarre constructions. I think it's weird that we find this bizarre at one point and we don't find it weird at the other. What is really a dangerous precedent is that when there is a majority in this Chamber for a proposal, which is nevertheless democratic, the opinion of the Council of State is called for time and time again. In my view, that is a really dangerous precedent. If every group has to behave like this every time it does not agree with a proposal that comes here, we are going to put ourselves out of business and make a real fool of the Council of State. Mr Verherstraeten, then it is not the use of a democratic means, but then it is an abuse of a democratic means. We are not afraid, we will vote in favour of the motion. If the Council of State's advice is there, it can be perfectly taken on board for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u238	Ladies and gentlemen of the PS, your motion is useless! Indeed, if the opinion of the Council of State arrives in good time, as the President recalled, before the plenary meetings next week, the item will then be placed on the agenda. I am not deceived by the objective that you pursue through this motion. Once again - and we have experienced it very often - you try to caricature the positions of those who disagree with you. We also saw what happened last week and throughout the discussions in committee. Therefore, to avoid any caricature manipulation on your part as to our position, we will let pass your motion that is of no use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u239	Mr President, we are going to support this motion for a simple reason: last week our institution was harmed by the delaying manoeuvre. Last week, we were not only deprived of a vote, we were deprived of a debate. It was not only the family planning centres or the people who were in favour of this bill who complained about it, they also received messages from opponents of this bill, who complained that the debate could not take place. This point of order seems interesting to me because it makes it possible to repair and send a positive signal, which can reassure us that we all want this debate to finally be held and to be divided in one direction or the other. Apart from reparation, this motion has a second virtue, that of prevention. I may be a little candid, but, if I understood correctly, since the opening of Pandora's box last week, I do not see what would prevent, when the opinion of the Council of State comes back – next week or after the holidays – more than fifty parliamentarians from daring to ask for it a fourth, a fifth or a sixth time. With all due respect and esteem for my colleague Verherstraeten, I have been asking myself even more for five minutes, since I heard him say that he will use all the democratic means at his disposal. If the purpose of the game is to use ad vitam recourse to the Council of State until the Rules are amended or until Mr. Coens locks the subject in a government agreement, that is not the case. There must be a clear signal and this institution must be respected. If this point of order can serve that purpose, we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u240	Nobody's asking for the floor anymore. Then we can proceed to the vote on the motion. Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u241	Yes 67 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 143 Total The motion was defeated. The motion has been rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u242	Mr President, Messrs. Rigot and Ben Achour had a connection problem. Mr. Ben Achour has been telling me for more than an hour that he has not been able to connect and Mr Rigot unfortunately had to see this during this vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u243	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions on 1 July 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Social Affairs, Work and Pensions of 1 July 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 4/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Isabelle Galant. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 4/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Isabelle Galant. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the trade unions and Minister for Pensions Bacquelaine reached agreement in 2018 on a list of heavy-duty professions in the public sector. Anyone recognised in a heavy occupation will be able to retire earlier. In other words, from his or her 60th birthday he or she could claim a pension. However, the vast majority of these professions also exist in the private sector and that is where the shoe is wringing. In vain, the social partners tried to reach an agreement to also draw up a list of heavy-duty professions for the private sector. At the end of 2018 the consultation ended and in 2020 there is still no agreement. It is clear to everyone that the care sector in both the public and private sectors has been in the front line and is still in the frontline during this corona crisis. However, regardless of this crisis, everyone is now convinced that a job in the healthcare sector is a difficult profession and that this cannot be exercised until the age of 67. The care sector certainly meets the four criteria set by the previous government itself to be included in the list of heavy-duty professions: physical heavy work, incriminating work organisation, increased safety risk and mental or emotional stress. It is therefore a pity that this government and the previous one have missed the opportunity to work on that list of heavy professions. Putting the corona heroes figuratively in the flowers or applauding them is a noble gesture, but there is an urgent need for better working conditions for the care staff. There is an urgent need for measures to make the profession attractive and valued again, which means better remuneration and good pension conditions. In short, there is a need for a statute which guarantees a workable career and a good and insured pension at an early age.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u245	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u246	Yes 94 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u247	Mr President, I am getting the message that there are problems in Dendermonde and that Mr Roggeman is not being logged in. I assume he will vote like the rest of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u248	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u249	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 111 Yes No. [[18]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u250	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 68 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 75 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u251	Vote on amendment No. 18 by Hervé Rigot cs to insert a request 8(n).(947/7) Vote on Amendment No 18 from Hervé Rigot cs to insert an application 8(n).(947/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 67 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u252	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 70 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 147 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, as amended. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (No)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u253	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u254	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 147 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u255	Vote on Amendment No 65 by Sander Loones cs on request 3.(1157/7) Vote on Amendment No 65 from Sander Loones cs on request 3.(1157/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 66 by Sander Loones cs on request 6.(1157/7) Vote on Amendment No 66 from Sander Loones cs on request 6.(1157/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 67 by Sander Loones cs on request 9.(1157/7) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Sander Loones cs on request 9.(1157/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u256	Vote on Amendment No 68 by Kristof Calvo cs on request 10.(1157/7) Vote on Amendment No 68 from Kristof Calvo cs on request 10.(1157/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 83 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on Amendment No 69 by Kristof Calvo cs to delete the request 17.(1157/7) Vote on Amendment No 69 from Kristof Calvo cs to dismiss request 17.(1157/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 68 Yes No. 66 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on amendment No 64 by Wouter Vermeersch to insert a request 22(n).(1157/7) Vote on Amendment No 64 by Wouter Vermeersch to insert a request 22(n).(1157/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[39]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u257	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 68 Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, as amended. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? (No)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u258	Vote on Amendment No. 53 by Nadia Moscufo to delete the request 26.(567/11) Vote on Amendment No 53 from Nadia Moscufo to omit request 26.(567/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[12]] Yes No. [[115]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u259	Vote on amendment No 51 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a request 30(n).(567/11) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a request 30(n).(567/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u260	Vote on amendment No 52 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a request 30(n).(567/11) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a request 30(n).(567/11) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u261	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u262	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u263	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u264	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 110 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u265	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u266	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u267	Yes 91 Yes Non 44 No. Abstensions 8 Abstentions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 592/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 592/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u268	Mr President, I apologise, but my eye is now on it. My observation concerns Parliament's document 1157, the Europe resolution. The title of this resolution has been changed with an amendment in English. However, I see that the translation is incorrect. The Dutch amendment deals with responsibility and solidarity, in that order. The French text says that wrong. That should be corrected in the French title.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u269	The Registrar tells me it has already been passed on. That's how fast it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip051x.u270	We must approve the agenda for next week's sittings. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting was closed on Friday 10 July 2020. Next meeting on Wednesday 15 July 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting adjourned on Friday, 10 July 2020. Next meeting Wednesday, July 15, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
