ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u1	Colleagues, I suggest that we deal with the questions in the order in which they are discussed. You are asking for the floor, Mr Francken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I had tabled a specific question on the return flight from Kinshasa, with a number of additional questions. I have received the answer that this question would have been dealt with in the Committee on External Relations, because it would not be a matter for the Committee on Defence. (...) I do not agree with that. It is specifically about a repatriation flight with an Airbus of Defence. An overall response to the repatriations from Central Africa is not conclusive. So I am holding on to my question in this committee. Could that question be raised next time, Mr President? Furthermore, there is a lot of commotion about the case of the mouth masks. I understand that the DOD would now suddenly be responsible for the procurement and ordering of mouth masks. Questions have also been raised on this subject today, but unfortunately none of our group has. We were just too late for that, but the whole mask saga is pretty weird. My question is very specific. Can the Army Procurement Committee come together to deal with the issue of the procurement of mouth masks? I appeal to the commission regulations of the Army Purchases Committee. I will also send a letter to bring that committee together as soon as possible. Hopefully that will be possible in the course of next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u3	Mr Flahaut also has a question on the same problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we did follow a series of questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence yesterday between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. These questions also dealt with repatriation operations. I note that, in the note we received from the Minister of Defence this morning, there is an important element that addresses the issue of repatriation and the distribution of masks. Would it not be more effective to hear the minister detailing that note in which he responds? We have already done so in other committees: we first give the floor to the minister to describe the state of the situation with regard to the coronavirus pandemic, with the various aspects including masks and repatriations. We will then see if there is a need to open a debate or ask further questions. If we start by adding questions, I will also ask them and we will change the order of business. Mr. Chair, I suggest that the minister begin by presenting the note that we have received and that we follow with questions. There will certainly be some in the Military Purchases Committee, but let us not delay in this case in order to hold the commission before the masks arrive. Indeed, there is an urgent need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u5	Two different topics have been mentioned here. The first concerns repatriation flights. The cabinet has ruled that Defence is the operator of these flights and that the initiative and organisation for repatriation lie with Foreign Affairs. It was therefore considered that these questions, with other questions, would rather be dealt with in the Committee on External Relations. I understand that there has already been an exchange of views in that committee on this subject and that the questions that are pending will be on the agenda for the next meeting of the Committee on External Relations. Mr Francken, your question and the other relevant questions will also be dealt with at that time. If you then have a number of other elements that you would like to raise in the Committee on Defence, it is important that you clearly demonstrate the responsibility of Defence in your question, after which I feel that they can also be dealt with at a forthcoming meeting of the Committee on Defence. The second issue concerns the masks on which there are questions. In the meantime, the Minister has the habit of systematically giving an overview of the involvement of Defence in dealing with the corona crisis. It is also a very good overview. I would like to thank the Minister and his cabinet for giving us this every time. I also insist that the document be delivered to all members of the committee whenever we receive it. We can, of course, go over our entire agenda again and hold a debate on the corona crisis first. After all, that is clearly what is being driven by it. This, of course, means that all the other questions remain. My proposal would be that the questions put by Members should be dealt with specifically on the question of masks. This also gives authorship to those Members who have put questions about it. I can imagine that, on the basis of that note and any follow-up notes, we will organise another topical debate in the near future, specifically in relation to the approach to the corona crisis. However, that is not on the agenda today. I therefore think it would be useful to keep the agenda that was delivered to the members of the committee and to proceed in this way. Mr Francken, you are also suggesting that the Committee on Army Purchases should be convened on the issue of mouth masks. You know the plowing before that. If you raise a question to the chairman, he will deal with it in all wisdom, I suspect, and he will convene the committee as a matter of urgency or not. It is not up to our committee to make a judgment on this, however much I personally support your plea to be able to get a text and explanation on it. Colleagues, is it good that we proceed in this way and move on to the items on the agenda itself and start with the questions? The first question is from Mr Pivin, but he is not present. We do not have an apology either, so his question No. 55002872C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u6	Mr President, Minister, this is a question that I tabled more than two months ago. It came back to me that following the storm Ciara which swept our country in early February 2020, considerable damage was found to the roof of the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History, more precisely to the round-bosse roof which covers the Halle Bordiau and which, until then, was in very good condition. On the other hand, work in progress aimed rather at the stained glass windows and not at this famous roof. When I put my question, I insisted on the importance of taking meaningful and diligent measures of repair to preserve the priceless collections that are in the lobby of this museum, for much of the unique pieces that were then threatened by water infiltration. The Royal Museum of Army and Military History is a national and federal museum with an international reputation. It was therefore highly important to ensure that its collections were not affected or even destroyed by the weather or damage caused. Minister, have rapid repairs and structural repairs been undertaken with respect to the roofing of the museum? To what extent has the health crisis in the meantime influenced the time frame for this work as well as for those already under way? I guess there's been some delays. Finally, has the permanent exhibition devoted to World War II been relocated to the museum?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u7	Mr President, Minister, my question also dates back. I wish to be brief and to supplement what my colleague has just said. Minister, could you make an inventory of the damage to the Royal Army Museum and Military History caused by this storm? What follow-up will be given and on what calendar should this part of the museum be reopened to the general public? On the other hand, I would like to take advantage of this question to take stock of the museum's infrastructure. Where are we in the execution of much-needed works within the museum and its Brussels site? Finally, as we know these visits are now paying off, have we ever assessed the loss of profits from the closure of the museum? Have you ever planned a solution to compensate for this loss to Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the question put to me by Mrs Rohonyi and Mr Bayet, storm Ciara has indeed ripped out about 100 m2 of the 25 000 m2 roof of the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History site. Most of the damage was caused to the roof of the Halle Bordiau, but some damage also occurred in the Air Hall. Firefighters have, as early as Monday morning, secured the site to avoid any risk to people. Due to the speed of the wind and the danger to the personnel working on the roof, it was not possible to install a tarpaulin or any other temporary solution. The Régie des Bâtiments, manager of the site of the Cinquantenaire, installed a scaffolding and began repair work from the end of February. Pending repairs, it was decided to protect the exhibition spaces by covering them with waterproof tarpaulins, which explains why the Halle Bordreau is temporarily not accessible to the public. The situation will return to normal as soon as the roof is repaired. For the time being, repairs are still under way. To be quite precise, the guided tours scheduled, considering that a person accompanies the visitors, will be ensured, unless new developments justify even more drastic measures. At this stage, no damage was found to the collections or showcases. The maintenance and renovation work is the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments, which has just started a major campaign of work on the roofs of the entire Cinquantenaire. This campaign must take about four years. Repair work is part of this campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u9	Mr President, I apologise, but I have heard absolutely nothing of the answer given by the Minister. In these circumstances, it is impossible for me to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u10	Here the sound was very good. I don't know if the minister was heard by the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u11	Mr President, I do not know whether my colleague Bayet has heard the answer, but I have not heard anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u12	Mr President, I also did not understand what the minister was saying. We heard a robot voice and it was incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u13	The question then is what we are doing: does the Minister repeat what he has said or will you read in the report what he has said? Those are the two options that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u14	Mr President, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u15	Yes, I can hear you perfectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not hear me correctly, I can read my answer again, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u17	Minister, it is important that you speak slowly and clearly. Here in the committee room it was quite understandable, but apparently that was not the case at home. Mrs Rohonyi, do you want the Minister to repeat his reply or will you read it in the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u18	So I'm rereading my answer. The storm effectively ripped out about 100 m2 of the approximately 25,000 m2 of the roof of the museum site. Most of the damage was caused at Halle Bordreau, but there was also damage at the Air Hall. Firefighters have, as early as Monday morning, secured the site to avoid any risk to people. Due to the speed of the wind and the danger to the personnel working on the roof, it was not possible to install a tarpaulin or any other temporary solution. The Régie des Bâtiments, manager of the site of the Cinquantenaire, installed a scaffolding and began repair work from the end of February. Pending repairs, it was decided to protect the exhibition spaces by covering them with waterproof tarpaulins, which explains why the Halle Bordreau is temporarily not accessible to the public. The situation will return to normal as soon as the roof is repaired. For the time being, repairs are still under way. To be quite precise, the guided tours scheduled, considering that a person accompanies the visitors, will be ensured, unless new developments justify even more drastic measures. At this stage, no damage was found to the collections or showcases. The maintenance and renovation work is the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments, which has just started a major campaign of work on the roofs of the entire Cinquantenaire. This campaign must take about four years. Repair work is part of this campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u19	Thank you, Minister. I hear that the necessary has been done to protect the collections. That's a great relief. With regard to the work still under way, I regret that there is no more precise timing for repairing the damage caused by the storm. The financial situation of the museum is such that it can be imagined following the closure of the museum due to the crisis. I hope that the federal government will take this into account and support the museum and all federal scientific institutions. We know that they have been badly hit in recent years because of the drastic savings that have been imposed on them. I hope that because of the exceptional circumstances in which we find ourselves today, the federal government will support them properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would have liked to have a more precise planning by the Régie des Bâtiments for the work that will be carried out, the deadlines and the amounts. In addition, how will you compensate for the Museum's loss of profits? I hope you can send me this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u21	Mr President, Minister, my question was tabled, some time ago, last February, with a view to celebrating the sixtieth anniversary of the independence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). For the sake of efficiency, I will try to summarize it. In fact, in my question, I asked you about the opportunity to dwell on the fate of the veterans who have helped Belgium in the past during the celebrations of this anniversary. In Kinshasa, these fighters, some of whom still live, are hailed as living monuments, while unfortunately they are not considered at home. Some even ignore this part of our story. Minister, what is your position on a possible moral reward that could be given by Belgium to these forgotten soldiers? Could any recognition of these veterans be considered? Indeed, like many, I believe that, although efforts have been made at times by previous governments, they are insufficient. This question was raised in committee in February in the presence of Mrs Wilmès and Mr Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u22	Mr. Chair, Minister, my question has been tabled when we were not yet confronted with the VOCID-19 pandemic. It is therefore about a commemoration that is unlikely to take place on June 30th, as there is a great risk that we will always find ourselves in a particular situation. It will therefore be necessary to be imaginative or postulate certain events. On the other hand, the anniversary of Congo's independence awakens still some sensitivities and also raises some particular questions. I would like to say to Mrs Song that it is not correct to say that nothing has ever been done for Congolese veterans. Indeed, until the end of 2007, measures had been taken by the Government to support the latter and their widows in Kinshasa. One year, on the occasion of the celebration of 21 July, it was even arranged to honor symbolically Congolese ex-combatants present in the Palace Square at the time. It should also be pointed out that, when President Tshisekedi came to Belgium, he was insisted on going to the tomb of the Unknown Soldier as an early recognition. This protocol was interrupted in 2007 for various reasons, in the same way that several Defence initiatives were stopped at the same time. A reflection must be undertaken, for history – as well as truth – has its rights. Some things have to be done again to honour this memory and show some appreciation. I did not want to ask any questions in particular, but simply to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Chanson, Mr Flahaut, the question of the recognition of the ex-combatants of the Public Force and their social rights was resolved during the negotiations of the Main Committee, which allowed Belgium and Zaire to agree on the resolution of several questions opened up by the independence of the Congo. In this context, on 28 March 1976, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade Renaat Van Elslande wrote to his Zairian counterpart that, at the October 1973 ministerial meeting in Kinshasa, the Belgian and Zairian delegations had referred to the conclusions of the September 1972 ministerial meeting on the problems of veterans and had agreed on a lump sum of 150.5 million Belgian francs, proposed by the Belgian Government as a single intervention for the veterans of 1914-1918 and the war invalids of 1940-1945. The payment of this sum, spread over a four-year period, allowed this problem to be considered finally resolved. However, considering that other issues between our country and Zaire were pending, the Minister proposed "to join the two problems concerning veterans and arrears rents and to accept the principle of compensation between the two". This offer was then accepted by the Zairian authorities. An agreement between the Belgian Government and the Executive Council of Zaire on the final settlement of the problems resulting from the Agreement by exchange of letters between Belgium and Zaire on 28 March 1976, signed by Ministers Renaat Van Elslande and Karl I Bond, finally settled the question. However, the Zairian authorities seem to have never informed the veterans of this agreement and have fulfilled their obligations only in a very partial manner. As a reminder, in the 2000s, war annuities paid to Public Force veterans often amounted to only one dollar per month per person. In 2004, the Minister of Defence was approached by associations of Congolese ex-combatants who demanded that Belgium pay their war pension. They were told that the case had been settled definitively in 1976 and that Belgium could not be held responsible for the failure of the Zairian State. However, in view of the social distress and state of health of these persons, the Minister of Defence agreed, in cooperation with his Congolese counterpart, to restore the Kinshasa House of Combatants and its dispensary and to facilitate the regular dispatch of reserve military doctors and medicines to ensure the direct medical care of the ex-combatants. A Congolese doctor was permanently assigned to this clinic. This program worked for a few years, but eventually was interrupted. In addition, an attempt had been made to provide direct material assistance to the survivors of these Public Force veterans. But the disappearance of part of the archives of the former colonial administration and, above all, the lack of reliability of civil status files in the Congo for the periods that concern us have not, despite several attempts, made it possible to draw up a list of potential beneficiaries that is either unreliable or unreliable. Finally, it seems to me useful to point out that it is not likely that Congolese veterans of the First World War will still be alive, as they would now be over 120 years old. The same applies to the Second World War veterans, considering that it ended 75 years ago and that the youngest of them and the veterans would have reached the respectable age of 95 today. A rare age in the Congo, considering that the 65+s represent only 3.02% of the total population in 2018. From a moral point of view, the two presidents of Congolese ex-combatants' associations received national orders from His Majesty the King on 21 July 2005, as mentioned. In addition, the former Institut des Vétérans - Institut national des invalides de guerre has conducted several travelling exhibitions on Congolese ex-combatants who served during the two world conflicts. The Royal Museum of Army and Military History did the same with the exhibition "Lisolo na Bisu" (our history in Lingala language), in 2010. At this stage, I consider this case closed. With regard to the sixtieth anniversary of its independence, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has not made any specific requests in connection with this anniversary. Several activities and actions were expected. At this stage, we have little information about the state of mind around this anniversary and the plans and intentions for the celebrations around 30 June 2020 in the DRC. We only know that the king of the Belgians was invited by President Tshisekedi. Of course, the VOCID-19 outbreak will affect celebrations to commemorate DRC's independence. At present, it remains difficult to assess the extent to which activities and actions can take place in this context. Reflections are under way with our embassy in Kinshasa on the activities in Brussels and Kinshasa that our country could undertake to commemorate this anniversary together with our Congolese partners. For this too, the concrete possibilities will depend on the evolution of the current crisis, taking into account these uncertainties, the particular context mentioned, the physical limits of the War Heritage Institute but also considering the numerous commemoration events that will be organized during this anniversary of the 75 years of the end of the Second World War. It was decided, however, that the honouring of Congolese combatants would take place during the other events organized on an equal footing with all the other soldiers who gave their lives in those conflicts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u24	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive and detailed answer. I would nevertheless like to welcome your replies for several weeks in committee. Indeed, in view of what has happened elsewhere since we started this telework and our videoconference meetings, it would seem that you are one of our few ministers to take the time to answer us in a very comprehensive way. I would like to thank you for that, even if it is only my first question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u25	Minister, thank you for the answers and I join Ms. Song's statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u26	Mr President, my colleague Vicar is in the waiting room and asks that he be let in. Minister, at the time of February 11 – the date of my question – the staff refused to grant an honorary medal that would recognize the service of our military during the attacks of March 22, 2016 and the neutralization of terrorists in 2017. Indeed, the Defence decided to close the case without further action in order not to cultivate the myth of heroism within the ranks. However, no later than mid-February last, on a television set, General Compernol finally declared that he was in favour of the decoration of these women and men who took part in the aforementioned events. This recognition may seem symbolic, but it is an important act that values those who, every day, make the exceedance of themselves their priority, sometimes even at the risk of their lives. An internal military decoration in Defence for exceptional services or for acts of courage or dedication, as well as the Hero Fund Medal, external to Defence, which is awarded to reward acts of heroism, seem to me to be the minimum recognition that we can grant them. Minister, can you tell me whether you yourself are in favour of this official recognition of the military personnel present during the events listed? Can you confirm to me that General Compernol is now in favour of giving these medals to the military concerned? And if so, how will this be organised and within what time frame, given the situation we are experiencing today? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u27	We do not see Mr Vicaire knocking on the door to be admitted to the Chamber, so I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Chanson, Mr Vicar if you left the waiting room, the CHOD did indeed ask for an honour to be granted to the soldiers who distinguished themselves in a special way during the attacks of 22 March and the subsequent incidents at the central station in Brussels and Avenue Emile Jacqmain, for their particular acts of courage and dedication. According to the list established within the Defence Staff and approved by me, 51 military personnel will be decorated in the near future. For the other elements that have been put forward, I refer, Mrs Song, to the elements of the answer that had already been communicated both to Ms Ponthier, in the answer to question 55002341C, to Mr Verduyckt on January 5, 2020 and to Mr Lacroix on January 6, 2020. I will provide you with the details of these answers. Mr Vicar, if you hear me, since my intervention in the Defence Committee on 18 December, there has been no change in the degressive plan. Currently, 420 military personnel are still deployed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week to support the police, including 94 as an immediate reserve. A drawdown plan and agenda are currently available at the interdepartmental level within the framework of the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security and the National Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u30	Minister, in 2018, my colleague Georges Gilkinet spoke about the abusive deforestation of the Beauvechain airbase. Last February, it came back to me that the same scenario occurred on the basis of Florennes. The main reason for this was maintenance operations. I wanted to make sure that the reality is no different. Minister, is this information accurate? If so, what are the reasons for this deforestation? Is a reforestation plan envisaged? Can you indicate how these decisions are made and whether they are coordinated with the Department of Nature and Forests (DNF)?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u31	Ms Chanson, the Technical Monitoring Committee, composed of representatives of the Defence Staff and the Directorate of the DNF, approved in December 2016 a biomass project including partial deforestation of the Florennes base. The areas concerned are the northern areas, the southern peripheral area, the administrative area and the operational area, the beech dredge and various roads. The work was completed in mid-May 2019. The reasons for this deforestation are diverse: aviation safety: trees too close to the secondary runway, impossible access to certain aircraft parking areas, abundant rodents and birds, presence of green waste on the runway, limited visibility of the control tower; military security: control of intrusions into the military base, areas inaccessible to security personnel; physical safety: damage to fences, trees threatening to fall; health security: blocked drainage ditches, ash and sick spruce. Management of the deforested areas consists mainly of conversion into herbarium and flowered meadows, in line with the long fat policy. Trees will be replanted and will guarantee a shield against sight and sound.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u32	Minister, thank you for providing me with concrete information and for reassuring me about the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u33	Minister, you know that 41% of the military will be retired by 2025 and that by 2024 they will have to employ some 12,000 people. So I'm kicking in an open door when I say we have a staff problem. Minister, what do you think of the proposal to give Navy patrol ships the status of Navy aid ship? What arguments do you have for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u35	Minister, the sound is not very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u36	Mr Creyelman, only a full military crew is eligible for warships under Article 29 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. It will be further examined whether a mixed crew provides a solution for other ships in the event of personnel problems within the Defense Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u37	Minister, you were difficult to understand, but if I understood correctly, you would like to see what the status of naval aid ship for patrol ships could mean. So you're considering meeting the Navy's personnel problems in that way. If that is what you have effectively said, subject to reservation, then we are pleased that you acknowledge and recognise that opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u38	Mr President, I had a hard time connecting and I arrived five minutes too late. Can I be put back in the circuit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u39	Apparently, you were having trouble signing up. The Minister had the courtesy to answer the questions you have put in the joint question with your group colleague, Mrs Chanson. The Minister has provided answers to this, which you can also read in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u40	Minister, in February, the media reported a theft of kerosene from the NATO pipeline near the Hainaut Basècles, which may have been going on for several years. The criminals tapped the kerosene through an ingenious American drilling system to an underground basin, from which a drain pipe left. The loss of kerosene was apparently quickly noticed by the military, but it was mistakenly assumed that it was a leakage. Minister, I would like to refer to previous oral and written questions that I put to your predecessors in the previous legislature. Then it was about leaks and not about theft. I have some questions for you. How come they thought it was a leak instead of a theft? What steps have been taken to detect the possible leak? Has the SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) system worked properly? How long has it been since this section of the pipeline had undergone a detailed check-up? After all, every high pressure piece must be subject to detailed checks once every 10 years. I would also like to refer to my previous questions and the answers given by your colleagues. Does one have a view of the total amount of stolen kerosene? What measures will be taken to make detection and prevention more effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u41	Mr Buysrogge, the leak was detected by the Leak Detection System (LDS). This system cannot automatically distinguish between a theft and an occasional leak, for which a further human analysis is necessary. Normal security measures in the event of a leak alarm, such as the closure of the operation and the isolation of the pipeline section concerned, were taken immediately after detection. Only four hours after the first alarm, the analysis of the operational data of the SCADA system and the LDS pointed towards a theft. Both systems have therefore worked properly. After a more detailed investigation that confirmed the suspicion, the police were informed. The joint approach of Defense and the police that followed has led to a successful police action with the arrest of some suspects. The last detailed investigation of that linepiece took place in spring 2019. The estimated stolen quantity is estimated at 514 cubic metres. For understandable reasons, it is appropriate not to disclose in detail the improvement measures. People with malice could take advantage of that. On the basis of the incident, additional procedures were implemented to improve the active detection of malicious intent. In addition, measures were also taken to optimise the analysis of SCADA and LDS data.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u42	Minister, due to the lack of connection, I did not understand how many litres were probably stolen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u43	514 cubic metres.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand the systems have worked in a very effective way. The distinction between theft or leakage was difficult to make. That trace is human work. I can understand that. The systems have worked, since four hours after the alarm was sounded, there has been a check and then there has been a finding. It is a fact that the system has been going on for some time. The pre-alarm phase has taken a while. I understand from your answer that the necessary lessons are being learned, which I think is good. I am also pleased to hear that this has led to an arrest. It is therefore likely that this will lead to the necessary processes. It is good that further action is taken in this way. A well-functioning pipeline system seems to me to be very important, provided it works effectively well. Control systems should also operate in a transparent manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u45	Minister, my question is about pop-up stores or defence actions to increase the recruitment that we know will be even more necessary in the years to come. I find the original idea. The goal was to bring information about a possible career in Defence at the malls. This initiative was undertaken at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. It is commendable and innovative as a recruitment technique. My question is somewhat biased by the current situation. Indeed, I imagine that, like other actions, these had to be stopped net because of the health crisis. Mr Minister, is it possible, however, to take a short look at this recruitment, which was aimed essentially at the female public, which is something that Defence is looking forward to? How many women have been recruited as military personnel in recent years in relation to overall recruitment? Is it planned to resume these actions, to extend them or even to generalize them throughout the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u46	Minister, my questions are similar to those of my colleague Jadin. So I come to the supplementary questions. Minister, can you provide us with an overall assessment to the extent possible and taking into account the measures we are currently experiencing? Has the implementation of these pop-up blinds met the expectations and objectives set? Has this concept been successful in attracting more women? In view of these results, do you envisage a resumption when health conditions permit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u47	Minister, I have a similar question. As part of a proactive recruitment policy, Defence installed a pop-up defense village in Wijnegem's shopping centre earlier this year. The specific target group that the active recruiters wanted to reach at this location were technical profiles, young people and women. It is not by chance that this question is put to you by three female colleagues, Minister. How does the Defense Department generally evaluate the impact of this pop-up defense village? Can you give us some figures? How many interested people got the Defense Village over the floor? Which domains or components were most interested? How many effective recruitments have flowed from it so far? How many of these were women? Is the DOD planning a repeat of this particular initiative? If so, where and when is this planned for the time being, taking into account the current situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u48	Mrs Jadin, Defence has temporarily moved to two malls, as you know. One is located in Liège, the other is located in Wijnegem. This promotional action is carried out in the form of pop-up blinds with the aim of positively influencing recruitment. The action started on 17 February 2020 and ended on 15 March 2020. It's a big scoop right now and a DOD test. An initial assessment can only be made after this event, after the analysis of the results obtained has been carried out. The number of applicants and women who have taken steps to pass the selection tests to integrate Defence will only be known after the detailed analysis of this action. Depending on the results obtained, it will be decided whether or not this experiment should be repeated. To date, no new experiment has been planned in other cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u49	Minister, thank you for that clarification. We will have the opportunity to come back to this with our resolution to increase the attractiveness of Defence careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u50	Minister, thank you. Like Mrs Jadin, I believe that there will be other opportunities for us to discuss this topic again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u51	Minister, it is important that this type of initiative, which is very low-threshold and which also focuses on a number of specific target groups, should be repeated in the future. In the meantime, we look forward to an analysis of the results. I hope they won't be waiting too long. I regret, however, that there are no concrete initiatives in the pipeline at the moment. I hope that this is only due to the corona crisis and not to the lack of initiative in this area. We will certainly follow it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u52	Mr President, Minister, there is a great deal of uncertainty, doubt and questions about the future of the basis in Koksijde. Your predecessor, Minister Reynders, decided that the base in Koksijde would be closed and moved to Ostend. In the meantime, it appears that the site in Ostend has a few disadvantages, especially with regard to the landing time for military interventions over the sea. There must then be flown around the city, which takes extra time. I also noticed that a new helicopter platform is apparently being installed on the base in Koksijde. There is also a concrete cast on agricultural land. What's the latest on the move? If that move is effective, why is a new helicopter platform being installed? Will this move take place or not? If that platform is cast, is it not possible to do so at a location that is already hardened? After all, it is now the case that new agricultural land is being taken, and that is a great pity. I believe that this can be done in a more sensible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u53	Mr President, Mr Loones, the possible transfer from Koksijde airport to Ostend International Airport is being prepared by the defence staff. Coordination meetings are also held with those responsible for operating Ostend airport. A concrete platform with integrated heligrid for the training of the NH90 operations must indeed be built on the basis of Koksijde. This heligrid is identical to the grid of the frigates of about 26 meters at 16 meters. Different criteria, such as accessibility and the immediate environment, will be taken into account when installing the new platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I also see Mr Wouter De Vriendt from Ostend listening carefully. It remains special that you continue to talk about the possible relocation of that base. Some sort of agreement has been reached between your predecessor Mr Reynders and the municipality and the mayor. There's some sort of gentlemen's agreement that that move is coming. It would be good to finally clarify that dossier so that the people and the organisation can agree to it. This has been dragging on for over a year now and it can be done a bit faster. A little more political voluntarism is in order. You say a new training platform is necessary. I do not dispute that at all. It's a good thing it gets there, but don't put it in farmland, but at a location that's already hardened.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u55	Mr Loones, I will insist on that clarity. It is a pity that I was unable to join the previous debate. Minister, a few months ago we visited our naval base in Zeebrugge with the Committee on Defence. There we discussed a problem which I would like to present to you, namely that of wind farms as critical infrastructure. The wind farms in the North Sea will be expanded in the coming years. They are a growing source of energy for our country. In this sense, they are part of the critical infrastructure and must also be protected. How do you see this protection? In Zeebrugge we have heard that Russian ships would occasionally have a breakdown in the vicinity of cables or other infrastructure that is crucial for energy supply. In your opinion, is there any possibility of espionage? Do you have any attention to that? How can we react to this? To what extent are wind farm operators our partners and are they themselves convinced of the need for protection? Do you agree that the protection of that critical infrastructure by, for example, placing sensors on the cables could be a precondition for the granting of new concessions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u56	The protection of wind farms against infringements is indeed very important. Depending on the nature of the infringement and the location, in cooperation with different partners, preferably in the context of the maritime information intersection, it will be decided who will take the necessary action within the existing legal frameworks. There is evidence that hybrid Russian ships have paid attention to data and power cables and/or critical infrastructures in foreign waters. So far, there is no indication that this has happened in our waters, although that cannot be ruled out. It is not always easy to identify certain infringements, especially in the case of hybrid vessels which are not always known or identifiable as hybrids because of their civil character. In order to provide an answer to this, suspicious ships and activities may need to be detected and identified and information exchanged. The movements of Russian military ships and ships with a link to the Russian government, which can thus be considered hybrid, will be followed by NATO. The Belgian-Dutch Navy pays particular attention to the passage of these ships through Belgian and Dutch waters. When they are known to pass in our waters, they are always monitored by radar or supervised by patrol vessels. The operators of wind farms and Defense are part of the same ecosystem. We are now in a phase of happy coexistence in the Belgian part of the North Sea and want that to evolve into collaboration, cohabitation and command counting threats. In order to detect and identify suspicious ships and activities, it is necessary to cooperate technologically and operationally for detection and identification respectively information sharing with the operators of these critical infrastructures. The Belgian Offshore Platform, the association of investors and owners of wind farms in the Belgian North Sea, recognises the role of Defence as a security provider. Operators show a strong willingness to cooperate in the field of security. Discussions have started between Defence and the FPS Economy in the context of critical infrastructure security by imposing, for example, the placement of sensors on the cables as one of the conditions for granting a new concession.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We really need to re-evaluate concepts such as 'critical infrastructure' and'strategic interests for our country', even after the COOVID-19 crisis. There's no room for naivety. If we consider our nuclear power plants to be critical infrastructure, what we are doing, then in a modern, updated vision, we must also consider the windmills in the North Sea as critical infrastructure and of great strategic importance to our country. A further development of the vision is needed and very pertinent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u58	The following questioner, Mr Colebunders, is not present. His question No. 55003886C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u59	Minister, I have learned that the SMS has implemented a reform of its operation and a new structure since January 6. As you know, in the past, my group had taken a number of positions in this context, in particular with regard to the ISTAR battalion or with a view to better working with the civilian intelligence services, in order to better define each other's missions. Mr Minister, could you please tell me what changes have been implemented since 6 January 2020? How do they respond to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry? In addition, is there provision for better collaboration with the federated entities, particularly on the central issues of protecting our country's economic and scientific potential? I insist on accelerating collaboration with federated entities, if it is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u60	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, the new structure of the SGRS has indeed been in force since 6 January 2020. As a reminder, the main guidelines of this new structure are: a holistic approach to threats and phenomena within the cross-cutting platforms, a pooling of resources within pillars, a strengthened command, control and coordination body. The former directorates, Intelligence and Counter-Intelligence, have given way to a dozen cross-cutting platforms identified around certain themes or regions of the world. Each platform now brings together intelligence, counter-intelligence and, if necessary, cyber and military security expertise. The transversality of each platform thus facilitates the exchange of information and allows the drafting of integrated and more comprehensive products. In support of cross-cutting platforms, all information collection resources are now grouped under the "collection" pillar. Similarly, all analytical capabilities are now grouped under an "exploitation" pillar. These two "collective" and "exploitation" pillars ensure that platforms are put in place so that they can lead to intelligence operations. The structure of the cyber and security directions remains unchanged because of their specificity. The Defence Intelligence and Security Control Center (DISCC) is directly under the command of the SGRS and is the cornerstone of this new structure. This is the big nerve center of operational service 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Within DISCC, the steering committee provides, among other things, the coordinating mission for the benefit of the command, in conjunction with the command. The steering committee ensures support for defence operations and cooperation with our strategic partners, including State Security. As cooperation with the State Security was the subject of one of the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, a common working platform was created between the two Belgian intelligence services. The establishment of liaison officers to facilitate and strengthen the exchange of information on the ground, the organization of a monthly meeting between the authorities of the other two departments to take stock of important issues, the establishment of a common counter-terrorism platform, the identification of thirteen cooperation projects, some of which are already a reality on the ground, are concrete advances in cooperation between the intelligence services. In addition, a national strategic intelligence plan has been drafted. It defines the respective responsibilities and priorities more precisely than before. The development of a cross-sectional database is another recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee. Although there is a willingness to move in this direction, progress is slow because, in addition to intelligence services, this ambitious project involves other actors in the security world (federal police, prosecutors' offices, OCAM) and thus exceeds the resources of the SGRS alone. Not only does the new structure of the SGRS respond to the concerns raised by the parliamentary committee, it also responds positively to all the recommendations made by the R Committee, following the audits carried out by the service. The final follow-up report on the IC audit currently being prepared by the R Committee will, of course, be forwarded to the Monitoring Committee once it has been completed. The importance of the country's potential economic and scientific protection is reflected in the creation, within the new structure of the SGRS, of a platform specifically responsible for dealing with issues and issues in the field as well as in the increase of the staff in charge. The aim is to maintain even more effective collaboration with the various institutional partners, including the federated entities, and to increase the frequency of meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u61	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. However, I would like to elaborate on two points, even though they have not been mentioned in my question. Indeed, in the course of the reform, it would probably be appropriate, in the interests of the well-being of the SGRS members, for the premises to be renovated, even if I assume that this depends on the available budget. Nevertheless, they work in premises that are far from modern. I therefore hope that they can be renovated in the near future. Let me also return to the issue of collaboration with federated entities. You indicated that an improvement had been recorded at this level. I will come back to this point so that you can debrief me a little more fully on this. Indeed, this issue is crucial if we are to protect our country's economic and scientific potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u62	Mr Minister, in the Committee on Defence of 19 February, you gave me an answer to my question on how our country contributed to the debates in the Group of Governmental Experts and at the Conference of the Conventional Weapons Convention (CCW) on Lethal Autonomous Weapons or so-called killer robots. I have looked at all the available reports and I would like to ask you a few more questions. Could you be more specific about the Belgian contribution to the debate over the past year? What was the contribution of the Belgian participants to the Group of Governmental Experts in March and July 2019? Did Belgium take the floor during the discussion on killer robots at the conference in November 2019? If no, why not? On what occasions and in what wording did our country oppose the use of killer robots? What was the profile of the Belgian participants in the Group of Governmental Experts last year? Were they academics, diplomats or civil servants? How were they selected? There will be meetings again next year. Then who will be part of the delegation of Foreign Affairs and Defence? Will Belgium itself propose a definition in order to arrive at a precise definition of killer robots? Will our country argue for a normative and operational framework on killer robots, which is one of the options under discussion in 2020, which is explicitly included in the conclusions of the Conventional Weapons Conference?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u63	Mr De Vriendt, the Belgian contributions to last year's debate were made by and under the responsibility of colleagues from the Foreign Affairs Office. This contribution consisted of a Food for Thought paper jointly submitted with Ireland and Luxembourg, as well as a number of oral interventions to support it. Furthermore, Belgium took an active part in the discussions leading to the acceptance of the Belgian proposal for the new 11 Guiding Principles. In the absence of a definition of Lethal Autonomous Weapons System, Belgium, together with Ireland and Luxembourg, has cited in the paper certain characteristics that can be problematic in themselves. The Belgian delegation at the meetings of the Group of Governmental Experts and at the Conference of the Conventional Weapons Convention usually consisted of a diplomat from the Belgian Permanent Representation at the UNO, a military advisor from the Defence Staff and a legal adviser also from the Defence Staff. The members of the delegation shall take part in meetings as a result of their duties. The Belgian delegation will be assembled in the same way in 2020. Belgium seeks to create a broad understanding of what is to be understood by LAWs on the basis of the characteristics of LAWs. In the international community, however, there is still no support for a generally accepted definition. Belgium remains actively committed to creating a normative and operational framework. This could be a political declaration or a legally binding framework. The FPS Foreign Affairs colleagues are responsible for both the elaboration of the details of the Belgian position and the negotiating strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u64	Mr President, Minister, you know that my group is very active in calling for an international ban on killer robots and we ask that our country play a very active role in this. When I look at what Belgium is doing, I really want to ask you to instruct your officials and diplomats to be more active in this matter. I'm declaring myself. The Convention on Conventional Weapons held a conference in November. I quoted this in my question. Our country is not on the list of countries that intervened during the discussion on killer robots. That's a flaw. You refer to the Food for Thought Paper, submitted for expert meetings in summer 2019. It is correct that Belgium submitted such a paper, together with Ireland and Luxembourg, but that was a very short paper and was also largely the reappearance of the conclusions of the previous year. In other words, if I look at what Belgium has already done in concrete terms, apart from stating that it is an important subject for us, then the bilan is rather disappointing. I'm asking you to take a look at this. Our country has a responsibility there. We also have the tradition. In the past we have been working on anti-personnel mines, cluster munitions. It seems to me that we can really do more about killer robots. I'm asking you to take a look at that with your people and your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u65	Minister, under the previous legislature, my group has regularly spoken to the government about the societal returns of the programming law and, in particular, the replacement of the Belgian F-16s. The involvement of the federated entities as well as our industrial and research and development fabric is obviously central. However, it must be noted that we have very little information on the follow-up given. Minister, what is the status of the government's work, in particular through the collaboration between the federal departments concerned – namely, yours and the SPF Economy –, the federated entities and the Belgian companies and universities involved? More specifically, with regard to the replacement of the F-16s, how do the deals with Lockheed Martin evolve in view of the societal returns figures announced by the government? In the plenary session of October 25, 2018, Prime Minister Charles Michel said: "We will spend 600 million euros less than originally planned. We therefore wish to increase the guarantees of economic and social return. Part of this amount may, in consultation with the federated entities, be allocated to pre-financing." What about today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u66	Mr Lacroix, since the old system of economic compensation is no longer authorised by the European Commission, the government has decided – for certain cases included in the military programming law – to use the protection of essential security interests in order to consolidate the industrial and technological base of Belgian Defence. In this case, the areas are defined in the document entitled "Belgian Defence Interests in the Field of Defence and Security Policy", approved by the Government on 28 October 2016. With this in mind, the F-35 acquisition file provides opportunities that can protect essential security interests. Although transactions and their implementation remain primarily a responsibility of the industrial players involved in these measures, the federal government supports our industry to ensure the success of this new process. It must be noted that the latter is completely different from the approach to economic compensation that has taken place in the past and that the means of State intervention are, within the legally permitted framework, limited to a monitoring and mediation role. The federal government has made available €277 million in repayable advance to support implementation agreements with Lockheed Martin and Pratt & Whitney. I can confirm that the document setting out the terms of support has been approved by the Minister of Economy and myself. The realization of the opportunities is followed by a platform for inter-federal consultation with the Regions and industry. Day-to-day monitoring is carried out by the Federal Platform. Close collaboration between the FPS Economy and Defence is in place. A good dynamic exists between Belgian companies, Lockheed Martin and Pratt & Whitney. Some implementation agreements have already been concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. You specify again very well that obviously the legal framework has changed from the past and I am well aware of it. Within the limits that are yours and those of your colleague in charge of the Economy, the specification of competences, also in the matter of the return of federated entities and in a wider way of our universities, we find that the choice of the F-35 still limits these societal benefits quite well. I therefore remain on my hunger because I think that the strategic choice that was made at that time was based on different criteria, among which societal returns may not have been sufficiently weighed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u68	Minister, this question was raised some time ago following Captain Gillis' statement that there was a question from our allies in the fight against ISIS. It would be a good thing to have a government decision on the Belgian F-16s' deployment over Iraq and Syria. Minister, what is the state of play on this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u69	Minister, the coalition allies against ISIS would have asked Belgium to deploy Belgian F16s over Iraq and Syria in autumn to provide air support to the troops on the ground. Captain Gillis has been informed of this. A military-technical advice would also have been drawn up on this issue. This shows that Defense is military-technically ready. However, in order to be able to deploy the aircraft in the autumn, a government decision is needed, which would have to be taken before the summer. Minister, did Belgium get the official demand for F16's over Iraq and Syria? If so, who asked the question and what did it contain? How does the government respond to the question and how will it react in the near future? What is the content of the military-technical advice? What additional steps have already been taken in the context of a possible commitment? If the question was asked effectively, how will you involve Parliament in the decision-making process? That doesn't seem unimportant to me either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u70	Minister, I also had a question about the possible operations that we had discussed in the framework of the operational plan. Corona stepped in. You have always said that you would come to the Committee on External Relations to ask for approval. I understand that this is a matter of concern to our NATO partners and the partners involved in the international operation. Mr President, when do you expect a decision to be taken within the Wilmès Government which has now been given a full power? That's interesting to know. The preparation must begin. In the context of our international contribution, it is important that we do not delay this. You have the support of the N-VA Group to get to work on this if that were to come to Parliament. The largest group will therefore support it. Is there a majority in the government for this too? When will this decision be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium received a formal request from the United States on 23 May 2019 to increase our contribution to the fight against Daesh. The request was confirmed on 5 December 2019 and on 24 April 2020 by a letter from the United States Central Command to the Defence Staff. Both requests explicitly asked for a new deployment of Belgian F-16s within Operation Inherent Resolve in view of the continuing need for air combat and reconnaissance equipment in the fight against Daesh and for the protection of ground troops. This dossier will soon be submitted to the government and it is still too early to assess how it will respond. Given the current political situation, Parliament will also be involved in the decision-making process. It is planned to start the bet from October, but there is no fixed deadline so that no pressure is experienced in the meantime. The assignment of our F-16s is constantly adjusted according to the needs in the field and the exact task package will therefore most likely be a mix of both support and exploration orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u72	Minister, it is of course a good thing that no decision has yet been taken and that Parliament will be involved. I also wonder, of course, whether the whole international situation has any effect on this. We'll talk about it soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The official letter was received on 24 April. We have the necessary expertise, there is a technical preparation ready and we have already made a successful effort on the ground. So that's not a problem. I am pleased that you wish to involve Parliament in the decision in this exceptional situation. I look forward to the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can only repeat that I hope that there will be agreement within the government on the commitment against the terrorist network and the terrorism and jihadism still present in the region. We have worked well together for four years on the fight against terrorism on all fronts, MR, CD&V, Open Vld and N-VA. It is important that we continue to do so, of course together with the other parties from Parliament who have always supported the achievement of our tasks in the Middle East in support of the international coalition against Daesh and the jihadists who commit particularly horrific acts on behalf of Allah. You will have our support for this, and I wish you every success and good courage in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u75	Minister, is there any evolution in the contacts between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Belgium on military aspects?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u76	Mr Flahaut, as the Prime Minister recently pointed out at a joint meeting of the External Relations and Defence Committees, military cooperation is gradually resuming, particularly in the area of training, an area in which Belgian Defence has crucial expertise. The joint staff talks that took place at the end of 2019 serve as the basis for this gradual recovery and the Defence follows the road map established with the Congolese side on this occasion. Coordination continues to provide instructor support to the Kinshasa Command and Staff School in the second half of 2020. In addition, the establishment of an expert in the General Staff is still planned for this year as well. The Congolese side confirmed its participation in the next Joint Military Commission. It was planned for May, but will be postponed due to the lifting of containment and security measures related to the VOCID-19 outbreak. As mentioned in the answer to your oral question of 20 January 2020, at this stage, the activities envisaged in 2020 for military cooperation are purely military. However, contacts between Defence and Enabel have been made in order to explore possible future cooperation in the DRC.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u78	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you know, my group has for many years been supporting the advent of a true Europe of defence. Military mobility is often cited as a key issue. On Tuesday, defence ministers from four Central and Eastern European countries – Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Romania – declared that the European Union must find funds to ensure a faster flow of armed forces across the continent as the European Union prepares for a new round of very difficult budget negotiations. The latest European Commission technical document on the 2021/27 budget would, according to Agence France-Presse, propose zero funding for the military mobility programme. Mr Minister, can you provide an update on the state of negotiations at European level on the military mobility aspects of our national armies within the European Union? What position has our country taken? In the negotiations on the future MFF, what position does our country stand in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u79	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, the military mobility project is a flagship project for Belgium, not only for European security and defence cooperation internally, but also as part of its cooperation with NATO. Military mobility is also very important for Belgium, given our geographical location and the importance of our port and transport infrastructure. Belgian Defence is therefore actively contributing to the implementation of the European Union's action plan on military mobility. Since the beginning of 2018, an inter-ministerial consultation platform has been set up to carry out the efforts related to military mobility. The relationship between Defence, SPF Mobility and Transport and the Regions is very positive. We are all working towards the same long-term goals. Given the importance of this project, Defence is of course in favour of allocating a budget for military mobility that is commensurate with the needs in general. Since the budgetary negotiations within the European Union's multiannual financial framework are not in the hands of the Defence, I would ask you to ask the minister responsible for this matter to take stock of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u80	That will be done, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u81	Mr Minister, in 2015 NATO decided on a package of Tailored Assurance Measures for Turkey, after taking down a Turkish jet by the Syrian missiles, to respond to security threats at the Turkish-Syrian border. The measures consisted of additional AWACS capacity in the region, additional maritime activities in the eastern Mediterranean, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance orders and information sharing. These measures were partially implemented by the allies when there was still a consensus on support for the country. Following the clash with Russia and the Assad regime, Ankara again launched an article 4 consultation requesting additional support. Minister, the Tailored Assurance Measures already agreed for the benefit of Turkey have had significant gaps, especially when it comes to participation in the state-of-the-art naval groups in the Aegean Sea. Has or will answer our country within NATO (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u82	Mr Francken, you are not always clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u83	Minister, it was agreed to support Turkey, but there are still major gaps in that support, including in the Aegean Sea. What position does Belgium take, will Belgium help? Following the events in Idlib, Turkey asked additional questions for support to NATO, but had to remain hungry, as few European countries, nor Belgium, feel called. However, the question still exists through NATO. Was our country approached bilaterally by Turkey, the US or other NATO partners with concrete proposals for support and what was the government's response?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u84	Mr President, Mr Francken, Turkey's request to fill in missing capacity in the Tailored Assurance Measures for Turkey was examined by the Defence Department because NATO asked what contribution the nations could make. The Secretary-General of NATO defined the support to Turkey as filling the existing shortages under the TAMT, the provision of supplementary air-defence capabilities and the strengthening of activities in the maritime domain, in particular Operation Sea Guardian and Standing NATO Maritime Group 2 in the Mediterranean. Defense has informed us that no funds can be made available. On the one hand, defence does not have some of the capabilities requested and on the other hand, the current operational commitments do not allow an additional commitment to Turkey's ongoing mission to protect it. The Belgian representation within NATO was approached by the ally to advocate, among other things, a Belgian participation in the Standing Naval Force in the Mediterranean. The same answer was given to NATO before, namely that, through previous commitments, defence is not in a position to make the requested contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u85	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. The relationship with Turkey is difficult, including within NATO. I'm sure you know that, too. Even within the NATO Parliament, there are sometimes high-level discussions, including with the Greeks and with the French, but also with our delegation. Mr De Vriendt and other colleagues have already found that there are indeed tensions. It's a very difficult situation. At the moment it is relatively calm at the Turkish-Syrian border. That also has to do with the corona crisis. But the relationship with Turkey remains tense within NATO. I note that there are indeed additional logistical and other questions because of Turkey, that we are looking at how to fill them in, but that Belgium does not currently have the capacity to participate in them because it is active in other areas. Thank you for your reply, Minister. I assume that we will be able to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u86	Minister, more than a month after the signing of the peace agreement with the Taliban in Doha, the agreements made are already under pressure and pessimism is growing among NATO Member States with a military presence in the area. We also receive information on this in the committee for the follow-up of foreign shipments. At present we are in phase A, with a drastic reduction, especially in the number of American soldiers present, from 14,000 to 8.600 within 135 days, in accordance with the agreements made with the Taliban. The latter now benefit from the tensions between the Americans and those in power in Kabul in order to strengthen their own position and attack the government army at regular intervals, when they promised not to. So they do not keep their promises, as the Taliban never actually keep their promises. Despite the limitations of the coronavirus, the Battalion Liberation prepares for a development in the region in July, while Afghanistan braces for a very uncertain period. So our country has every interest in having clarity about the next stages of withdrawal of the US and our NATO partners. President Trump is in a fierce election battle with Joe Biden. "We are going to bring our boys back home," was one of his biggest election promises. That's what he's doing. If we send people, while the Americans are retreating massively, then we need to be extra careful about the security situation in Afghanistan. Minister, what has been agreed on the next phase of withdrawal, in which all NATO forces will leave the region within 14 months? What conditions and guarantees do we ask within NATO to ensure a safe phasing-out for our troops? When is the final end of our defence mission in Afghanistan envisaged in the plans? When are we finally leaving? How are the bilateral consultations and cooperation with Germany, our framework nation in northern Afghanistan? Are we in agreement with Berlin in dealing with our exit? We're working on an exit strategy for the corona crisis. My question concerns the exit strategy from Afghanistan. Is it clear to Belgium yet? We would still send troops, but when will the operation in Afghanistan finally come to an end?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u87	Mr Francken, in support of the progress made by the United States-Taliban agreement, NATO has decided to reduce its troops in the Resolute Support Mission. For this purpose, the commander of the operation was allowed to move to the phase A light, in which the Afghan security forces continue to train, assist and advise, but with fewer soldiers. At the same time, NATO military authorities were asked to examine all aspects of a possible withdrawal. That process is called prudent planning in military terms. SHAPE has asked the framework nations of Germany, in the case of the Belgian deployment, to express their needs, including the reasonable period they consider necessary to allow the troops to return from their respective areas of responsibility. In this process, consultations were held with the various partners, including Belgium. It is clear that the safety of personnel will be an important part of this. Close cooperation and continuous consultation guarantee maximum security. The conditions that NATO puts in place to decide on withdrawal include an intra-Afghan peace agreement and security services which are sufficiently trained to ensure independent security in Afghanistan. The decision to withdraw is subject to the conditions mentioned above, which are currently not present. The North Atlantic Council has not yet decided to retrieve the troops of Resolute Support Mission. Consequently, it is currently impossible to determine when the mission will be definitively terminated. In political terms, our position is closely in line with that of Germany. However, there has been no recent consultation on Afghanistan, but the issue is obviously on the agenda for the bilateral consultations between Defence and Berlin. On a military level, Defense has a liaison officer with the German Bundeswehr, specifically for Resolute Support Mission. Despite the difficult circumstances caused by the corona crisis, the last rotation of Belgian soldiers was carried out smoothly. That proves once again our good cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. If you stick to the principle that we stay there, as long as the Afghan government forces and the security infrastructure cannot guarantee the security of the inhabitants, we will be there in 50 years' time. The country just can't handle it in my eyes. The question is to look at the exit strategy. I continue to question you because I want to know when the Germans are coming up with their plan and what we think about it. I will keep a close eye on the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u89	Debates of the European Parliament 55004566C by Ms Moscufo was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u90	Mr Minister, in recent months several colleagues, Mr Francken, Mrs Ponthier, Mr Verduyckt and perhaps others, have asked questions about the new training programme for Defence and Security, which would take place in the school year 2021-2022 at 16 Flemish schools and, if I am not mistaken, 16 French schools. That's a unique opportunity for the Defense Department. I think I remember that the other colleagues who supported the possible creation of the training are also very much in favour of it. I'm doing the same thing. However, we have to note that there are still a few obstacles. You yourself advanced the school year 2021-2022. Obstacles still have to be taken before this training can be effectively launched. For example, that training can only be organised in Flemish schools after the recognition of the professional qualification by the Flemish government. Only then can the government decide on the concrete application for programming and the exact starting year. On the basis of Article 6a of the Flemish Government's decision of 21 December 2007 on the study offer, only 8 official and 8 subsidised free schools are now eligible for an Integral Safety Training. An additional foundation, such as the planned training in Defence and Security, would only be possible if one of the schools stopped offering this offer and gave the Flemish Government a favourable opinion on the programme request for a new direction. Mr President, how do you intend to implement the training programme for defence and security? Will this happen as a new programming or rather as an informal complement to the current training Integrated Security? Has the Defence Staff already been in conjunction with the leadership of the interested schools and/or the Flemish Ministry of Education to make known their precise intentions and to remove possible legal and administrative obstacles? For the school year 2021-2022 the deadline is approaching. This one was supposed to be in November. When does the Defence Department intend to have an application for recognition of the professional qualification and approval of the training?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u91	Mr President, the programme of Integrated Safety and Safety Occupations is currently being offered as a seventh year. The aim of the project Defence and Security is to offer a new course of study in the third degree of secondary education. Defence has been working with the Flemish Ministry of Education since early 2019. Defense doesn't work directly with the schools. Since the beginning of this year the work has focused on the legal aspects of the project, in particular the adaptation of the legal texts and the preparation of an agreement. At the same time, the different actors are also working on the development of curriculum components and an information brochure for future students and their parents. The Flemish Government decides on the applications for the programme, after consulting the Education Inspectorate and the Education Services Agency, on the one hand, and the Flemish Education Council, on the other. The Flemish government's Council of Ministers of 10 April 2020 approved the professional qualification Fire Weather and Surveillance Agent. The professional qualification Soldier/Matroos had already been approved. The next steps of the procedure are the signing of the Agreement in September 2020, the school programme applications, by 30 November 2020 at the latest, and the drawing up of the curricula, by 31 January 2021 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for this specific timing. I understand that it is effectively intended to introduce a completely new training course in the third degree and that it is therefore not a supplement to the existing training course Integrated Safety in the seventh year, to which you referred. You are also talking about the procedure to be followed. I would like to urge the DOD to take a very active role in this dossier. You are trying to show that this is the case, but I would like to stress that there is still a lot of work to be done if we want to start and prepare the schools properly in order to be able to offer this training. It will not be enough to remove the legal obstacles and issue a brochure. There will be a lot involved and there will need to be good cooperation between the various actors, in particular the Flemish Ministry of Education, the Schools and Defence. Defence is looking forward to this and will have to take an active role.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u93	Mr. President, Minister, on March 18, the 2nd Wing of Florennes and the 10th Wing of Kleine-Brogel had temporarily ceased their training flights. In order to maintain all the necessary qualifications and maintain their current operational level, F-16 units resumed their flights on Thursday, 9 April. In this period of health crisis, do pilots and technicians have the necessary equipment to minimize the risk of spreading the virus? Have any new procedures been written, in particular to respect distancing between staff members? Will the crisis we are experiencing have an impact on the NATO Baltic Air Policing mission in Lithuania to which our F-16s are contributing, as well as on the overflight of Benelux airspace to be carried out by the F-16s of Belgian Defence from 14 May?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u94	Mr. Bombled, Defence's priorities remain the health and well-being of its staff and their families and the continuity of ongoing operational commitments. Defence is doing everything it can to protect its staff. Guidelines have been issued and are systematically adapted to the requirements of the Public Health FPS. Protective equipment had been made available to staff and all measures had been taken to minimize the risk of virus spread and contamination between staff members. Additional guidance was disseminated within the units and based on the recommendations of the Health and Well-Being, on the one hand, and the manufacturer's guidance, on the other. They have also been translated into operational procedures. Following the directives of the federal authorities in the context of the current health crisis, DEAD F-16's missions within the Baltic Air Policing in Lithuania continue continuously. In the same context and under the same conditions, the training flights of our F-16s resumed on 9 April in order to ensure, among other things, the resumption of the Benelux airspace defence mission from 14 May next.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u95	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u96	Mr President, Minister, we have already talked about this together: the missions of aid to the Nation are important for my group, as well as, more broadly, the missions carried out by the medical component of our army. In fact, we had repeatedly regretted that your predecessor's strategic vision, which would still be worth a few years if it was not reworked, did not give the importance it should have to those missions. The crisis of the coronavirus shows once again how far it is to resort to all the necessary human and material expertise and capabilities that are relevant to the various levers of action of our State to deal with it. With this in mind, Defence has an essential and vital role to play. Minister, you have already provided us with a great deal of information. I thank you for that. At the beginning of the sitting, my colleagues kept saying that you answered the questions scrupulously and in detail. I associate myself with these remarks, which indicate the quality work that you and your firm are doing in connection with the crisis we are going through. Beyond the information available to me, could you tell me what capacity is deployed or deployable in the short and medium term to support the civilian authorities and hospitals who would request it? What instructions do you have or intend to give to the staff in this context? Finally, is European solidarity envisaged? Will initiatives be taken in this direction within the European Council? It seems to me essential to address this European cooperation in the context of aid to the nation. This is one way of bringing Europe closer to its fellow citizens, especially at a time when the crisis of the coronavirus only exacerbates the phenomenon of mistrust of the institutions and the apparent inability of Europe to speak with one voice in many areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u97	Mr. Chair, Minister, Defence is active in the fight against VOCID-19. If Defence medical capabilities are engaged at the request of Public Health, other capabilities include requests from provincial governors to the National Crisis Centre. These commitments are mainly for logistical interventions. These interventions are quite broad: this may concern the support of residents of nursing homes or nursing homes for their walks or the development of infrastructure for visits to these establishments, etc. If Defence assistance is unanimously appreciated, could the procedure for obtaining such assistance not be relaxed? In other words, would provincial governors not be able to directly manage a defence team for ad hoc missions, in agreement with provincial military commanders? Could this not lead to better responsiveness and shorter recruitment times for military personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u98	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lacroix, Mr. Bombled, the number of military personnel deployed in the fight against coronavirus varies from day to day. In the medical field, two ambulances with personnel from the Queen Astrid Military Hospital are deployed to centre 112 for the transport of VOCID-19 patients. The capacity of the Major Burns Centre and the surgical capacity of the Military Hospital have been increased to allow other hospitals to focus on VOCID-19 patients. As part of the Death Management project, a storage capacity of 27 deceased people was created on the Royal Military Hospital site for Phase 1, as well as a mobile VIC morgue. In the event of a phase 2 activation, the Ministry of Defence shall make available a hangar capable of holding ten 20-foot refrigerated containers. Five respirators were loaned to civilian hospitals. From March 31 to April 9, an RNA and DNA extraction device was loaned to the Institute of Tropical Medicine. In addition to the four additional medical planners sent to FPS Public Health, Defence personnel are engaged in-house to assess ongoing support to the Nation. During the weekend of 18 and 19 April, the list of applications for national support for nursing and nursing homes in Wallonia was assessed. In response, the Defence engaged staff in several nursing and nursing homes, based on the results of the VOCID-19 tests and the analysis of the lists of Flemish accommodation centres and the Brussels-Capital Region. This deployment could intensify. Defence also plans to deploy intermediate care capacity for the prison system in Vilvorde if the situation so requires. At the beginning of the crisis, Defence ensured with its partners the transfer of medical goods to a warehouse in Puisie. At the request of the authorities, the Defence took over part of the organization of the distribution of these assets. The personnel, infrastructure and rolling stock of the Ministry of Defence have been deployed for this purpose. Soon, Defence will also support the testing of imported masks. For procurement in critical countries, the Ministry of Defence has temporarily made available its procurement specialists. Material support was provided to Mol Hospital for the establishment of a triage area. Equipment ranging from blankets and mattresses to a shower container was provided to help the homeless in Liège, Saint-Trond and Arlon. In Ghent, five disinfection sprinklers were delivered to the Centrum fire zone. Finally, the Ministry of Defence contributed to the repatriation of compatriots on seven flights. The European Treaties provide for two mechanisms of solidarity. The first, resulting from Article 42.7 of the Treaty on European Union, is a clause on collective defence and mutual assistance between Member States in the case of armed aggression. The provisions of this article are therefore not applicable in the fight against VOCID-19. The second, resulting from Article 222 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is a solidarity mechanism which provides for cooperation between the Head of the Union and the Member States if a Member State is the object of a terrorist attack or the victim of a natural or man-made disaster. It is this mechanism that could be activated in the fight against VOCID-19. This Article shall only be activated if a Member State so requests after all the means available to it at national and European level have proved insufficient to cope with the disaster affecting it. The way in which the implementation of the European tools, when Article 222 is activated, works, is governed by the Council Decision of 24 June 2014 on the arrangements for the use by the Union of the solidarity clause. However, this mechanism can only be activated if a Member State so requests and there is a political agreement between the Member States to do so. Defence remains ready to offer its assistance, while continuing its operational commitments both abroad and in the national territory. As part of a federal phase, Defence support is coordinated federally. Defence is in constant contact with the National Crisis Centre and the Department of Public Health to ensure a centralized overview of resources and needs. Liaison officers also cooperate with the Public Health FPS to coordinate (...) in consultation with hygiene inspectors in the context of requests for support. Given these necessary coordination aspects, local authorities cannot address their requests directly to the Defence, except for limited and ad hoc contributions. Defence participates in federal and provincial crisis consultations in order to respond quickly to requests for support and provide appropriate advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u99	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. That said, you have detailed the solidarity mechanism that can be triggered at the request of a Member State of the European Union. This mechanism was put in place in 2014 when we are today in 2020 and we have to deal with the coronavirus crisis. You have detailed the application, but also the limits. It will therefore be necessary to look urgently at how this agreement can be groomed, because it seems to me to be relatively weak. It also requires a request from a particular State and, no doubt, an agreement from the other Member States in the context of solidarity. Perhaps we could speed up the process and think about how European solidarity works, as part of a policy of enhanced cooperation with certain Member States. I would also like to thank the women and men who make up National Defence from the bottom of my heart through you. Indeed, the budget of this department, particularly in the area of human resources, has been the subject of clear cuts for many years. Nevertheless, they are there when we need them. Minister, I therefore encourage you to continue along this path. We will certainly have to look at your predecessor's strategic vision, so that assistance to the Nation is one of its pillars. It must be remembered that, during the previous legislature, it was sometimes envisaged to entrust the private with the medical accompaniment of certain missions and even to abolish the Military Hospital of Neder-Over-Heembeek. I know that, like your party, you do not share these views. In any case, we need to make an appointment to review this file in order to develop a new strategic vision that can be extracted from a materialistic vision of National Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u100	Minister, thank you for your answers. Consideration should be given to making certain procedures more flexible and allowing provincial authorities to make more direct use of their respective commanders. In any case, I thank you very much for the assistance provided by Defence to the provincial authorities and VOCID.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u101	Minister, I would like to learn more about the NATO Defence Ministers' meeting on the responses to the Coronavirus crisis that took place on April 15. As you know, the Atlantic Alliance is participating with its own means in efforts to combat the VOCID-19 pandemic. This includes the sharing of good practices among the Allies, the provision of personnel or medical equipment or the fight against misinformation in the face of this virus. As this pandemic knows no borders, it is essential that coordination be established between the Alliance and other international bodies, be it the European Union, the United Nations or WHO. Minister, what is your assessment of the measures already taken at this meeting? Have any other cooperation been decided on the fight against the virus? What about the collaboration between NATO and other international organizations on this subject (European Union, UN, WHO, etc.)?( )? Is there coordination with measures taken at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u102	Mr President, I remain available and I hope that we will exhaust the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u103	It's good that you can stay for all the questions. My last two questions could possibly be dealt with at another meeting, but I think it is particularly important that we certainly get to the questions concerning the order of the mouth masks. It certainly makes sense to deal with these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u104	Mr President, that is not a problem for me. I've got time for that. Mr Bayet, the VOCID-19 pandemic is an unprecedented challenge for the Alliance's member countries. So this is a time when our resilience is being tested. Our armed forces play a key role in supporting national civilian efforts, including in the health sector. Already in early April, NATO's supreme commander, General Wolters, was responsible for coordinating military support. In mid-April, Alliance-wide military forces conducted more than 100 missions to transport medical personnel and supplies, facilitate the construction of 25 field hospitals and add more than 25,000 treatment beds. More than 4,000 military medical personnel have also been deployed to support civilian efforts. NATO's NSPA brings together procurement requests from Member States and allows us to take advantage of its technical expertise and the scale advantages for the purchase of virus protection equipment. In addition, in coordination with Eurocontrol, a dedicated NATO call sign is now used for military relief flights. The first of these flights took place on April 10, 2020, during the Rapid Air Mobility initiative. This facilitated the delivery of medical supplies and protective equipment from Turkey to the United Kingdom. Alliance forces remain vigilant and ready to respond to any threat. That is why the Foreign Ministers addressed the challenge of misinformation and propaganda at their meeting on 2 April. The Defence Ministers also agreed on closer cooperation with the European Union in identifying, monitoring and exposing misinformation. They also adopted a set of recommendations to strengthen our resilience, and reviewed the level of civilian preparedness requirements. In the area of cooperation within the Alliance, the NATO Euro-Atlantic Disaster Response Coordination Centre is an important tool that helps provide relief to the Allies. This is NATO's main civil emergency response mechanism in the Euro-Atlantic area. The Centre operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, coordinating requests for assistance from NATO Allies and partners, as well as offers of assistance to deal with the consequences of major crises such as the VOCID-19 pandemic. In addition to the coordinating role entrusted to the Centre, the European Union has chosen to create a task force within the European Union, Military Staff, to facilitate the exchange of information and gather best practices. The two initiatives are therefore distinct in their objectives and have their own raison d'être. In addition, the organisations do not have the same Member States. But coordination between the European Union and NATO has never been more important. Finally, cooperation between NATO and other major international organizations is part of the framework of pre-existing agreements, such as its observer status in the OSCE or its relations with the United Nations, as described in the joint declaration between NATO and the United Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u105	Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u106	Mr President, Minister, the subject may have been mentioned a little in the joint questions on the F-16 and Iraq. However, I ask my question. At the beginning of March, Defence indicated that it was looking forward to a decision by the government, no later than the summer, on the possible involvement of F-16 in the sky of Iraq and Syria. Indeed, the allies of the international coalition mobilized against Daesh have asked Belgium to hire combat aircraft. Minister, do we know more? In what specific framework and on what agenda should our country intervene according to the demands of the international coalition? In terms of timing, at the government level, what is the status of the decision-making process and will the House be involved in it? It seems fundamental to me to point that out. Finally, in the continuation of this question and in view of the development of the situation on the ground, could you give me an update on Belgian participation in the various plans in this coalition?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u107	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, as foreseen in the 2020 Operations Plan approved by the Council of Ministers and presented to the Foreign Missions Monitoring Committee and the Defence Committee, the Defence is planning the renewal of Belgian participation in air operations in support of the international coalition against Daesh. At the latter's request, our country should hire four F-16s with their support detachment at the end of 2020 for a period of one year. This Belgian contribution would be part of the international mission "Inherent Resolve" which includes the military operations of the international coalition. The specific dossier on this commitment will very soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Given the current political situation, Parliament will also be involved in the decision-making process. Currently, the Belgian presence in the international coalition against Daesh is limited to a number of staff officers and liaison officers in the various headquarters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u108	Minister, you reassure me because you have just said that Parliament would be involved in decision-making. You said it was in view of the political situation at the moment. I, of course, plead for Parliament to be systematically involved in this type of decision, but we will have the opportunity to discuss it again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u109	Mr President, I would like to make a point. I agree with Mr Lacroix. I believe that the more debate and interaction with Parliament, the better it is for our democracy and our functioning. There is obviously no difficulty with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u110	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have recently asked you about the measures your department has put in place to protect military and civilian personnel in the field, particularly in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. Indeed, while some people working for the defence can do telework, this is not the case for a whole part of the personnel whose tasks are part of the essential functions of the army or people who are engaged in missions to assist the nation. As such, we can once again welcome the work of our military in this context. Therefore, in connection with the last exchange that we have had on this subject, I would like to ask you, minister, the following questions. During our last exchange, you informed me that Defence was updating its measures according to the directives of the Public Health FPS. Have any new arrangements been made, given that the role of Defence in this crisis has changed since then? The difficulties in supplying protective equipment do not spare Defence. You then told me that this material was distributed "according to the priorities set by the staff and used in the most efficient way possible". In this context, what are the criteria for setting these priorities? What is the state of affairs today? Finally, I would like to return to our military deployed abroad as part of our international cooperation, particularly in Den Helder, or in operations abroad. Here too, could you give me a statement of the situation and the arrangements that are being made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u111	Mr President, Mr Bayet, with regard to your last question on protective measures, there are no major developments. The Defence continues to follow the directives of the federal authorities. The situation remains closely monitored and the guidelines are systematically adapted to the requirements of the Public Health FPS. Staff have the necessary means of protection. Before the operational commitment, a check is carried out 14 days before the deployment, but also on the day of departure. If necessary, the personnel are seen by a doctor. I also refer to the minutes that have been sent to the members of the Defence Committee in recent weeks and that provide more details on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u112	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u113	Mr Minister, I was able to read in the press that the Belgian intelligence services warn in a joint note against the dissemination of false information about VOCID-19 by extremist groups or countries, mainly Russia, who are accused of wanting to weaken Europe and to divide our public opinion. In the collimator of the State Security and the SGRS include extreme right-wing groups spreading conspiracy theories through social media and "a Kremlin strategy" to undermine the social cohesion of our European countries via social networks. In a context where the use of new technologies is massive at this time, the more structural issues of protecting the scientific and economic potential of many countries are of course also predominant. Minister, what follow-up and means will be given to the Belgian intelligence services – in this case the SGRS – to deal with the worrying points raised in this note as published? What coordination is in place to deal with it, not least with your other federal colleagues but also with federated entities? Has this coordination evolved since my previous question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u114	Mr President, Minister, Mr Lacroix has already referred to the fact that on Tuesday 21 April 2020 we met with the State Security Note on the use of disinformation during the corona crisis with the aim of playing out population groups against each other. Following this threat, the VVSSE and the ADIV decided to set up a division of labour and a permanent consultation. Given the importance of clear communication and the threat posed by disinformation in the current circumstances, I naturally welcome the streamlining between these two bodies and their response. Nor is it the first time we have faced such aggression. During the last European and federal elections, we saw the use of various disinformation campaigns to undermine our democracy and to attack public confidence. The European Commission also supports the danger. It took action in March 2015 to address such campaigns through the launch of the East StratCom Task Force. Given the urgency, seriousness and persistence of this threat to our democracy, I would like to ask you a number of questions. Given the status of Brussels as a European capital, close cooperation with the European institutions seems logical. Are we already working with the European Commission? If so, will we continue to cooperate even after the corona crisis? The NATO response to the threat is coordinated from the StratCom Centre. Can the centre play a role in this? Are we working sufficiently with the Centre at the moment, as we are not even members? From the response of not only Belgium, we find that the whole Western world is actually more reactive to such disinformation. Would Belgium not be able to play a proactive role abroad in promoting our values and countering disinformation? Finally, given the success of the cooperation between VVSSE and ADIV, it would be advisable to consider further cooperation with Defence in the field of hybrid threats. Can the extension of our Defense Task Package to protection against hybrid threats be part of our approach in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u115	Mr Lacroix, mijnheer Delvaux, the two intelligence services have cared about the malicious exploitation that some foreign powers and some extreme right-wing groups active in Belgium can make of the VOCID-19 pandemic. This investigation resulted in the note you are referring to, which is a good proof of the responsiveness of our services. With regard to follow-up, constant monitoring will continue. While it is not a question of examining all false information about this disease, the intelligence services will continue to collect and analyse propaganda and disinformation activities related to threats of interference and extremism. Attention will focus mainly on Belgium and national interests. The intelligence services reserve the right to take the necessary obstruction measures, for example by notifying suspicious accounts to social media operators. In the cyber domain, the SGRS makes available to the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) the technical data collected. Since the coordination you mention is linked to Plan R (plan of action against radicalism) under the leadership of the OCAM, itself dependent on the Justice and Interior FPS, it is not for me to answer you in this regard. I therefore refer you to the relevant ministers. Cooperation with the European institutions has been very extensive and is carried out through the Rapid Alert System and the Integrated Political Crisis Response Mechanism. On 28 January 2020, the COVID-19 platform was activated within the IPCR. This platform ensures coordination of the crisis at the highest possible political level and allows the sharing of information. The International Crisis Management Cell of the National Crisis Centre has also shared access to the information on different NATO fora. In addition, the ADIV exchanges information with the intelligence industry of the European Union Military Staff, one of the two intelligence agencies within the European External Action Service. The threat of the disinformation campaign was also recognised by NATO as a threat to the alliance and its values. An important role against this threat is borne by the Centre of Excellence for Strategic Communications, which supports NATO with its expertise. However, the NATO Centre of Excellence for Strategic Communications does not fall within NATO's command structure and does not have competence to coordinate responses from NATO Member States. Indeed, Belgium is not one of the nations contributing to the aforementioned Centre of Excellence, but our country is indirectly supporting NATO through other Centres of Excellence, of which our country is a member. Indeed, the importance of a policy that defends and promotes our values, including in order to counter disinformation, cannot be overestimated. A few years ago, therefore, a new staff department, the Directorate-General for Strategic Communications, was set up, responsible for developing and implementing an internal and external communication policy. However, this department has no jurisdiction outside of Defense. The countering of fake news is also not part of the mandate of intelligence services. This should be dealt with in the framework of inter-departmental cooperation. The Civil Military Engagement Group has neither the mandate nor the means to be deployed on national territory in the context of information warfare. The limited resources available to CIMEG should be used as a matter of priority for external operations and the protection of Belgian detachments on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u116	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u117	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u118	Mr Delvaux, on behalf of the committee, I would like to congratulate you on your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u119	Minister, the Coronavirus crisis puts us in an exceptional situation. In addition to the economic costs of the measures taken to combat this pandemic, this crisis highlights the urgent need to refinance and strengthen health care and social security in order to make these systems more resilient and effective. This should allow us not only to prepare ourselves for a next wave of contamination of coronavirus, but also for the very probable health and climate crises that are to come. Based on this finding, it seems reasonable to reconsider and potentially terminate or suspend the contract for the purchase of 34 F-35 combat aircraft from the U.S. government, signed by our government on October 27, 2018. Despite previous requests from Parliament, however, the government has neither made the contract in question public nor provided much concrete information on the specific terms and conditions of the contract. Parliament has no information on the deadlines for the spread of the various cost items or a detailed overview of the costs themselves. Finally, we are not aware of the terms of termination or suspension provided for in this contract. As part of Parliament's oversight function, and in view of the extreme urgency of the current budgetary situation, we would therefore urge the Minister to inform Parliament of the details and conditions of this contract. In order to enable Parliament to exercise its control function fully, we call for access, in addition to the contract itself, to a series of documents contained in the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u120	Ms Moscufo, the acquisition of the new combat air capability is part of a government agreement entitled Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), which is implemented through a letter of offer and acceptance communicated by the US government. At the time, the Special Commission on Military Purchases and Sales was able to consult the F-35 aircraft procurement file, including the MOU and other related documents. In addition, since this is a record of information the disclosure of which could affect the military security of the Nation, the exercise of the powers of the commission was entrusted, at the request of the commission, to officials of the Court of Auditors who have the security clearance. This exercise took place and the Court of Auditors reported to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u121	Minister, thank you for this information. I myself have sent a request to the Court of Auditors for information on the matter. I also take this question to say that the request for suspension of these contracts is also relayed by more than 60 Belgian associations and organisations which have published a white card. They insist and highlight the contradiction already at the time between the investments that had not been made at the level of social security but on the other hand in the army. They put even more emphasis on the situation today, by explicitly asking the government to cancel the contracts, through a petition that we will obviously relay as a party. We see that the political will of the government is not that. We regret it and denounce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u122	Minister, last Friday, during the press conference of the National Security Council, the Prime Minister announced that wearing the mask would be mandatory on public transport from 4 May for 12 years and older. The federal government and the federated entities then committed themselves to ensuring that every citizen would receive a gilded fabric mask free of charge. In this long saga of the provision of masks to the population by the federal authority, it was learned yesterday that the Defence would have been commissioned by the federal government to buy and distribute twelve million masks made of fabric. Minister, can we learn more about the details of this purchase that has been requested from Defence both in terms of the market being launched, the mask model in question, the supplier(s), the logistics, and the order, receipt and distribution schedule? What are the objectives of this initiative and what does this figure of 12 million units correspond to? Is this initiative coordinated with other levels of government that have also taken initiatives in this area? Will Defence's own capabilities be mobilized within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u123	Minister, the mouth masks are very important. I read in the press that you confirmed that the order of the mouth masks would go through the Department of Defense. What is the timing of delivery? In what way will the delivery happen to the people? I read that many provinces and municipalities announce that they will provide mouth masks for their citizens. How does that relate to this order? Are those separate orders? Are there any connections between the municipalities and the military? I think that we should avoid chaos, that there are far too many mouth masks or worse, that no one knows what's going on. Mr President, since I am also on another committee, I would like to ask my next question. 5505560C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u124	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Verduyckt converted 5505560C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u125	Mr President, Mr Minister, as well as my colleagues, I am somewhat concerned about this poor coordination. We are the fourth minister who speaks to us about mask orders, and who receives this competence. We learned that only a day ago in the press and through your intervention on the television set last night. We can no longer see very clearly. That is why I would like some clarification. I will try not to repeat what my colleagues have said before. I will turn directly to my specific questions. Will this issue be dealt with in the Military Procurement Committee? Will you articulate this distribution with the different levels of power that have already taken the same initiative for a long time? I'm afraid these twelve million masks aren't "necessary." Maybe that's not the right word, but aren't we going to see some kind of duplication? Who are they going to go to? Where did that figure come from? How will the market be launched? Where are we going to find them? We know the market is completely saturated. It's April 29. We have a plan for a forecast definity which is to begin on 4 May. We've wasted enough time. I hope you will react very quickly, and be able to answer all these questions. I'm not asking them, it's the citizens. I know that other colleagues have already asked the same questions to Minister Geens and Minister De Block, who do not have the answers. I hope that, as with all our other questions, you will be able to provide us with some clarification in this matter, which I believe is a real vaudeville. It is a real lack of respect for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Monday evening's electronic Council of Ministers has indeed asked the Defence to carry out an urgent market for the delivery, first of all, of twelve million tissue oral masks for the Belgian population. The procurement process is currently under way. It is therefore not possible for us, at the moment, to give more details on the delivery time, not on the supplier, nor on the price until the final result is known. We are currently at the research stage. A delivery period cannot currently be given. In any case, it is intended to have sufficient masks as soon as possible. Defence will participate in activities necessary for the delivery of masks. With regard to coordination with other levels of government, Defence will assume the role of procurement centre at the federal level. It will be open to the Regions to use the framework agreement. As I have recalled in other circumstances, for assistance to the Nation in the broad sense, Defence has always been available when its services have been requested – as is now the case with fabric masks. We are working to provide a satisfactory response to the government's request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u127	Mr Minister, thank you, although we do not know much more. So we have no choice but to trust you. This is not a problem in itself, but I would like to draw your attention to the motion for a resolution that we have introduced on the future of defence assistance missions. We regret the mistake that was made during the former legislature by disinvesting in several military capabilities such as the Nivelles military pharmacy, all the more so since they could have served well today. A second mistake of the previous government must also be corrected, namely the destruction of strategic stocks. In the meantime, Minister, we trust you in the hope that you will find solutions for the benefit of all citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u128	Mr Minister, thank you for the answer, which I will have to read out, because I was also following the work in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u129	Minister, thank you for your answer, although we do not yet know much more. Of course, I trust you to carry out this mission that you have been assigned. I hope that you will not fail to communicate with the committee via the notes you give us almost weekly. I hope that with these notes we will be able to obtain more precise information. I thank you, in any case, for your investment in this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u130	Minister, I agree with Mrs Chanson's question to systematically provide us with as complete a note as possible containing the latest information, including on mouth masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic162x.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been mentioned, I should like to ask you a question. Mr Verduyckt converted to a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 5505583C and 5505584C were postponed to another meeting.
