ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u1	Mrs Vanrobaeys, I will also answer Mrs Vindevoghel's question, since it is a combined question. As far as the increased poverty risks of older women are concerned, I am fully aware that the pension gap is a problem that certainly requires our attention. The inequality in pensions is in fact the effect of gender inequality on the labour market in recent decades, which continues to work for a very long time. Therefore, good safety nets are essential in order to adequately address the problem of low pensions and poorly built rights. The IGA, the income guarantee for the elderly, is intended to provide sufficient resources for the elderly and to protect them from a possible poverty trap. Although the scheme is neutral, more women than men are dependent on it. Any change in pension policy has a gender impact. This does not, of course, mean that no pension policy can be pursued. It is important that the resources provided should reach the right people, who are also entitled to do so. In this sense, checks to ensure compliance are justified, but they must not lead to women becoming socially isolated in precarious living conditions. On 3 March, my cabinet received a collective of associations and civil movements opposed to the current IGO controls, represented by the Belgian Anti-Poverty Network. I understand the collective's request to review the current control procedure. A balance must be sought between the freedom to move and the expectation of the government that people receiving welfare benefits will stay in Belgium. The audit procedure would be evaluated in Parliament. I refer to the hearing on the new residence control for IGO beneficiaries on 3 March 2020. At this hearing representatives of the FPD, SIOD, bpost, la Fédération des CPAS de Wallonie, the League for Human Rights and BAPN were heard. This hearing was a positive step in the evaluation of the control procedure. At present, the control procedure has been suspended in view of the control measures. I trust that my colleague, the Minister for Pensions, will share the same objectives as I do and will also examine any problems arising from the new IGO control procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u2	Madam Minister, the new control procedure on the IGO does indeed have an important impact on women. From the parliamentary documents I was not an elected Member at the time, I conclude that at that time there was mainly the perception of possible abuses by people with provisional residence documents, which led to a considerable tightening of the control procedure. At that time, poverty organisations pointed out that only a small proportion of the people with provisional residence permits are using the IGO, because they are not sufficiently informed and are afraid to submit an application. The greatest impact of the control procedure is therefore indeed on women, as 65% of women live on an IGO. On top of that, the career conditions in the pension scheme are tightened, affecting even more women than before. It is true that an evaluation must follow from the hearing in Parliament. Meanwhile, the figures for the wage gap are also known, showing that the wage gap has still not changed. On the contrary, the gap even increases to 23.7%. This obviously has implications for the pension gap. We certainly intend to continue the work on this control procedure in Parliament. Misuse must of course be eliminated, but control must be human and gender-neutral, so that women, if they do not meet the career conditions, can still live on their pensions in dignity. In addition, measures need to be taken in the future to reduce the pension gap and the pay gap. We are thinking of good, quality jobs, but also of birth leave. We also want to continue to work towards a balanced division of labour and the reconciliation of work and family life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u3	Joined Questions No 55003691C by Mr Hedebouw, No 55003692C by Mr Mertens and No 55003693C by Mrs Vindevoghel are transformed into written questions. Question No 55003777C by Mr D'Amico is postponed. Question No 55004219C by Mrs Soors is not applicable. Question No 55005332C by Mrs Matz is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u4	Madam Minister, I would like to talk about the Rainbow Europe Map and Index, which makes an annual ranking and benchmark of European countries in the field of equal opportunities and human rights of Igbtis. Belgium traditionally scores high, with 73 %, the second highest ranking after Malta. It is suggested that we would work in Belgium around the intersex individuals. That's one of Rainbow Europe Map's suggestions. I know that's what you're doing. We have also taken an initiative in Parliament. By the way, we had a very interesting hearing on Monday. In addition, there are the figures for Unia, and that is something that worries me. In 2019, Unia recorded a record number of files on discriminations against holebi's, 133. Most of the files involved incidents at work. Moreover, the corona crisis now shows that there is still a great need for public awareness. There is a clear increase in intra-family violence, as we already knew and what we have been talking about, but also violence against young Holebi's. Unia points out that awareness needs to start early, at school and in business. Are you currently planning actions, in the short and long term, specifically towards schools and businesses, themselves or with the other ministers from the Länder? This seems particularly necessary to me if we are to correctly interpret the rising figures of Unia. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, the fact that there was a record number of reports concerning discrimination against holebis at Unia is, of course, a sign that urgent action is needed. Nevertheless, I see this as a positive signal, namely that more and more victims of discrimination based on sexual orientation find their way to Unia and report discrimination. With regard to intra-family violence against young Holebis during the corona crisis, I can tell you that domestic violence is an important point of attention. For example, police and justice have stressed that tackling domestic violence remains a priority and will be treated with urgency. In addition, information was disseminated on the various services and centres that can provide assistance in the event of intra-family violence and the support lines were strengthened. My predecessor has already taken several initiatives on discrimination in the workplace, such as the law on mystery calls against discrimination in the labour market. A Royal Decree was also adopted that allows for positive actions by private companies. I also consider it important to continue to involve trade unions and employers' organisations in the Igbti+ policy in the workplace when developing policies. They know the workplace well and can assess what actions can be useful. We are also working on the layout of an Igbti charter for companies. This includes a number of commitments that companies can sign to achieve more inclusion in the workplace. This charter can also be tailored to SMEs. The first steps towards such a charter were taken. For example, my predecessor sent a letter to the various sectors asking whether they would like to participate and whether the captains or industry are willing to sign it. Many sectors responded that they had discussed the issue of our question and were able to take action in their sector. Raising awareness of this issue and of its own initiatives is fundamental in this regard. For example, the charter can encourage companies to provide training on an inclusive workplace for a member of their HR department. In that training they get tips with which they can get started right away. I am thinking, for example, of more inclusive vacancies, women-man-x instead of male-woman, or of the company's presentation of the specific notification that the company selects candidates based on their qualities, regardless of their gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, origin, age or limitation. Soon I will also publish an accessible information brochure for parents of intersex children. With this we want to give information to parents and anyone who has questions about the subject. Does my kid need surgery? Will the child fall in love with boys or girls? Will it be able to have children of its own? Is their child male, female or x? The brochure answers all these questions. From birth onwards, intersex persons are victims of ignorance, stereotypes and discrimination. By removing the issue from the taboo sphere, we want to change it. In addition, we have also developed informative animations for young people explaining what intersex means. Those videos should also help to further sensitise society about this theme. In order to address discrimination against Igbti+ individuals, a cross-cutting policy supported by all levels of policy is necessary. For this reason, the development of a new inter-federal action plan is also essential. The previous action plan ended at the end of the previous legislative period, in May 2019. It was thoroughly evaluated and an internal note was drawn up containing all kinds of useful recommendations for a subsequent plan. My administration is busy preparing the new plan. I therefore hope that the next government will take it to heart and translate the commitments that I and my administration make into policy actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u6	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. As far as intersex is concerned, I am glad to hear that the brochure has now been completed. That's what it takes. We were told that very clearly on Monday. There are still a few resolutions pending in Parliament which contain a number of other tips, but I am pleased to hear that you are continuing to do so. On the subject of discrimination in the workplace, I would urge that in the long term trade unions and employers' organisations remain involved. Good cooperation between the trade unions and employers is necessary for such matters. The transversal story and the interfederal action plan are most important. The previous inter-federal action plan ended a year ago. I'm glad to hear you've been working on it. Of course, it's hard for me to throw a stone now. Due to the chaos after the elections and the subsequent corona crisis, I can imagine that there is a delay, but I would urge that we proceed as far and as concretely as possible, so that the new action plan is ready for the possible new minister. When we get there, we will have had to do it one and a half years without an inter-federal action plan. That's not good. The numbers of intra-family violence prove that. During this corona crisis too, perhaps even more than usual, we must focus very hard on the problem of Igbtis, but I know that we find you a supporter of this. I can only encourage you to do this very quickly and very concretely, so that the next minister will only have to accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u7	I fully follow you, but it is of course very difficult for me to come up with a new plan at the end, before a re-launch of a full government can work on this issue. I can only tell you that my administration, and also my policy cell, is taking all these initiatives, not only for this, but also for a National Action Plan Gender-related Violence and an Action Plan against Racism. Our administrations are fully engaged in the preparatory work, so that a next government should actually take it up and hopefully realize as much of what we are preparing now as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u8	Questions Nos 55003916C by Mrs Willaert, Nos 55004430C by Mrs Thémont and 55006283C by Mr Willaert. Van Hecke is transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u9	Madam President, Madam Minister, the National Security Council of June 3 decided to begin an important phase of our deconfination, namely that as of June 8, the principle would be authorization, except as expressly prohibited. As a result, if prostitution is not included in the categories of explicitly prohibited activities, such as contact sports, prostitution was resumed on 8 June. This change is of great concern to field associations with regard to the impact on public health that prostitution could have if no health measures are put in place, since the very nature of the activity makes it impossible to respect the rules of social distancing. No health protocol has yet been communicated to the sector concerned and to the municipal authorities concerning the resumption of prostitution. However, this activity concerns 30,000 people who cannot wait until the next step of the deconfinement (on 1 July) to resume their activities and thus regain their means of subsistence and safety. Indeed, if prostitutes in principle have access to social assistance – this is the information you gave me in the Health Committee on 8 May – this access seems extremely difficult in practice. Therefore, Madam Minister, could you please let me know whether prostitution activities are included in the term non-therapeutic massages and are, therefore, allowed to resume on 8 June and whether, in the absence of such activities, they are nevertheless considered to be authorized activities? If not, how is access to social assistance effectively guaranteed to all prostitutes who cannot resume their activities? Is an awareness-raising campaign planned in consultation with the federated entities to inform prostitutes of the availability of social assistance or urgent medical assistance? Can you also let me know whether social assistance and emergency medical aid, apart from those who are prostitutes, can benefit from other alternative income such as temporary unemployment or bridge law? Finally, can prostitutes without a legal residence permit be granted social assistance? If so, in other words, if prostitution was actually resumed on Monday, is there a special protocol or specific instructions on health precautions to be taken to ensure the safety of prostitutes and citizens who use their services? More generally, has consultation with federated entities been established to develop programmes to leave prostitution? Indeed, it appeared that, during confinement, many people turned to associations in order to get out of the trap of prostitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u10	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, in order to protect public health, prevent and fight against coronavirus, the places of prostitution in the window have been closed and sex work has been prohibited. I realize that this period has been extremely difficult for many sex workers who often do not have a regulated status. These workers often have neither the status of employee nor the status of self-employed. This means that they do not receive social or financial protection. On 3 June, the National Security Council decided to continue the gradual lifting of the quarantine measures. The first important message is that from 8 June, the starting point is different than in previous months, since everything is allowed, except what is still forbidden. As a result, sex workers have been able to resume their activities since then, although the municipalities can still impose restrictions. Cities and municipalities can impose local rules on prostitution. I have found that this is the case in several cities and municipalities. For women who resume their activities, however, precautions should be taken. In consultation with GEES experts, the sector has developed a protocol including precautionary measures such as not admitting clients with symptoms, cleaning door handles, ramps and other surfaces. On questions relating to social assistance for persons without a residence permit, I refer you to my colleague, Mrs De Block. For other questions, I refer you to my colleagues in charge of Justice and Social Integration. As Minister of Employment, I can say that these workers are often not well protected because of lack of status. If they have an employment contract, they can have access to temporary unemployment. If they are independent, if I remember correctly, from an income of 7,000 euros up to 14,000 euros, they can benefit from the bridge right set up by my colleague Ducrame. But they often lack status. That is the problem. So often, CPAS offer solutions, they are, nevertheless, in a very precarious situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. Two things. As far as the health protocol is concerned, I understand that a protocol has been adopted, but to my knowledge it has not yet been communicated to the sector or the municipalities. I think there is a communication problem in this area. I also hear that precautions are going to be taken, that there are still discussions within the EGE, if I understand correctly. Nevertheless, I am astonished that we are deciding on the resumption of our activities by a sector, whereas it is only later that we will consider the precautions which must govern this recovery. I still feel like we're acting upside down. While waiting for this information, people are eventually put at risk. I have a regret about that. On the other hand, I am very pleased to hear your awareness of the lack of status of prostitutes and the fact that they are therefore not in a position to be protected, either physically or socially. I really appeal to you to raise awareness in their turn of your colleagues in the government so that prostitution can finally be removed from the hypocrisy in which it is found today and to give prostitutes a real social status. The idea is not to say that we are for or against prostitution. The idea is to be pragmatic and to guarantee these people a decent standard of living with access, in addition to the social assistance that exists today, to temporary unemployment or to the right bridge. I believe a lot in the sincerity of your remarks. Therefore, I will really ask you to be able to pass it on to your colleagues. I think it is really essential to take into account the great precarisation of these people today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u12	As far as protocol is concerned, it is not up to me or the government to decide. A protocol has been developed by the sector in collaboration with the experts from GEES. This protocol contains the protective measures and was drawn up last week, therefore before 8 June, so that it can be implemented from that date, under safe conditions and with the necessary precautions. As far as the status is concerned, I am aware of the problems, but last night, for example, Flemish television broadcast a report on prostitution. We were able to see several testimonies. Some women had no status, others worked in an ICT company or were independent with a business. There are many very specific statutes. It's kind of like in the event sector with artists. This particular group has many different cases. I am aware that this is a problem for some women who work without a contract or status, but it has nothing to do with VOCID-19. This situation already existed before and I believe that Parliament must be able to debate it, but there are also many women with status who are in prostitution, which makes this issue complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for this very clear supplementary answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u14	Madam President, thank you for your flexibility because I did not expect such a rapid pace. That's a rare fact! My first question was tabled on 24 April. It focused on the position that the government intended to defend at the Interdepartmental Conference (IMC). In view of the time that has elapsed since my question was tabled, I am obliged to adapt my remarks somewhat. Minister, what position did you stand at the Interdepartmental Conference on Women's Rights held on May 8th? My second question concerns the next ICD to be held on 26 June. According to the information available to me, it will deal with violence against women, access to fair remuneration and single parenthood. Can you give me more information about this? I know that the agenda is being drawn up. I would like to know what position you intend to take at this meeting. It must be noted that women have paid a heavy price for this crisis, at various levels, and deconfinity will not necessarily make things right. It is known, for example, that some women had to leave their homes because the situation had become untenable and were housed in hotels requisitioned during confinement. These hotels will now resume their activities. The question now arises as to how we will deal with these situations. In my view, leadership must be provided by the federal government in a lot of matters. The associations also urge you to assume this role by deploying the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u15	Mrs Schlitz, since your question was attached to that of Mrs Vindevoghel – who is not present – a part of my answer was written in Dutch. If you'll excuse me. The Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights met for the first time on 8 May, under the chairmanship of Secretary of State Nawal Ben Hamou of Brussels. I attended with my counterparts in the field of women's rights. The first meeting was preceded by two preparatory meetings, on 2 and 17 April, on the topics of violence against women and quarantine measures. The agenda of the First Interdepartmental Conference also included an assessment of the VOCID-19 pandemic and its impact on women's daily lives. In this context, special attention has been paid to the issue of domestic violence. We agreed that further work was needed to support women at all levels of political power, in the areas of prevention, protection, prosecution, integrated policy and data collection. This means, for example, that awareness-raising campaigns accessible to the general public will continue to be carried out at each level of power, in order to highlight the lines of assistance and support for victims. In terms of protection, as the Federal Minister for Equal Opportunities, I will continue to guarantee access to sexual violence centres every day, 24 hours a day. In addition, I will focus my efforts on the dissemination of this information. As for the figures on domestic violence, telephone helplines and helplines via a cat indicate that they have received more calls about domestic violence since the onset of the coronavirus crisis. The Communities and the Regions carry out regular monitoring of telephone helplines and cat support services. So I'm sending you back to my regional and community counterparts. As for the chatline Sexual Violence, there was also an average of 86 calls per month between September 2019 and March 2020. Since the corona crisis, there has been a marked increase to an average of 136 or 137 calls per month, as an increase of 58 %. In addition, I have allocated more than 80 000 euros to the chat line for victims of sexual violence. The aim is to use this budget to strengthen the service's team. For example, the money will be spent on training cat psychologists and accompanying trauma, increasing the number of individual sessions with an external psychologist and launching a social media campaign to reach vulnerable groups. In addition to the issue of violence against women, I have taken action to incorporate the combination of homework and care for children. At my initiative, parental leave was also adjusted, in addition to the existing leave schemes. I have been able to do so together with Parliament. It applies to parents with children under 12 years of age or parents with disabled children, in order to address the difficulties encountered in combining child care and telework with a view to economic restart. The premiums were also increased by 25%. Foster parents were also added. Both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior are involved in the work of the IMC. They are also aware of the increase in victims of intra-family violence as a result of COVID-19. Police and Justice have stressed that tackling domestic violence remains a priority for them, and will be treated with urgency. For more information, please refer to the press release issued following the Inter-Ministerial Conference. It makes very clear reference to the follow-up of domestic violence during the quarantine period and to the effects. As you rightly say, the next meeting will take place on 26 June. We will work in particular on the issues you have raised. We are currently working in working groups. These start on the 26th; there are still a few weeks left. The proposals that everyone is going to make are not yet clear. Neither is my position. It may be interesting to ask another question about this when we are closer to 26. After the working groups, things will be clearer for me. I will have the subjects and positions on certain topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u16	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I'll come back to you when we're closer to the ICD. I hear your willingness to move forward, especially on sexual violence, which is obviously a major part of violence against women, but which does not represent everything. There must be coordination with your colleagues. If I hear a voluntarist speech in your head, it's not always the case in others. I will also ask Minister De Crem this afternoon about the follow-up to the commitments he made at the last ICD. The recall of victims and perpetrators was part of the commitments and was included in the press release following the ICD. At this point we do not really have news of this commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic203x.u17	Question No 55003472C by Mr Moutquin is transformed into a written question.
