ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On November 22, he died in Ypres Martial Lahaye, honorary member of the Chamber. He was 75. Martial Lahaye was the son of Hilaire Lahaye, Liberal MP for the Ypres arrondissement from 1946 to 1961 and the grandson of Nestor Lahaye, Mayor of Poperinge. In addition to his profession as an insurer, Martial Lahaye became a full-blooded liberal in the PVV at the time. From 1976 to 1994 he was a city council member in his native city of Ypres. In December 1991, Martial Lahaye became a provincial senator for the PVV. From May 1995 to April 2003, he served as a member of the VLD for the district Furnes-Dixmude-Ostende-Ypres. Martial Lahaye was known as an assiduous parliamentarian, who made himself particularly useful, particularly in the National Defence Commission. As he was attached to Ypres and to the Westhoek, Martial Lahaye defended his city and his region at the federal level. Thus he put his shoulders under the files of the army barracks and the prison of Ypres, and worked for years for the extension of the A19 from Ypres to the coast. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With Martial Lahaye we lose a righteous politician, but also a simple and generous man, who always cared about everyone. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his wife and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u4	Madam President, the government agrees with the expressions of condolences to the family and friends of Martial Lahaye. I remember Martial very well. He was a warm and jovial man, someone very direct. That's the image we'll take from him. As the president pointed out, Martial had an unbridled desire for work and was a tractor of a lot of files, which were important to his area, but he didn't forget to enjoy life either. He was a real bon vivant, a real popular liberator. Even after his political career, his door was always open to people seeking help. I think that says everything about his character. It is not surprising that he had many friends with other parties, such as former governor Paul Breyne. In addition to his fine career at national level, he will keep up with us as someone with a huge local commitment to his region, to the Westhoek. He was someone with a real heart for his community. He was very involved in the associative life there, especially through the action of his wife, Katrien Bulens. My thoughts are being addressed to him right now. On behalf of the government, I wish her and the two sons who leave Martial all the strength.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u5	Let us now respect a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2020, you have received an amended agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2020, you received an amended agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to Mrs Rohonyi, I propose that we should be able to give each of the ministers ten minutes for the answers rather than the five traditional ones that I think are too short to be able to respond to all the inquiries, to the number of fourteen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, "one team, 11 million Belgians", your message is strong! But it would be much more so if it were first observed by the members of your government. It is a fact that I had to draw up, a month ago, following the cacophony that surrounded the measures aimed at curbing the second wave of the epidemic. Unfortunately, today's finding has not changed, since just three days after saying that no measures would be relaxed, your majority partners called for a new Consultation Committee in mid-December. Prime Minister, we certainly do not need an umpteenth ego war or an umpteenth cacophony. What we need today is a government that decides according to science and advances behind a single man and not in order scattered with past or potentially future trophies. It's not only indecent, it's confusing. This gives rise to false hopes and, above all, it reduces the population's already so fragile adherence to measures, even though it is known to be indispensable. So much, I think that we need to stay strict on the issue of the social bubble for Christmas to preserve our elders, so much I think that we need to examine, on the basis of recent scientific studies, the question of the contact trades that are accustomed to observing strict health rules and that work by appointment. If you do not, you will have to provide additional support to support these jobs. In all cases, it is urgent to equip this team of 11 million inhabitants with a captain who gathers their support by a clear and rational speech and not by video clips or shock measures. Only then will the measures, even the most difficult ones, be accepted and implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u9	Prime Minister, Minister of Public Health, here we are! You announced the first vaccines for January 5. The light finally appears at the end of the tunnel. It feels good! We have not excelled in testing, tracing and mask management. So, please, Prime Minister, let's try to do a no-fault in the management of vaccination! We are in the leading European platoon and we must stay there. The vaccination plan represents a logistical challenge in terms of communication, but above all of trust between the population and us. This confidence is gained through transparency in contracts with pharmaceutical companies, in decision-making, in clinical studies, and in all statements of interest in the chain of command. We therefore clearly expect the government to be irreproachable in all these aspects. You laid the foundation for a strategy and set a very clear course, aiming at the vaccination of 70% of the population, that is, a target for the eradication of the virus. However, everyone must be aware that the road to achieving this remains to be defined and of course gives rise to concerns. I'll relay two of them to you. First, many parents are concerned about whether their child should be vaccinated. The strategy speaks of priority audiences. However, for both children and pregnant women, this is not clearly excluded - at least in the note of the vaccination strategy. Second, if the vaccine is not mandatory, it could nevertheless become a condition for working, travelling or participating in certain activities. Who will be responsible for the controls, and how?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u10	Madam President, Ministers, people have made great efforts over the last year. Children suddenly couldn't see his love anymore or but occasionally to school, the younger couldn't see his love for weeks and the novice catering operator saw his dream go up in smoke. One of the worst things is that women and men didn't feel safe at home. So sacrifices have been made in recent months. Whoever thought that summer would be the end of this crisis has become wise because of damage and shame. The measures were lightened a little too quickly and we plunged into a more severe crisis than before. As much as we'd like to, without a vaccine, a return to normal life is impossible. Now, however, there is a view of a vaccine and therefore a way out of the deadlock. The temptation is therefore very great to think that we only have to wait a few weeks until everything can go back to normal. Of course it isn't. Minister, you put it very well in the Journal, they are difficult choices and we will have to divide up the scarcity. This also shows that a careful vaccination program is in good hands with you. I'm thinking of the young people who are physically healthy, but mentally under pressure. They're not at the top of the list, which makes sense. First, care workers, the elderly and the vulnerable. Minister, it would be good if you could explain very clearly why these choices were made. Prime Minister, it is time for a message of hope to the young people who (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u11	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, 2021 will be the year of vaccination. Every day we are flooded with news reports about vaccines, about whom it will be given first and what will ultimately be its effect. However, the key question is whether these vaccines will finally allow us to return to the old normal. Although 2021 will still be a year in which everyone will have to show sufficient caution, the announcement still provides some light in the darkness. Everyone is eagerly looking forward to the strategy to ensure that everyone can be vaccinated as soon as possible. We heard that the vulnerable groups will first be vaccinated, which also makes sense. Also the healthcare professions and the people who are active in the first line are the people we need to vaccinate as a priority. The practical organisation is in the hands of the communities and the regions and is undoubtedly a challenge. Until everyone has been vaccinated, it will be necessary to continue to respect the necessary preventive measures. This presents us with a number of challenges that I would like to ask you about. Is the practical organisation of the vaccination now on the verge of getting started very quickly? Are the communities and the regions ready? Who is being used to vaccinate? After all, it is also a question of sufficient male and female strength. There's also some hopeful news. The Great Corona study has shown that 78% of people are sure or likely to want to be vaccinated. However, one can also look at the reverse. That means we still have to convince one fifth of the population to be vaccinated. Well, that's not very small either. A great deal of information has already been provided online about the vaccines and I would like to ask that these efforts be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u12	Prime Minister, Minister of Health, there are many of us today who are asking you about the vaccination strategy, and that is not a coincidence. This is a reflection of a great concern expressed by Parliament, and more broadly by our fellow citizens about this strategy which they are struggling to identify, except through the information you recently distilled, just two or three hours ago, and which offers some elements of perspective. We are certainly 11 million to be very proud of being presented as the future air hub for the global transport and distribution of vaccines, but I think that many of us are also sceptical about our own country's strategy in this area. According to the adage "none is prophet in his country", we notice by discussing with the citizens a double effect: at the same time, a very great expectation to finally be able to benefit from these vaccines likely to offer an exit from this tunnel, and at the same time, at the same time, a great mistrust of this vaccine. I am personally surprised to see the great reluctance expressed by a large number of Belgians as to whether or not to go for vaccination. I think, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, that there will be beyond the strategy to be clarified, a great effort to have to carry out conviction and pedagogy, otherwise it is not certain that the threshold of 70% can be so easily reached, as scepticism is great. People struggle to believe that the vaccine will not have collateral adverse effects by having been achieved so hastyly compared to many other cases of figures. We must therefore explain, reassure, including on the relevance of our strategy and, above all, on being ready on time and on time. Minister Morréale also announced on 5 January, but Minister Vandenbroucke, not later than in the television news at noon (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u13	Prime Minister, Minister of Health, as in most major epidemics, or in many infectious attacks on humanity, in general, human genius, thanks to the knowledge accumulated by science, has managed to deliver an effective remedy or prevention. Today, in the face of coronavirus, the globalization of intelligence has worked even faster than before. It is in our way of developing the vaccination campaign that the attainment of collective immunity and the return to favourable living conditions, compatible with the physical, psychological, economic and social health of our population and of everyone. The responsibility of Governments is therefore essential in this regard. I would even say the responsibility of each and every one of us. That of all citizens is essential. Like any scientific discovery, like any extremely rapid evolution, the covid vaccine raises legitimate questions. There is a need for frank, clear and unambiguous answers. Clarity is necessary and essential with regard to the scientific processes implemented, the clinical trials carried out, the orders made and the budgets committed. I'd say we have to play vaccines on the table. The population's adherence to the vaccine is the sine qua non for the success of collective immunity. It should be recalled that modern medical history, based on knowledge and critical and rational mind, has saved hundreds of millions of lives through vaccines. My questions are as follows. How are you going to involve front-line caregivers, physicians and pharmacists, who are able to build confidence in the process? That seems to me to be extremely important. I have an attached question. How will citizens understand the type of vaccine they will be given? (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u14	Madam President, Prime Minister, first the catering industry was closed, without it being based on any scientific basis. Then the many traders and shopkeepers, who have been struggling for months, were shocked by one of the derogatory statements made by the man with the job of Minister of Health, namely that it was not really necessary to close the shops, that this was merely a shock effect. Then there were the contact professions. A visit to a prostitute may be possible in this country but a visit to the hairdresser or a beauty salon cannot be. How can they explain their longer compulsory closure, Prime Minister? After the first lockdown, their reopening did not cause rising figures. In the meantime, they have adapted to work perfectly coronaproof. And above all, in all the surrounding countries they are open again. A survey of the sector itself shows that 80% of hairdressers are approached by their customers to do haircuts anyway. In Ekeren even a barber went on hunger strike because he is not allowed to open his business. Mr Prime Minister, do you not think it is better for them to get back to work safely rather than for consumers to cross the border? Finally, in connection with Christmas, a part of your supposedly united team, your French-speaking liberal family, continues to demand additional relaxations. We ask you to be consistent. In view of the gravity of the circumstances, we do not, of course, ask for the reins to be celebrated, but we ask for action to be taken if there are large masses of them, as yesterday in Evere. Prime Minister, we have another question. Is there for the many people who stand for a heartbreaking choice, between either their 84-year-old bomba or leave their 73-year-old father-in-law alone on Christmas Eve, really (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u15	Mr Minister, since August of this year I have been trying, together with a number of colleagues, to find out what our country's vaccination strategy is, but every question about it has been greeted with a "sustainable answer', beginning with that of former Health Minister De Block that it was too early, until your answer last Tuesday in the Health Committee that you realize that it is frustrating, but that you cannot and may not anticipate the facts. In the meantime, the vaccination strategy in our neighbouring countries has already been worked out by the Netherlands, France, the United Kingdom and Germany and, perhaps most importantly, fully developed. In the United Kingdom, vaccines arrive on 7 December and start vaccination in mid-December and in Germany, too, they will start in mid-December. There one will even be able to follow it through an online tool, if I can believe the media. In our country yesterday the Prime Minister proudly announced that we will start vaccination on 5 January, but he did make a move and said that our country is ready on condition that the vaccines are there. That is why I have a number of simple questions, Minister. Will we have enough vaccines on 5 January? Will we also have enough syringes and the right needles to vaccinate people? In short, is there a plan? What is your plan and is the plan ready?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u16	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister for Health, the covid vaccine is now coming. For some people, that finally means some hope, finally the end of the tunnel. But it also raises a lot of questions. We have to be honest, there is a huge distrust of the population about this vaccine. There's no way around that. This is evident from polls and this is also evident from what our doctors of Medicine for the People, who are in daily contact with patients, tell us. Let it be clear, as far as we are concerned, that mistrust is normal. I do not understand how some colleagues suddenly find out. I don't understand how they're suddenly so surprised at this mistrust. Sometimes I wonder which planet some people live on. The pharmaceutical industry has a very bad reputation among people. That industry always thinks about profit. Profit goes for health for them. That nourishes the distrust. The fact that there is now a whole fog around the vaccine contracts nourishes the mistrust even more. Prime Minister, Minister, Test Purchase has contacted you and the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (FAGG) to gain access to contracts with major pharmaceutical companies: AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, CureVac and BioNTech-Pfizer. Actually, we don't know much yet. We know the number of doses we will buy, but there is very little information about the results of the study, and whether those vaccines are working or not. We only know the press releases of the pharmaceutical industry itself. What are the side effects? Who's gonna take responsibility? The European Commission is apparently saying that they could avoid their responsibilities. You have met a great deal with the eight health ministers. But what will be the answer to this distrust of the people is not clear. I come to my questions. The Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products has replied negatively to the question (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u17	Your time is up, Mr Warmoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u18	Madam President, Prime Minister, 5 January 2021, the date we read in the newspapers yesterday will not be a date for our country as usual, because 5 January has become a date of hope for our country and our citizens, as 11 million citizens are waiting for the first steps in our vaccination plan. January 5 is only 33 days away from us. That is why I have some reservations. With our country, we await the opinion of the European Medicines Agency. Until we have that advice, the last go, we cannot yet start the administration and administration of our vaccine. The process from administration to administration of the vaccine becomes a very complex story. The transport must be in order. The vaccine should be stored at correct temperature. Test centres should be transformed into vaccination centres. So we still have a lot of challenges to face. The deadline we have set is very important in this respect. We must ensure that the process is flawless in order to increase confidence in the vaccine for citizens as well. To succeed in our goal, we need a 70 percent vaccination rate. That is why it is important that the course is done flawlessly. Prime Minister, when do you expect the latest opinion from the European Medicines Agency? Do you see that coming in the short term? I understand that it will not be completed until the end of December. How exactly do you see the vaccination strategy? We must ensure that our 11 million citizens and our doctors know who is eligible for the vaccine at what time. We must not just inform doctors about this; we must also inform citizens, in a way that is easily accessible, so that they know where they stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are hurray reports in the media for vaccines and the vaccination strategy. People are euphoric, but there is also mistrust. We've already talked about that. Right now, I'm missing a good response to those two feelings. Unfortunately, it's too early for euphoria. This may give the impression that the worst is already over. We can see light at the end of the tunnel, but we will all have to endure for a long time. Unfortunately, the healthcare sector does not yet have a margin in that narrow tunnel. On the other hand, I also hear a lot of distrust and fear of that vaccine. We can't ignore those two feelings. In the summer 30 to 50 % were not sure if they would be vaccinated. Now, according to studies, that is 20 to 21 %. We need to do something with this. Communication scientists say that at the moment clear and honest communication is the key to increasing acceptance. We need to convince the group of doubters, and that can only be done with clear and honest answers to questions that affect people. These are questions about the effectiveness of the vaccine, for example, if there are only press releases about the developing company. In addition, people ask about the possible side effects. That's what people worry about. What about the pricing? What about the public money that already went into the investigation? What about the data from the patent pool that was approved Chamberwide in the spring. The doubting people need an answer to these questions at the moment. What will you do to increase confidence in the vaccine? How do you want to reach and convince the group that doesn't trust the vaccine at the moment to have it inoculated? How do we deal with the question of greater transparency? What shall we say to that? This concerns transparency about companies, pricing and effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, yesterday you brought good news. You brought hope for many people waiting for the vaccine. Our country will start vaccination on 5 January 2021. That's good news and a challenge at the same time. You have surprised a lot of people positively, including a number of ministers from their own government and the Länder. However, you have mainly surprised the people from the field, those who will have to do the work effectively. As a result of the advice of the High Health Council, which was already available in July 2020, we will first vaccinate the people in the residential care centers and their care staff. It would be very good if we could also vaccinate the people from the covid zone. We need a million vaccines for this, but you tell us that only 600,000 vaccines are available. Why is that, anyway? Didn't we negotiate well? These vaccines are manufactured around the corner. In other countries, the flu vaccination networks will be used. You indicate that in Phase 2 and Phase 3 you will do the same. Have you actually been in contact with the general practitioners, the pharmacists and the nurses? For the registration you want to work with Vaccinenet, the effective system of the Flemish government. Of course, the Flemish government will also be the partner in the development of Vaccinenet with the Walloon friends. However, will you be ready in time? Will you have a registration system, so that each bottle can be traced from the producer to the patient, so that people can be reassured? As has already been mentioned, we will also need many vaccines. Will they really be able to do what they have been trained to do, namely to vaccinate? Will you, for example, engage the event sector to do what it can very well, namely organise and supervise logistics?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u21	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am not going to ask the same question or move forward for the thirteenth time, because half of the questions are in fact put forward by your group. I turn to Minister of Health Vandenbroucke. There are 23 million vaccines ready and about 11 million people need to be vaccinated. I see today you're ready for the new vaccination, but the old one's not over yet. There is a major problem with the current flu vaccine. For example, 2.7 million vaccines were ordered, which had to be delivered in September. That didn't happen. It didn't happen until October. There is now a very serious delay in vaccination. There are priorities and risk groups. I'm getting phones from pharmacists. I speak now from my congregation. There are 400 people on the waiting list to be vaccinated, 90% of whom are at risk. I called a pharmacist from Kortrijk: 132. Lokering, Ghent, Bruges, it's the same everywhere. I am pleased that the new vaccine is here, and I will not make any reservations about that now. The current situation with regard to the current flu vaccine is becoming somewhat dramatic. Before you start on the following, I think this should be finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u22	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, the vaccine race has been underway for many months. Expedited approval procedures are intensifying. It will therefore be necessary to be prepared, even before the vaccine is placed on the market, to carry out this unprecedented large-scale vaccination campaign. To do this, you will have to face two major challenges. Firstly, logistics will have to be unwavering if eight million people are to be vaccinated and this vaccination is to be effective. Secondly, there is the question of accession. As we can see, conspirators on all sides are spreading on social networks and, next to them, a fringe of the population manifests fears and concerns about the future vaccine. Prime Minister, Minister of Health, the lack of anticipation in this crisis has been legion. We saw him with the protective equipment, the testing, the tracing. We should not make another mistake with this vaccination. You announced yesterday that we could start vaccination as early as January 5. But will our country have enough doses to vaccinate eight million people? How do we plan to transport and store these vaccines? Are we going to have all the necessary human resources and equipment to administer them? Various groups should be vaccinated as a priority, i.e. health personnel, people over the age of 65 and people over the age of 45 with co-morbidity. Has a schedule been established for the other phases of vaccination? Finally, as a key question, is a communication and information strategy ready to explain, reassure and convince the population, including the most vulnerable groups, of the validity of this vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u23	Prime Minister, I will now give you the floor for about ten minutes before passing it on to Deputy Prime Minister Vandenbroucke, also for about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u24	Madam President, I would like to join the questioners who spoke about hope, about perspective, about light at the end of the tunnel. I think we're all happy to see that. However, it must be clear that this will require efforts. We must not be distracted. I will say something about the vaccinations, but most of them will be explained by Minister Vandenbroucke. For the vaccinations there is a strategy on the table. This is a solidly worked-out document, thanks to the task force, which has put a great deal of energy and consultation into it. This morning, to my great satisfaction, the interdepartmental committee approved this strategy. Yesterday, two vaccine producers, Pfizer and Moderna, applied to the European Medicines Agency for approval. I would like to highlight two important points. First of all, as an individual country, we have no control over the date and speed of production of the vaccines. In the most favourable scenario, vaccines will be available in our country at the beginning of January, as in other countries. So our country must be ready for that most favourable scenario. That is the task for our country, for all the governments of our country. We must and will be ready for the most favourable scenario. We owe it to the most vulnerable among our people. We'll be ready. We must accept this task with both hands, and we must all work together to ensure that we can achieve it. Secondly, vaccination will take time and the pace of vaccination in our country will depend on the pace of production of producers. The faster the producers produce, the faster we can vaccinate. Of course, if there are delays in production, there is little we can do about it, but our strategy must be ready to follow the speed of production. It is clear that producing millions of vaccines will take some time. Mr. Vandenbroucke will tell you about the sequence. The entire Belgian population will not be vaccinated during the month of January. It takes time to produce all these vaccines. During the second and third quarters, still plenty of vaccines will be available in our country. I would nevertheless like to stress what Mr Bacquelaine said. What we see here, what we have achieved, shows an incredible triumph of science and a triumph of cooperation and above all cooperation at European level. If the Europeans had not worked together, it would not have been possible to make this project a reality. Mrs Pas, let me be clear: the decision on non-essential shops was taken on the basis of very clear scientific advice, which left no doubt. A report by the Risk Assessment Group of 28 October talked about a potentially catastrophic situation in our country, with a potential implosion in our care. We were then the country with the highest incidence in all of Europe. In the Celeval opinion, the vast majority of members supported the closure of non-essential shops. We have taken the decision on the basis of very clear opinions. In fact, Minister Vandenbroucke has also made these opinions public. It must be clear, those are very difficult decisions. Those are decisions that are amidships for certain professions, which stop their activity, which put pressure on their income. Those are decisions that no one makes easy. That has a very heavy impact. However, these decisions have allowed us to move from the worst pupil in the European class to a situation where only a few countries are doing better than we are. We shouldn't be euphoric about that. This requires very large sacrifices from very specific groups, from traders who have to close down and who have to make very large sacrifices. It is important that we make it clear that those sacrifices, which are unevenly distributed, lead to results. They have enabled our country to evolve from that very dangerous zone. These are difficult measures, but in my view they are easier to defend and digest when one sees that they lead to results. It is very clear that they lead to results. For a wide range of professions, the Concertation Committee has not declared a reopening. The Consultation Committee also relied on a clearly negative opinion on the reopening of non-medical contact occupations. This opinion explained that indoor activities that last longer than 15 minutes and where people are very close and cannot respect the 1.5 metre distances posed a risk of contamination that remains very high. The opinions also refer to a high risk of aerosol contamination. Therefore, physical activities combined with air humidity are unfortunately still dangerous. We need to take those advice seriously. They were drafted by our best experts, they came for a good reason. The situation in the care sector remains particularly difficult. At a time like this, the slightest danger that leads to a growth in infections can re-translate a few weeks later into a particularly explosive situation in care. We cannot do it to the care providers, who have been giving the best of themselves for months, to take risks again that would lead to an unbearable situation in care. I hope that from the difficult first wave and the particularly difficult second wave we will be able to learn lessons about possible consequences. Let us be clear: if the figures continue to fall as we have seen in the past few weeks, and if those figures dive below the border that we have established in the Conciliation Committee as a safe limit, then there can be more. If a situation is safer, there can be more. Let that be the greatest motivation for all of us. If we stick to the measures and do not allow ourselves to be distracted, the figures will fall further. We have seen in recent weeks that if we change our behavior, that translates into an improvement in the figures. That is the aim that we must not allow our eyes to be distracted from. I'll give you one last element, namely Christmas. I have said it here several times, I understand the disappointment of those who thought they could celebrate another Christmas. As I pointed out, let us not throw away what we have achieved over the past four to six weeks in a period of four days. What I'm saying here, people understand. The Great Corona Study of the University of Antwerp, which appears every two weeks, has been released again today. She makes it very clear that people understand why the corona rules are there. Those rules are very difficult at Christmas, but every time that study appears every two weeks, there are more people who say they will abide by the rules. This proves that people do understand the seriousness of the matter. Clear rules, which are clearly explained and of which people see the results, people cling to them. Let that be my last message. I hear some people asking if we should not show more humanity. Well, isn't the best sign of humanity that we all stick together to measures that prevent the weakest in our society from getting sick and that prevent them from being put at risk by the behavior of some people? Isn't that the best signal of humanity? Isn't that the message that we have to send at Christmas, a message of humanity in which we adhere to the rules to protect the most vulnerable? I hope that will be the only message for all of us together for Christmas and New Year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u25	Mr Vandenbroucke, you also have ten minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u26	Madam President, allow me to begin with Mr Dedecker's question, which I thought was important, not only because of the real care of many pharmacists and pharmacists, but also because that question illustrates how difficult a vaccination campaign, which is actually a routine campaign, can become. There is indeed a difficulty. According to the count of 16 November, we had a stock of 474,000 flu vaccines at the wholesale trade, in the pharmacies and hospital pharmacists. At that time, the estimate was that for the main priority target group, the so-called Group A, of which I will explain in a moment who belongs to it, we might still need 420,000 flu vaccines. That actually meant that we had to put everything on the delivery of flu vaccines to Group A. The first target group, Group A, is made up of 65-plussers, defined chronic patients, people living with 65-plussers and/or with certain chronic patients and, finally, health professionals. We have told the pharmacists and everyone who needed to hear it that they must now be provided with the flu vaccine. As a result, some people in group B, who were younger than 65 years and had reserved their vaccine, were told to wait in the pharmacy. That is, of course, a very annoying message, but I gave you the reason. Perhaps the pharmacists will also need to spread the stock among themselves in such a way that all customers belonging to Group A, namely sixty-five plus-five, chronically ill people and those living with them and health workers, can be effectively served. So we are sending the nasty message that we want to serve this category with top priority first. In mid-December we will assess that and see what we can do for Group B. This illustrates how difficult even a routine vaccination campaign can be, while the previous government has ordered more vaccines than usual. It cannot therefore be blamed, although that would be easy for me. However, she has ordered more vaccines than usual and yet we are facing this difficulty. Firstly, I would like to confirm what the Prime Minister said, namely that there is very good news of science and that is a relief, a great relief. We should not be euphoric about this, but we should not be completely suspicious of it. The European Medicines Agency confirmed yesterday at the Council of Health Ministers of Europe that its opinion will be ready by 29 December at the latest. Insiders tell me that we should not expect them before 29 December, but I repeat the literal statement made by the European Agency at yesterday's Council before noon, namely that the opinion on Pfizer's vaccine will be there by 29 December and on the Moderna vaccine on 12 January. Then the European Commission still has to decide and, of course, the vaccines must be delivered by the producers. We do not have the latter in our hands. We have said to our services, after thorough consultation with all our colleagues in Health, that they must be ready for the most favourable scenario. We also put a date on that, namely 5 January. We assume it will be. That's a hell of a job, but that's what we're assuming. I believe that there are indeed two conditions of success for this vast campaign. On the one hand, trust, on the other, organization and logistics. As far as citizens' confidence is concerned, I believe there are three elements. First of all, it is necessary to be quite demanding vis-à-vis industry as regards the quality of these vaccines and safety. And I can tell you that the Belgian delegation to the European Medicines Agency has received as an explicit instruction to receive answers from industry, even in a shortened procedure, rolling review, to all scientific questions, all safety and quality issues must; otherwise, authorisation is not given, even if it takes more time. This is the explicit instruction given to the Belgian delegation to the European Medicines Agency. And I believe that the same will apply to all my colleagues in Europe. Even in a shortened procedure, all questions of safety and quality, all scientific questions must be answered. Only in this case will the authorisation follow. It's the first element of confidence. For the second element, I find, Mr. Bacquelaine, that your formula is perfect. I'll say it again, "vaccine on the table." Information and full transparency, both vis-à-vis healthcare providers, general practitioners, all the others, and the general public. We'll let you know. That's the second element. There is a third element: you must also listen. What are the concerns, what are the difficulties, what do people think? We will listen and organize focus groups, etc. We will do all this under the direction of the former ULB Rector, who is also a well-known doctor, Dr. Yvon Englert. Then logistics. For logistics we have taken some options that make it possible to roll out quickly. The centrepiece of the first phase is hospitals. They either have their own facilities that can freeze up to 80°C or are able to use well if they do not have these installations themselves, facilities that Pfizer supplies. With these facilities, it is possible to guarantee hospitalization for a sufficiently long period of time. So the hospitals either have such a freezer themselves or Pfizer, in consultation with us, ensures that this can happen in the hospital in that way. In the first place, the hospitals go to the residential care centres and other health care institutions. They are indeed difficult choices. It is about solidarity in a context of scarcity. Those residential care centers are home to vulnerable people, because of their older age. However, they also live closer together. That's good, but that also makes them very contagious. They also represent a greater risk than older people living apart. Older people living close together are a top priority. Here's where we'll pull the first one out of the hospitals. This will also be the case for the staff and volunteers who are helping to keep the housing centres straight today. The same applies to other health care institutions. The healthcare providers in the hospitals and other health institutions are next in turn. The Prime Minister has already said that these institutions must continue to operate. Then follows the other hospital staff who do not come into direct contact with patients, but still operate in hospitals and health institutions. The next step is for us to have another debate. This concerns people with an essential social or economic function. I will not give examples. That only leads to all kinds of debates on matters that we have yet to clear up. There's a little time for that, too. In a subsequent phase, the 65-plussers and people with certain diseases or conditions making them vulnerable are next. After that, the entire population follows. I won't be giving much data today. We believe that the very first phase, in the residential care centres, can take place in January or February, if everything is not that bad. The phase at which the elderly are called outside the institutions will be at the very end of February or March, if everything is not as bad as it is with regard to the supplies of vaccines. At the next stage, I will not even explicitly put a date on it. In the next phase, we will indeed have to use triage centres, among other things. Important questions have been asked about pregnant women, but I am not going to answer them now, because the task force must first determine them. It also applies to choice, but perhaps I will say a word about it, Mr Bacquelaine. This question is partly theoretical, because it is possible that we are deprived of the luxury of having two vaccines at the same time. However, this is an important point. Having asked the question to the task force, I will not prejudge its answer. In any case, we will have this debate. Mrs Jiroflée, I have implicitly answered the question about young people. You're right. All people are having a hard time, but young people are having a particularly difficult time. They are being snuffed in their development for so long and so long. I have just been referred to my statement that there are also many young people who may lose a small but important job in a café, restaurant or shop. Mrs Pas, I have indeed noticed that. I've indicated that it's bad, even if it's just a small job, when a student loses it. Young people are now also getting the message that they are not among the most priority target groups. That's hard. We are asking for a great deal of solidarity. I know. We're actually asking a lot of people. I would like to conclude as follows. I think there is real hope now, not euphoria because we will still be living a very complicated period during which we will have to measure the possible relaxations and the gradual return to the life we love, the normal life. If we succeed, the triumph of science will be the triumph of European cooperation and solidarity. So we will defeat! I want to end with those wonderful words of Martine Tanghe, the most beautiful words of 2020. "Hold on. It's gonna be okay."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u27	Prime Minister, Minister, I sincerely want to believe in your vaccination strategy. At least two points, however, continue to be of concern to me: logistics and communication with the population and general practitioners. As you know, anti-vaccine movements are wreaking havoc on social networks. You explain that the vaccination campaign will take time. The communication campaign will also take time. That is why I really invite you to do this work of conviction with the public, to convince them of the usefulness of this vaccine, but also to reassure them of the absence of side effects. This is a job that needs to be done today, not when the vaccine arrives. It is a job that will be difficult, know that you will be able to count on our support. In fact, I appeal to all political parties and opinion leaders to ensure that this vaccination campaign is a real success. In this crisis management, we have lost too many battles to be able to afford to lose this one, which will be the most decisive to enable us to regain our freedoms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u28	It is nice to hear that we are ready for the most favorable scenario. It is also important, in order to remain consistent with our goal of vaccination and vaccine safety concerns, to explain to the public that we do not have all the answers today. We will move forward by walking, which is an important notion because we will not have all the answers, which is not necessarily worrying. It is clear that we are still waiting for validations of clinical studies of EMA. It will require monitoring of side effects, especially on younger ones. We'll have to see how we can move forward. Ultimately, it will also have to be made clear that the vaccine is not the grail. This does not mean the end of all the barrier measures. I will end with a more meta view: vaccination is also an international issue. Belgium will have to fight for the vaccine to be a common good. We voted unanimously here at the WHO for a resolution. His mind must now enter into practice. This vaccine must be globally accessible, to the poorest and most vulnerable, otherwise we collectively will have missed the goal, because we want to look a little too much at our own country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u29	Prime Minister, Minister, most people, despite the difficulties, persisted, persevered, behaved disciplinedly. I think we should admire that. I think the government should admire that. They now deserve a government that rolls out the exit from the crisis in an orderly, careful manner, step by step, in consultation with the population, in solidarity with the population. The sp.a is counting on you, gentlemen, to ensure that we reach the safe haven.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, Minister, thank you very much for your answers. There are three things that matter. Firstly, we must convince people, we must provide people with answers, so that those 20% of doubters too are convinced to be vaccinated. Secondly, the practical organisation. We must ensure that everyone can be vaccinated as soon as possible. Thirdly, we must keep people motivated to continue the difficult efforts they are making in 2021. That too is very important. I am convinced that we can and must do so with one team of 11 million Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u31	Prime Minister, Minister, of course, you are calling on us to have hope. For many people, that's sometimes all they have left. I am pleased to hear from you, Minister, that speed will not lead to the quality of vaccines being trampled on. I still do not know if this will be enough at this stage to convince the most reluctant to participate in this general vaccination campaign, but it is an essential element, in any case, in order to obtain their conviction. You presented a strategy on target audiences. Let's be careful, she was long overdue! Perhaps, by the way, it could have been announced for much longer already. But what matters to us today is to have a real operational strategy. The practical implementation of all these scenarios, of all these options, is what you are expected to do and whether or not the public will have an opportunity to judge the effectiveness of the government. I conclude, by calling also - although I respect the priorities defined; we had to make choices - not to forget the travelling approach towards those who are at home or those who do not (the homeless), who must also be taken into consideration (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would stress that the accession campaign is fundamental to obtaining collective immunity. This requires trust and transparency, as well as quality. The quality requirement is important in all processes. But we must remember that it is better to rely on intelligence and solidarity than to infantilize the population. This is very important, because the questions are legitimate. You have to answer it! I would also like to point out that vaccination is not an administrative act. It's a medical act. I really plead, so that, whatever the form – I understand that we are not going to vaccinate in every medical office. This is not possible – it is associated with the first line (pharmacists, nurses, nurses, general practitioners) to build confidence among the population. And they need to be able to answer the questions that the people are going to ask them. This step is essential for the success of massive adherence to collective immunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u33	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. Prime Minister, you are referring to an opinion from Celeval to show that the decision to close the shops was scientifically substantiated. That advice also contains things you haven't followed. The same opinion recommends closing the borders. It is therefore still a political decision and I note that you prefer to close shops rather than borders. Prime Minister, your answer only makes Mr Vandenbroucke's shock-effect statement more unacceptable. I don't think you've ever gone through life as a self-employed or entrepreneur, let alone that you might have had a job in a store, but if you make such statements again, put yourself in these people for once, so that your statements aren't so distasteful. Prime Minister, you have offered no prospects for hairdressers and beauty salons. However, I think that, especially with the holidays ahead, a visit to them would have been a good thing for the mental well-being of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u34	Prime Minister, Minister, fine words, but I do not have too much confidence in those fine words. In that context, I have heard too many fine words and beautiful promises during the corona crisis. Just think of the words of Minister De Block at the beginning of the crisis, when she said that our country was ready to tackle the corona virus. And look where we are now. The country is virtually flat, the human and economic damage is incalculable and 17,000 deaths are to be regretted in our country. So that's how ready our country was to tackle the corona virus. How should we have confidence in a government that fails to buy the right shots to vaccinate the people who want it? Minister, if you do not succeed in achieving this, I fear that you will no longer have to cause a shock, because in 2024 the voter will have a kick-off effect in your case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u35	Mr Vandenbroucke, I have heard you use harsh words: you will be strict in terms of safety and quality, all questions must be answered, there must be total transparency, both for doctors and for public opinion. We can only agree to this, but I repeat to you, Prime Minister, the question of Test Purchasing: will we or will they be able to see the contracts with the pharmaceutical multinationals? You did not answer that, and that was my only question, a simple question to which yes or no can be answered. This is, of course, a wrong signal, because it undermines your own vaccination strategy: if you cannot gain the confidence of the people and if you do not have access to these contracts, do you think people will believe your information campaigns? Moreover, that is also a right, because it is about a huge amount of money. Doctors Without Borders came to an amount of 10 billion dollars given to the pharmaceutical multinationals...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u36	Prime Minister, Minister, it was important for the people today to make some nuance about 5 January. I hear a lot of good things, I also hear that the process will increase confidence in the vaccine and I am glad that the government is very conscious about it. However, let us certainly take into account the two factors for achieving this success, in particular, to continue to communicate to the population at a low threshold and to remain transparent with the population. In this way we will be able to ensure that the 70% vaccination rate is achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u37	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, when both Minister Vandenbroucke and our Prime Minister and Martine Tanghe say that it will be all right, we believe that it will be all right. We're with the better students in the class, which was different a few weeks ago. That's because we followed the experts. I therefore call on the experts to follow up on clear communication in the vaccination strategy. She's really part of it. We had and have 11 million reasons to follow the measures. In fact, we also have 11 million reasons to be vaccinated. Let's tell those stories. Prime Minister, you have done very well. We do not want any more seats to be empty at Christmas in 2021. That is why we are now sticking to the measures. That is why we must be vaccinated. We do not want long-term covid contamination. We don't want any more empty seats. That's why I'm going to be vaccinated. That is why we should all do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u38	Madam President, Prime Minister, you replied: 'if everything is all right', which I sincerely hope. You have given the people in the residential care centers hope and perspective, which was really necessary. What worries me a little is the umbrella you're already pulling open. What really interests me is the actions behind this morning's powerpoint presentation and the concrete plans that exist. Very painful during the press conference was the statement of one of the actors, who said: "Look, that's us. That's where we're called, but we haven't even received an invitation yet." That's what I hear in the field. You have a tremendous amount of work and a crushing responsibility. You announce that you will vaccinate, but you haven't even budgeted the money for it yet. I will table an amendment in the Finance Committee tomorrow. I invite you to approve it, so that we can register those cents and move forward with the vaccination that our population is effectively waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u39	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your reply. It was concrete and clear. That's more of an exception than a rule here. I am pleased to be able to say to the pharmacists that Saint Nicholas brings the rest of the flu vaccines and that by 15 December the case will be complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u40	Prime Minister, Minister of Health, this vaccination campaign must be a success. It is necessary to allow those waiting for the vaccine, and many of them, to receive it as quickly and safely as possible. It will also be necessary to convince those who have concerns or doubts that this vaccine will be the key to getting out of this crisis, and to deconstruct false and conspiratory discourse. For this to work, it will also have to be transparent, on contracts, on the effectiveness of vaccines, on their cost. Because for now, what do we know and what do the citizens know? Not much, while public money has been invested to see this vaccine arrive; it must be regarded as a public good and not as a mere commodity that makes profits through opaque contracts. Finally, I will repeat with a bit of humor these few words addressed here little by our comedian Guillermo Guiz to his listeners: "Come on, we all immunorise with the vaccine, we relive as before and let the caregivers breathe!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u41	Madam President, Minister, do you hear this deafening silence in the insurance sector? Since the beginning of the crisis, every time the State has been asked to make efforts, at all levels of power. The banks were called to the bar. They responded during the first wave. They are much more frying during this second wave, and yet, now more than ever, actors in the field need the gestures and support of their banking partners. But insurance, nothing! It's been weeks since the CDH called on your government asking for action. On several occasions, I have questioned your colleague, Minister Clarinval. Without success. Today, I am addressing you so that there will finally be a break in the insurance sector, which is very discreet and which continues to receive premiums from an economic sector which is slowing down or even stopping. Let's be clear! The insurance sector must also make its share of efforts in these times of crisis. He can't stay on the balcony. At our French neighbours, the Minister of Economy urged the insurance sector to hand over the portfolio by freezing premiums, especially for the "horecaists" who are at a standstill. Otherwise, it threatens to tax insurance groups. In fact, there are EUR 1.2 billion foreseen in a budget item that it has the capacity to activate. And at home, nothing! Is it possible, in order to provide concrete support to these self-employed persons whose activity is slowing down or has been closed, to also ensure that the insurance companies hand over the portfolio, exempt from payment of a series of drafts or, in the worst case, postpone them? For the time being, this remains a fixed expense that the self-employed have to bear, while they no longer have a return.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u42	Madam President, honourable Member, thank you for your question. Like you, I hear the screams and distress of several traders, independents and entrepreneurs. Like you, I believe that we cannot only pool losses, but that we must unite our efforts. It is important that every player in society, every citizen who is not, today, affected by this health crisis or its economic and social consequences, participates in the process of supporting those who need it most. In this case, you have just mentioned the sectors that are among the most affected. As I announced to you, several contacts have been established with Assuralia (Union professionnelle des entreprises d'assurances), which reminded us that certain initiatives have already been taken at sectoral level, in view of the health and economic crisis that we are going through. These measures include, inter alia, the deferral of certain mortgage loans, the deferral or suspension of certain insurance premiums, in particular for outstanding balance insurance or fire insurance in connection with real estate loans, or the suspension of certain professional liability insurance. It cannot therefore be said that nothing has been done or that nothing has been done. Was it effective? I think so. Was that enough? I don't think so. That is why, Mr President, we must continue our work with the insurance sector in order to provide additional support to our self-employed and our businesses, which are particularly affected by the consequences of this health crisis. The aim is for this support to be effective in providing support and assistance. The measures must be precise and concrete. Similarly, they must be well communicated to our independents, who sometimes experience difficulties in capturing the information in all its complexity. We are working with Assuralia to set up a communication platform specific to the sectors particularly affected, in this case the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u43	Minister, as you have not been applauded by your majority, I will allow myself to do so, thanking you. Indeed, this is the first time since I have asked the government about this issue that it has been recognized that the insurance sector has not been sufficiently involved so far and that it must therefore provide more assistance to the self-employed. I would therefore like to see these commitments translated into practice, avoiding the possibility that insurance companies will win scraping and drawing, scraping by remaining on the balcony, as has been the case so far, at the draw by writing, as they have begun to do in France, to their affiliates by informing them that they will be able to pay less for their insurance(s) tomorrow because the coverage rate will be reduced. This is a scandalous approach that must not be followed in times of crisis during which solidarity must be at the rendezvous of all actors, including those in the insurance sector. Thank you for highlighting it. I now look forward to concrete actions that could be taken by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u44	Madam President, Minister, today there are still a lot of companies that have no perspective. I am thinking, for example, of the 25,000 hairdressers, the 15,000 beauty specialists, more than 800 fitness centers and certainly also the catering industry. What we sometimes forget is that there are people of flesh and blood behind these companies. They've put all their savings into their business. At the same time, they must also support a family. This leads not only to financial dramas, but often also to personal dramas. Their mental resilience is at stake. This will also cause problems for our public health. As if that were not enough, this difficult period could also lead to bankruptcy. You know, if one experiences this in Belgium, one gets a stamp that one carries for the rest of one's life. If one ever wants to go to the bank again afterwards, one is no longer treated as a human being but as the one who went bankrupt. A moratorium on bankruptcies will not help. December is a very important period for many contact professions. A lot of these contact professions go on abroad. We also see our fellow countrymen crossing the border, with the result that a lot of money, millions, flows abroad. Minister, it has been chosen to give traders the chance to make up for some of the year by letting the shops open again. Why don't you give the contact professions the same chance? Do you find their income less essential? The closing of the shops did not appear to be based on objective arguments or certainly not on a causal link in relation to the severity of the pandemic. Is that even true for closing the contact professions? Are there any causal links or objective criteria? If not, why do you carry on? How the hell do you explain this to people? Do you intend to offer them a short-term perspective?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Houtmeyers, thank you for your question. I understand, of course, the enormous disappointment of the employers and employees of the sectors that must remain closed. I am thinking of the contact professions, the catering industry, and also of a large part of the cultural sector. I know that the closure affects people financially and personally. Often it's about these people's life's work. Of course, I am also concerned about the impact on our economy. But we're fighting a virus that still kills a lot of people every day. It is for this reason that we are taking these difficult measures. The government will not abandon the affected sectors. On the contrary, we have taken a large number of measures to help them. I am thinking, for example, of temporary unemployment due to corona for workers, the increase in compensation for temporary unemployment to 70% and a supplement from the RVA, the double right of bridging for self-employed workers, the specific measures for artists, and finally the postponement of payment at no cost and a guarantee scheme for credits. You see, the government is shoulder to shoulder with the affected sectors. We took even more measures during the second wave than during the first wave. Moreover, we are in constant contact with the affected sectors to further refine our assistance. I repeat: the government does not abandon the sectors concerned. Not today, not tomorrow, not ever. We will provide support for as long as it is necessary until the OCC decides to reopen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A lot isn't about money. The health care staff is the best proof of this: the most important thing is respect, which may be even more important than money. Certainly, entrepreneurs do not wait for public money that they have not earned themselves, they want to be able to earn their own money. If we see that many of them are seeing their life's work lost, not so much by the corona crisis, but by a government that is taking measures that are not based on scientific evidence such as closing the trade that would have a serious impact on the pandemic, then that is, of course, very painful. The shouts of the entrepreneurs are getting louder and more important. We'll carry that for a long time. At least, Minister, give our entrepreneurs the opportunity to act in a safe manner. Please show them that their work is also essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u47	Madam President, Minister, the self-employed are having a very difficult time at this time, as you know, of course. Not only do they have to worry about their health and those of their relatives and friends, but they also experience the economic consequences of the measures taken. This applies, of course, primarily to the self-employed who had to close their cases in order to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, such as the catering industry, the event sector and the many contact professions. It's about people whose business is their life's work. Now they see the fruits of years of hard work lost. Often it is also about young people who started their business with great enthusiasm last year. It chops deep into it and the sleepless nights of the most affected are no longer countable. The government has taken a number of measures to cope with the worst financial shock until social life can return to normal. One of the most important instruments is the right of bridging. On 19 November, with a week's delay due to the second reading requested by Mr Anseeeuw, the draft was adopted in plenary with a double right of bridging. The measure applies to the self-employed who have to close down, but also to the self-employed who have to close down. Over the last few days I have, undoubtedly a lot of colleagues and certainly you as Minister, been given panicky reactions by self-employed people who have not yet received the double bridging right for October and November. This demonstrates the need for this measure to allow these people and, above all, their cause to survive the crisis. Minister, when will people be granted the double bridging right? The measures are still in force and will apply for a while. What will the government do to provide for this support in December, if necessary? You indicated earlier that you would like to organise the bridge law differently. In what way do you want to do that and from when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u48	Mrs De Jonge, to support the self-employed during this crisis period, the federal government has taken numerous support measures, including the right of bridging. From March to September, 1,693,512 self-employed persons were granted a transitional right. For the month of October, this amounts to more than 115,000 files for the bridging right. To date, 100 % of the bridging rights to support the restart have been paid. 100 % was also paid out of the single crisis bridging right. Of the double crisis bridge fee, 80% was paid out and the remaining 20% is paid out by today. The payment of the double bridging right for October depended on the vote in Parliament on the law introducing this right. This vote took place on 19 November and after that I immediately contacted the social insurance funds to ask them to deal with the dossiers as quickly as possible. For this, it took 2 weeks. Now that the situation has normalized, the transitional rights for November will be paid by 7 December at the latest. The transitional rights for the month of December shall be paid no later than 7 January. I know that this waiting period is difficult for the self-employed who are seriously affected by the crisis, and that is why I have signed up the social insurance funds to ask them to speed up the pace. My priority is that the payment of the bridging rights should be made as soon as possible. In order to enable the self-employed to get through these incredibly difficult times, it is essential that they receive this help as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u49	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the reassuring answer. I am very pleased that you are the trigger here and will be working on this very quickly. Even if it's a smaller percentage, I really think the people need those resources. Restaurants and various other sectors experience the most difficult times in decades. They are the beating heart of the social fabric. These are places where a lot of people meet, where there is a lot to do and a lot of events take place. They certainly need this double bridging right to overcome the financial problems they now have. Given the fixed costs, such as the rent of a property or loans to be paid at the end of the month, a quick deposit of that bridging right is really necessary. Your commitment to speed this up will be greatly appreciated by the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u50	Madam President, Minister, today is the day for people with disabilities or disabilities. For me, this is not a day like another. I'm the proud father of a beautiful, handicapped daughter. From this perspective, I look at such a day with argus eyes. I know perfectly what problems this group of people has and what they have to go through every day. My daughter's lucky to have parents looking after her, but a lot of people don't have that luxury. Just today, Unia once again confirms a survey of more than a thousand people from which the problems that I and many of us already know come to light. That report shows a lot of things that really pissed me off. If I mentioned them all, I wouldn't be here in two minutes. I read about the financial problems, how hard it is to get on the street, to live together or, worse still, to find a place to live. There are also problems with public transport. However, a very important aspect is the feeling of loneliness. The countless testimonies we're getting are really going through marrow and bone. In a year of disaster, with the corona crisis that already had two waves, I hold my heart immensely. That report kind of pisses me off, too. The worst thing that emerges from Unia's report is that there is no improvement in six years. This is what the respondents put forward, and in all respects. There is no improvement for them. Today, 40% of the people who benefit from a disability are living below the poverty line. That's in Belgium. It can't be. These people find themselves in many other problems because they have too little money. That's why I'm here. I do not want us to see the same thing clearly in 2026 and not to be a step forward again. Can you guarantee that by 2024, no fellow countryman with a disability will have to live on a wage below the poverty line? Will you at last ensure a proper coordination of policies between the federal government and the various states?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u51	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day. It is the International Day for people with disabilities. I think it would be appropriate to reflect on whether we can achieve an inclusive society, a society in which everyone can participate, including people with disabilities. I am proud to be part of this coalition, because we have already taken a number of steps together towards inclusive society. Firstly, as from 1 January, the price of love will be abolished. Currently, people with disabilities who move in together or marry lose part of their integration meeting. That will no longer be the case from 1 January. That is a good thing, because integration is mainly there to ensure that people can finance the additional costs they incur because of their disability. Secondly, it is important to increase the income replacement allowance for those who cannot work or can only work part-time. That is also a promise that this government has made and that we will deliver. We will increase this concession to the poverty line. That's coming up, and that's not a day too soon. The questioning of Unia shows that many people with disabilities are particularly concerned about their financial situation. So it's a good thing we're working on that. However, the work is not yet finished, and we all know that. Many people with disabilities want to be part of society and want to participate fully and that is to say they have to be able to work. However, if they start working today, they will lose some or all of their integration. It shouldn't be. People must be able to participate and work without losing their integration, especially if they are aware that there are many other social benefits involved. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Do you think people should be able to combine that? Are you prepared to ensure that people are no longer punished if they go to work and do not lose part or all of their integration?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u52	Mr Colebunders, Mrs Lanjri, today is 3 December, the International Day of People with Disabilities. On that day, attention will be paid to the situation of people with disabilities worldwide. However, it is too often the day of good intentions. I'd like to tell you what I want to do and what I've already done. Mrs Lanjri, one of the decisions we have already taken concerns the price of labour. Work is an important tool for integration. There are many people with disabilities who want to work. The government has committed itself to a structural reduction in the price of labour and to making labour pay even more. I will soon submit a royal decree to this effect. We have taken into account the comments of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities and I can assure you that their impact will be considerable. You will hear more about this soon and will be consulted. As regards the second question, I can confirm that it will be possible for most people to combine a job with an income from work with an integration allowance. For example, the minimum age for entitlement to a benefit is reduced from 21 to 18 years. The draft law on this subject will be discussed next week in the Committee on Social Affairs. More than 10,000 people will benefit from this. Nor will there be a price of love for people with disabilities, because they will no longer be disadvantaged and punished if they want to live together. That's a historic step. In addition, income replacement allowances will gradually be increased to the level of the poverty line. Here too, the impact will be significant, but I do not limit my priorities to the allowances. I want to talk about social inclusion and accessibility, and that is why I had a first contact with my federal colleagues, with the intention of paying particular attention to this. I am thinking, for example, of means of improving the accessibility of SNCB. The crisis has made the problems even worse. That is why, as part of the recovery plan, I proposed to the ministers of the various regions to launch inclusive projects together. One does not choose to be a person with a disability. As a society, we must be there for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u53	Madam Minister, the policy area for people with disabilities is an example of a Belgian patchwork of powers, and that is where it goes wrong when I see what has happened over the past six years. The regionalisation of powers, which the N-VA is so eager to glorify here, is clearly not a solution. There's got to be more federal control. Mr De Roover, you are laughing, but I wouldn't laugh too much, because the survey shows that the Dutch participants feel that there has been no significant progress in recent years. So I wouldn't say that your policy really did the right thing. Madam Secretary, you are talking about a significant increase. Twenty-two per cent can indeed mean a substantial increase, but you have to take into account three indexations and four welfare envelopes, and you will not get there yet, Madam Minister. Perhaps a lot of Members here in the hemisphere are saying that it will never be enough for the PVDA, but we simply want the income of people with disabilities to be above the poverty line now and certainly in 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u54	Madam Secretary, I'm glad you're on the same page. We will certainly be able to work together. It is a good thing that you are working on abolishing the price of labour, that you are at least working towards it. This will allow a very large group of people to work from now on, and that is important. I quote from a testimony in Unia's report today: "Make sure that those who want and can work do not lose everything. They contribute to society and must be rewarded and not punished." We must bear that in mind. We must ensure that people can participate fully, that they are rewarded and not punished by losing part of their integration. So I am certainly looking forward to your initiatives which will soon be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u55	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the difficult measures taken seem to be working. The sp.a is extremely happy that the efforts of all 11 million Belgians are rewarded. With the opening of non-essential shops, we are taking a first step in the right direction. No longer is our country on the back European lists. No longer does our health care risk falling apart. Yet, the biggest mistake we can make now is thinking that we can proclaim victory, see a falling trend as a guarantee or see a lack of overall panic as victory. Less than two months ago, we saw how quickly it could go wrong. Even with all the efforts that are being made, things can still go wrong. Any relaxation we do must therefore be done with the necessary security. Anyone can remember the images of the last Sundays of the sale. Overcrowded shopping streets where the one-and-a-half meters were lost, streets so loaded that they thought they were in a stadium during a Champions League game. We don't want to go there anymore. It can't be, it can't be, and it won't be. Today, shopkeepers are doing their utmost to ensure that everything runs as safely as possible: hand gels, limited walk-in, walk-ins. In short, they do everything. Mayors are also doing their utmost to ensure that everything in their shopping streets is as safe as possible. We now have the opportunity to do our Christmas shopping in a spread way, but then we need a decent plan and perhaps also the support of the federal police. Madam Secretary, are there any city center cities today that are already helping you roll out a particular road map for a safe shopping street? Will the federal government also support the deployment of federal police if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u56	Madam President, Mr Moyaers, there is indeed a great deal of commitment. I have been able to see that with my own eyes. All shopkeepers have done their utmost to prepare themselves very well for the opening conditions. They were and are ready. The same applies to the local authorities, the local authorities, who have done their utmost in the past to take and follow up the concrete corona measures on their territory. The fact that the reopening took place this week on a weekday has also helped to ensure that it can be done properly, and above all, that any pain points can be followed up before the weekend that comes. During the preparation of the measures, but also afterwards, we have kept in close contact with the governors to examine whether and how to send them on the basis of briefings with the mayors. After all, it is my conviction that safe shopping and the safe opening of shops are essential in the further fight against the covid crisis and in the prevention of an increase in the number of infections. I have seen in the field that everyone is convinced that we must do this right so that we do not have to reverse the situation. That is why I took the initiative to write a ministerial letter to the governors and mayors on the management of the public area in relation to shops, shopping centres and shopping streets. Those guidelines were delivered to the mayors and the governors on 29 November, so still on weekends. I understand from them that they have been well received. With regard to federal support, the local police may call on the Intervention Corps at the level of the Province, the DirCos. That Intervention Corps is being made available today, and it is being used preventively in many places to avoid crowds. In addition, the federal government has taken the initiative to involve the event sector and to notify good practices to the governors and mayors to prepare well for the coming Christmas and New Year period, as well as winter bargains. On 1 December we held a coordination meeting with the Crisis Centre, the Governors, and the representatives of the event sector and the Coronac Commission to follow up the reopening after the first day. There will also be a meeting next Tuesday to take a good look at the evolution during the weekend. In any case, I can assure you that the situation is being closely monitored and that the Intervention Corps is available. If the municipalities need additional support, they can apply for it through the governors or the Crisis Centre and that request will also come to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u57	Madam Secretary, it is good to hear that you will give maximum support. However, it is also a responsibility of all of us: of all governments, of all shopkeepers, but also of all potential customers. I therefore call on all citizens to use common sense when shopping. Go spread out to the shops and not all on the weekends. Go alone and not with your whole family. Keep your distance at all times and everywhere. It can only be a success if we all keep to the agreements. In this way we keep the shops open and we support each other in the current difficult times. Only in this way will we all take a step forward together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u58	Minister, every year, police areas receive an additional federal "road safety" grant from a fund funded by revenues from road safety violations. In Circular PLP 60, which deals with the instructions for the preparation of the 2021 police budget, you request that no amount be included in the budget of the police zones in the article "Federal Road Safety Grants", arguing that the amounts in the first instalment are not yet known. This decision is a matter of serious concern to the police because you are certainly aware that the system has been in place since 2005 and is based on a logic whereby the State allocates funds to the police in return for clear and sustainable road safety commitments. In other words, each police area has developed a road safety action plan in line with its multi-year zonal safety plan, which is validated by the Minister of the Interior. These actions are part of cycles and are subject to regular evaluations. Their funding covers both commitments and the provision of personnel, including training, prevention and control, as well as investments, such as purchases of equipment, radar and vehicles. Many commitments are long-term and it will not be possible for the local level to finance them, as the amounts are large. In order not to put police areas in difficulty in preparing their budgets and so that they can carry out their road safety action plan, how can you remedy this problem? Would it be possible for you to review Circular PLP 60 by allowing police areas to enter an amount equal to that of the first tranche of 2020 and that, as soon as the official figures are known for the year 2021, the amount previously entered could be adjusted by means of a budgetary amendment? If not, what can you propose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u59	My colleague, in fact, in Circular PLP 60, which contains the budgetary guidelines for police areas, they were asked not to include, for the time being, the revenue from the road safety fund. We were, during the drafting of the circular, on the eve of restrictive measures following the second wave of the VOCID-19. On the basis of the figures available, we saw a huge impact of the restrictive measures taken following the first wave on the revenue of this fund. To give you an idea, in February, the criminal fines were still EUR 11.5 million, but in April, less than EUR 500 000. In April and May of last year, the total federal revenue received by the judiciary was EUR 30 million, this year barely EUR 16 million for the same period. Had these trends continued in the last few months of this year, federal revenues would not have been sufficient to transfer the first €101.5 million to local police areas in 2021. At the beginning of this week, I had a consultation with the three associations of cities and municipalities on this subject. I also announced that, on the basis of the November figures, we could give further instructions. In the meantime, the figures are available. The fall in revenues we saw in the spring is not currently observed in the fall. That's good news. For the whole of 2020, there will still be a huge drop in federal revenues, by almost 40%; but on the basis of the latest calculations, we will be able to transfer the first tranche to the local police areas. I would like to point out, through the Governors, that Circular PLP 60 can be adapted on this point and that police areas can, as every year, include in their revenues an amount not exceeding that of last year. I think that's good news for the police areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u60	Madam Minister, this is indeed very good news and I thank you for your answer. The payment of the road safety subsidy is essential to police areas in order to balance their budget and to enable them to carry out their actions. Without this, the budgets would really be unbalanced and the municipalities cannot be rightly asked to make up for this lack of revenue. Being able to record, as in previous years, the amount of the first instalment paid the previous year is really good news. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you to pay attention to the extension of funding for end-of-career measures for local police personnel. This is, in other words, the federal NAPAP subsid. This is very important also for police areas. The police have an essential role to play. It is therefore necessary to guarantee its financing. I know that the subject has already been discussed in the debate on your general policy. I am referring here to the measures you have taken, in consultation with the governors. Again, thank you very much. As mayor and president of a police zone, I can tell you that the concerns were great.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u61	Madam President, Madam Minister, first of all let me congratulate you, since this is the first time I have spoken to you. Minister, crises have been exacerbating the difficulties and the relations between young people and the police have, unfortunately, always been difficult. The year 2020 was only a revealing year. Classes cancelled, leisure restricted, social interactions reduced to nothing, difficulty in obtaining or creating employment, or even keeping it and therefore projecting: our youth is particularly affected by this period of restriction. The crisis will also have mobilized our police to strictly enforce the rules. As a result, the interactions have too often taken the form of controls and the links have too often become authoritative. This difficulty has been compounded by the visibility and publicity of certain behaviours, of certain abuses. With them, trust disappears and the ties necessary for cohesion have dissipated. This week, as you know, a report compiling the responses of 1,400 young people between the ages of 16 and 30 has arrived. This document of public utility establishes a paradox and offers a perspective. A paradox because, even though the representation of the police among young people is lucidly described as a security service, a justice service and a service to the population, they describe these services of justice and these services to the population in the context of relations by the words "fear" and "lack of respect". It also sets up a perspective and offers an outstretched hand by formulating precise proposals, namely sufficient information about their rights, a basis for all confidence, respect for daily reports, better knowledge through innovative initiatives, and better training of our police officers, from the initial training. Minister, have you read this report? Can you tell me if any of these conclusions will be echoed in the Security Monitor? What measures do you intend to take in particular in terms of information on rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u62	Madam President, Mr Aouasti, the Youth Forum's investigation, to which you refer, is well integrated into my policy on various subjects, and I also welcome every initiative taken to reduce the distance between youth and the police. Indeed, the problem of young people's perception affects many aspects of police management. Although the training already contains very specific elements in order to target these problems of perception by young people, I am aware that we can do more. On the one hand, two federal police services are dedicated to integrity and diversity. Their mission is to create pathways for improvement, both in terms of integrity and diversity. It is also clear that the diversity of the police itself and the training of our inspectors have a great effect on the perception of the police in the street among young people. These services will continue, at my request, to undertake initiatives to listen to the concerns expressed by representative groups such as the Youth Forum. On the other hand, the police areas, which are all part of the concept of community-oriented police, are carrying out concrete projects that I support and encourage. An example is the informative project Mag da? in Antwerp, which aims to inform young people whether certain behaviours by the police or by the young people themselves are allowed or not. In my policy statement, I also stressed the importance of citizen participation and, in this case, the mediation of the neighbourhood with a view to breaking the escalation of conflicts in a preventive manner. In this sense, we are in the process of initiating a project specifically aimed at young people in Brussels. Together with Minister Dalle in Flanders, responsible for Youth, and the Flemish Community, we have set up a collaboration between Brussels youth organisations and some Brussels police areas, including the Midi zone. The aim of this collaboration is to launch a pilot project mediated by experts in this field. I stress that the project will take shape on the basis of input from youth organisations. We want to listen before we see how we can fix it together. On the basis of this pilot project, among other things, we will incorporate evaluation into our existing structures that help to strengthen training, recruitment, diversity and integrity. In conclusion, I once again stress the importance of building good relations between the police and citizens, especially young people. These missions have been incorporated into my policy statement on the basis of our own analyses but also by listening to the voices of external partners such as the Youth Forum. I am firmly committed to continuing on this path and exploring concrete avenues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u63	Madam Minister, Sartre in closed Huis made his character say "hell, it's the others". In other words, life is felt and perceived through others and the image they send back to us. This feeling, as you have read, is unfortunately negative today. If we deplore the poor relations between young people and police, and not condemn them, it is our responsibility to improve them. I note your intention, your willingness to undertake. I note your willingness to do better, to do more, and I hope that the pilot projects will give way to structural ambitions. A hand is stretched out for you. I hope that there will be another one to seize it and co-build the future with young people who have expressed, through their answers, their willingness to be active actors in the relations and society of tomorrow. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u64	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u65	I propose that you devote a single discussion to these two projects. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two drafts. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u67	Madam President, I refer to the written report for both draft laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u68	Madam President, the discussions we had in the committees six months ago are of little use today. At that time, we announced by royal decree whether it was a good decision. We have made legal-technical comments, and often also substantive comments, if we did not agree. With regard to the ratification of these whole series of CSOs today, we can justify our voting behaviour by abstinence, because there were good and less good CSOs. One part had to be taken, another part was just a little less well put together. However, I cannot hide my resentment today. It is an endorsement of KBs that have been taken in very special circumstances. You know the situation and the context. We had a power of attorney government, a government that actually had only one mission, the approach to the corona crisis. That one assignment turned out to be a great failure, and at the same time a great failure, hence my agitated feeling. Then we were at the top of the world with 10,000 dead. In the meantime, we have set up a special co-vid committee to examine what has gone wrong there. In that committee we have heard several experts. Richard Horton literally said that most of the thousands of deaths could have been avoided during the first wave. That's very harsh. I don't mean to read my entire coronablunder book for this, but I'd like to point out that there's been a very big mistake. It is therefore with a very harsh feeling that we will be voting on these KBs today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u69	Madam President, normally I am not in favour of powers of attorney or special powers, but exceptional circumstances sometimes require exceptional measures. A health crisis that has not occurred before for many generations is an exceptional circumstance which has therefore justified exceptional measures with special powers. They have functioned in politically unclear circumstances under a government in ongoing cases, supported by a minority of barely 38 Chamber seats. In such extremely difficult circumstances, regulations could be made to try to ensure people's health, to try to ensure people's safety and to help the healthcare sector. Families, businesses and associations were also helped. In my view, this was a piece of work, and for that I would like to thank the members of the government at the time, as well as the Members of Parliament within the committee responsible, beyond the party boundaries. In parallel there were conflicts in the formation of the government or the 'government non-formation', but yet the government and parliamentarians managed to achieve these things accurately. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been a pointless exercise, since the current government uses various rules issued by royal decree in the current second wave that we are faced with, not only in our country, but also in other countries. Maybe we didn't do everything perfectly, we admit that, but many things have happened wonderfully and in other countries too, in difficult circumstances, not everything has gone perfectly. The fact that the current government finds inspiration in part of the legislation at the time, on which we vote in the next few days and weeks, shows that good efforts were also made at that time. I would like to thank the then government and the Members of Parliament who have worked very constructively in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the PVDA was the only party to vote against the Power of Power Act in March. The traditional parties have looked at us in the wrong way, but if we look at the course we have taken, then we have to see that our concerns and our fears have proved to be justified afterwards. After all, a large part of the working population quickly lost confidence in dealing with the crisis. The sad highlight came when the former Prime Minister at the St-Pieters Hospital was welcomed to a honorary hall of her turned back care staff. We have also heard a great deal of criticism of the powers of civil society, a number of constitutional specialists, the League of Human Rights and the trade unions. We have therefore voted against the power of attorney for a number of reasons. I'll walk them over here. Firstly, the nature of the powers of attorney was much wider than just intervention in the field of health care and health policy. After all, the government has reserved the right to intervene in many other areas, both economic and social and legal. In this way, it has completely outplayed Parliament in all these areas. The Council of State also criticised this way of working because an opinion stated that powers of attorney should be defined and defined very clearly and precisely. In practice, however, we have seen that the government has defined the areas in which it would not intervene, i.e. the reverse logic. Moreover, Parliament has shown that it can work very quickly and efficiently because ironically, the power of attorney law itself has been chased by Parliament in three days. The very important law on bank guarantee, the financial bazooka of then finance minister De Croo, has also been rushed through Parliament very quickly. However, the Council of State stated that powers of attorney can only be used in exceptional circumstances at a time when the normal procedure would jeopardise the public interest. Well, if we look at how certain laws, including the power of attorney law, came about during the lockdown due to the corona crisis, it turns out we didn't actually need those powers of attorney. Despite our opposition to the powers of attorney, we have, of course, examined and examined every measure and, of course, we have also supported the royal decisions which have protected the health of the people, and in particular the working population. However, the whole debate was moved to the back rooms instead of to Parliament. Those powers of attorneys were unnecessary to deal with this crisis. It is true that the Wilmès government did not have a majority in Parliament at that time. That is all the more reason to open the debate. It is not an argument to regulate everything and petite committee. The second reason why the PVDA-PTB does not want to give the government a blank cheque in all these areas is because we fear that the government would unilaterally take a number of antisocial measures to the detriment of the working population, without participation or consultation with the social partners. Unfortunately, we have also been right on this point. A number of measures relating to the flexibility of the labour market taken in this crisis period have also been on the list of many employers' organisations and the right-wing parties for a very long time. At one point, a royal decree included the decision to increase the number of voluntary overtime to 220. It was also decided that student labour could be applied unlimitedly in all those essential critical sectors. Targeted measures might have been something to say, but it applied to all these sectors, i.e. to two thirds of workers. Surely that has missed its purpose. In normal circumstances, that would never have gone beyond social dialogue. The trade unions have always resisted this. However, it has been implemented. No one has been able to explain to me so far how this measure has contributed to the fight against the health crisis. Nor could the government really intervene to protect the working population. Think of the wave of free layoffs because a back door was found in the royal decree that regulated temporary unemployment. That back door wasn't closed because of the force majeure. A lot of employers have used this to put people on the cheap and put them on unemployment. At that time, it was failed to take responsibility for correcting that error by royal decree. Lots of people got laid off for free that way. Despite the powerful instrument in the government's hands, it refused to take decisive measures against the banking sector. After all, people were given a delay in payment, but the deadline for payment of the mortgage loan remained the same. Moreover, we also received a lot of reports in the field that borrowers were being delayed, but that additional costs were being charged to grant the postponement. However, the agreement with the banking sector was that it could postpone mortgage loans and companies in exchange for a state guarantee for new loans. We have seen in the field that this was going smoothly for large companies. For the small owner of a house or apartment it went much harder. So two sizes and two weights were used. The most well-known antisocial measure was that for the care sector; I may not need to remind you of the images of the care staff. The government decided to take a large number of caretakers and non-qualified personnel by royal decree. Many people, including those in the healthcare sector themselves, were not satisfied with this. Had the government at that time consulted the trade unions or made a minimum of consultations, it would have realised that it would no longer have to take the royal decision at that time. Fortunately, under pressure from the care staff, the royal decree was subsequently repealed. Thirdly, there have been a number of questionable cases in the area of democratic enforcement. Many thousands of gas fines have been issued for infringements of the law, even before the then Minister of Justice, who himself admitted that they were illegal at the time. Recently, constitutional specialists again expressed concern about the disproportionate and unconstitutional measures that have suddenly become commonplace in the crisis. Think of the introduction of curfew by the mayor of Willebroek. Nevertheless, we have always supported strict corona measures, provided they are constitutionally anchored and democratically regulated and proportionate. While the citizens received tens of thousands of fines, which they often had to pay directly, we also saw that many companies that had not respected the corona directives had to be notified and not even fined. In July and August 2020, the social inspection, which is already understaffed, checked a lot of companies. It appeared that six out of ten companies were in default. In addition, nine out of ten companies that were in default came off with a written warning. There are therefore also two measures, two weights. PVDA voted against the measures because they unnecessarily restrict democracy, open the door to anti-social measures and create a slippery area of democracy in the enforcement of these measures. We just want more democratic debate and involvement of the people rather than everything in backrooms with powers of attorney. From now on, let us continue to hold a democratic debate on the future approach to the crisis and on a very important question that will become increasingly urgent, namely how we will pay for the crisis. Who's gonna pay for the corona bill? I look forward to having that debate in Parliament soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u71	Madam President, my speech will be rather brief. Taking the floor now is above all an opportunity to welcome a management of the health crisis that has brought together, beyond their differences, the various democratic parties. Let's be clear! It wasn't always easy. I remember these extended Kern meetings. But everyone has ensured that the differences do not undermine the essential, namely the management of the crisis itself. On the basis of the various decrees of special powers, it is certain that we, at the cdH, refused to validate, such as those on the financing of hospitals or serological tests. But our opposition to them was less motivated by what they contained than by what they did not contain. There are others that we have reluctantly validated, such as those on the requisition of health care personnel or on the delegation of certain acts to unqualified personnel to pose them. By the way, I fought for them to be withdrawn as soon as possible. I am pleased that this may have been the case. But given the nature of the two bills that leave us no choice but to confirm the orders or to refuse to do so, with the result that they will disappear retroactively, and especially given the consequences that such a refusal would have, we will of course vote, with a sense of collective responsibility, in favour of confirming all the orders included in the two bills. There are also many to which we have contributed our support - Maggie De Block will remember - in the many exchanges we have had on the subject. What we want with this favourable vote, of course, is not to add legal chaos to health chaos by rejecting it. I believe that we cannot afford it and that we must be able, in relation to what our personal aspirations or partisan positions may have been on some issues, to put the general interest above all other considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief and draw inspiration from my predecessor, Mr Maxime Prévot. Necessity is law! The health and economic crisis that we have been facing since the spring required us to support such urgent and necessary measures. We must stress that these measures aimed at limiting the health but also social and economic impact were essential. They were therefore taken very quickly. It is true that the discussions in this famous enlarged kern were not always easy. The ten trainings that took part in the exercise sometimes had to "wrong on their own" and accept or negotiate orders that might not be entirely in line with what they would have wanted; they had to fight for some arrests to be withdrawn - I am thinking of the one that dealt with the requisition of hospital staff. In the end, if the two bills confirming the royal orders of special powers were not passed by Parliament, then all the measures taken during the first phase of the epidemic should be considered as having never existed. It is easy to understand that this is a hypothesis that cannot be considered. Therefore, although my group has not been particularly excited about the content of some of the decrees of special powers - in particular the text on communal administrative sanctions (SAC) - we will support the two bills confirming the measures taken during the first wave of the epidemic. Indeed, the general interest must take precedence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u73	Is anyone still asking for the floor? (Non) Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u74	We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1441. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1441/3) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1441. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1441/3) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1442. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1442/4) We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 1442. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1442/4) The bill has 34 articles. The draft law has 34 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u77	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Dieter Vanbesien, Kristof Calvo, Séverine de Laveleye, Kim Buyst, Julie Song, Barbara Creemers, Laurence H annoyance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Vandenbroucke. He is absent and refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u79	Madam President, I shall begin with a positive note. Fortunately, Mr Vanbesien's and others' bill, as it now stands after amendment, no longer provides for a retro activity for 2020, so that the tax on a company car will at least not increase, as a Christmas present, but that is also the only good news we can report. The authors of the proposal argue that the increase in the average CO2 emissions of new cars would not lead to a tax reduction. First of all, I find it strange that the proposers are determined to avoid any reduction in taxes on a company car. The legislator has chosen to calculate the benefit of all types of an individual car compared to the average CO2 emissions of the new registered cars in the reference period of the year before. In this way, the legislator wants to avoid that the technical evolution, as in the case of the fiscal KPs, undermines the taxable basis. The average CO2 emissions from the new registration may remain the same year after year, increase or decrease. The average will generally fall, but in 2019 and 2020 the reference CO2 emissions increased slightly as people bought more petrol cars and SUVs. According to the applicants, the users of a company car would not have expected a reduction. That's the reasoning. However, the same users did not expect to be able to use their payroll car during the spring lockdown for eight weeks, while continuing to pay the tax. The cleaning aid, the people of the White-Yellow Cross, the self-employed, the entrepreneurs and hundreds of thousands of other people with a pay car will be delighted to hear such reasoning. The reasoning is not consistent either, unless, of course, it is felt that taxes should always rise or at most remain the same. That is what this bill is doing right. Secondly, the tax on commercial vehicles will increase from 2021, with or without this bill. That doesn't change anything. Indeed, the reference coefficient will fall again as a result of further electrification of the car market. As a new value, the car sector pushes forward 102 grams per kilometre for diesel cars and 84 grams per kilometre for petrol cars. This bill doesn't change anything. This ultimately involves an increase in taxes of on average EUR 300 per year for those who own a company car, but it does not stop there. Next year, without any adjustment for the new Homologised models that only have the new calculation method WLTP, there will also be a tax increase of 300 euros per year. This method provides on average about 30 grams more CO2 emissions per kilometre compared to the old method. This means that the tax on commercial vehicles will certainly increase by EUR 600 on average over the next two years. The Flemish Government has taken a very different approach: it adjusts traffic taxes and the tax on entry through the programme decree so that the higher WLTP values do not lead to a global tax increase. I therefore regret that the purple-green team is not doing anything about this tax increase, but, on the contrary, it is putting its energy into tightening the method of calculating this tax by legally laying down that the reference rate cannot increase in the future. In this sense, I can only see the legislative proposal in the broader trend of this government, in which taxes are sneaking up, without those increases being embedded in a broader tax reform and a shift towards less taxes for those who work, save or undertake.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u80	Madam President, about a year ago, I pointed out a certain undesirable side effect of the law on pay-cars. Sometime in December 2019, I asked the Minister of Finance at the time De Croo whether he agreed with me that this was an undesirable side effect. He replied that this was indeed the case. One of the parameters used to calculate the load on the salary wagons is the reference CO2 emissions, which represents the average CO2 emissions of all new cars sold the year before. When the law was drafted, the legislator assumed that the average CO2 emissions of new cars would decrease year after year due to technological progress. However, both in 2019 and 2020, the average CO2 emissions of new cars increased. That was unexpected, but that is because Mr Donné has already referred to it in Belgium in recent years heavy cars of the type SUV, which have increased emissions, are often bought. However, I do not agree with your reference to so-called dedieselization, Mr Donné. There have been campaigns in recent years to encourage people to buy a petrol car instead of a diesel car. A petrol car is much more profitable in terms of particulate matter emissions, but has higher CO2 emissions. This parameter is double calculated. There is the parameter for the diesel cars and there is the parameter for the petrol cars. The fact that there is a shift from diesel to petrol has no impact on this parameter. This means that both within the petrol and diesel vehicles there is a tendency to buy larger, heavier cars. The effect of this is that both in 2019 and in 2020, the tax advantage that is already a salary car will be even greater. This is, of course, an undesirable effect, because CO2 emissions are increasing and this is rewarded by a greater tax advantage. That is the opposite of what we really want. That is why there is this bill, to ensure that this can no longer happen, that this particular parameter can no longer rise in the future. So this is the repair of an undesirable side effect in the existing law. It took his time. We're a year later. The Finance Committee is not known to work out legislative proposals smoothly, but we finally got there. Mr Donné, I would like to refer to your claim regarding the tax increase. It would please you if you would stop spreading falsehoods, as you have done in social media. This parameter was not modified in 2020. That didn't happen. So there has been no impact on the tax. In 2021, the parameter will automatically go down, so this mechanism will not be activated in 2021. If it were to be activated in the future, it would not be a tax increase, but rather a tax reduction because of more CO2 emissions. A tax must also be steering and we want to steer it in the right direction, not in the opposite direction. I suspect that the Flemish interest will soon speak the same nonsense. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have finally received great support for this proposal. I'm glad we can finally get rid of this anomaly today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u81	Mr Vanbesien, it would be a good thing if you listened to my speech and did not read anything you wrote in advance. I have not said at any time in my speech that you may come and read them, that the bill increases taxes. I even said that your bill makes no difference to the level of taxation. That's literally in here. I even said that twice. What I did say was that you did not take the opportunity to do something about the tax increase that will be there anyway. I said that you are not doing anything, as the Flemish Government does, about the average EUR 600 tax increase per company car user. I suggest that next time you listen carefully to what I am saying and that you do not continue with what I said earlier in an intervention. Finally, "nonsense"? We have talked a lot about new political culture lately. Perhaps the nuance and respect that the opposition gives to the majority should also be used in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u82	Mr Donné, I referred to the messages you launched last week through your social media. You said that this proposal would lead to a tax increase in 2021. That's not true. I can only describe that as nonsense. If you'd rather hear the word "falseness," I'll use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u83	Mr Vanbesien, you can blame me for saying nonsense here, but I think you must be Madame Blanche, because I have not even said anything here and you are already drawing conclusions. I can only conclude from this that you are deaf to any debate in Parliament. For the Flemish Interest, there should be no sacred houses. Anything can and may be called into question, but let one thing be clear: the Flemish interest stands for fair and just taxation. What I see in this legislative proposal is the unbridled envy for commercial vehicles, where the Greens have once again smelled an opportunity, now that they are on the buttons. The authors initially assume that there is a tax injustice, as they call it, but I do not stand for the baking bicycle company, which the Greens do stand for. What bothers me throughout the debate is that very often the term salary cars is also used and not commercial cars. It's all getting messed up. That is wrong, because some workers simply need a car to do their job. I am thinking, among other things, of representatives and engineers who have to start and follow up projects. It seems logical to me that the value advantage for private use should be taxed, but the legislator must seriously reflect. A number of years ago, excise duties on diesel were increased and those on petrol were reduced to discourage diesel drivers and to encourage consumers to buy more petrol cars. However, this led to more petrol drivers and thus an increase in average emissions, even though there is a difference between diesel and petrol in the value advantage. We believe that the reference figures for emissions would increase. The problem may lie in this and the colleague has just referred to it in the new WLTP standard, which results in a higher average CO2 emissions. From 1 January 2021, when determining the taxable advantage, all types of benefit can be taken into account either the NEDC CO2 value, which applies if the Audi A4 has only a NEDC value, which applies to the slightly older Audi A4s, or the WLTP CO2 value, if known, which de facto means that there will be a higher CO2 or one of the two values known as both. In itself, that seems to be something, but the WLTP standard will also reduce tax deductibility in corporate tax. With that, the taxis actually passes twice past the cash register. The WLTP regulation, which came about in the aftermath of the affair with the rigging software in cars, has ensured that the CO2 values are calculated more correctly. This has resulted in an increase in the average CO2 values, which will eventually be reflected in the reference emissions. Anyone who wants a correct representation of the CO2 must also be so correct as to adapt the reference emissions to reality. If that doesn't happen, they're basically gonna eat off both sides. If it falls, which is what this bill is about, you will be the first to change the regulations so that employees will pay more taxes. However, as soon as reference emissions rise, you look up, you have seen nothing and everything remains the same. Mr Vanbesien, I now call that unjust. The higher the reference emissions, the lower the value advantage for the employee, which would imply a lower load. By blocking that standard, one wants to ensure that the advantage cannot ultimately decrease all nature. In our opinion, reference emissions cannot be regarded as lucrative. It is only a reference when reality is effectively reflected in it. By establishing a soil, reality is very clearly affected. The government would much better take the necessary measures so that the companies can make a change to cleaner cars in an affordable way. This bill will ultimately impose additional burdens on both companies by further restricting the deductibility and touching the employee's wallet. One must stop creating the illusion that every company car is a pay car. Colleagues, an advantage of all kinds is ultimately based on two things, on the one hand CO2 emissions and, on the other hand, on catalogue value. Cars are already becoming more expensive, thus increasing the taxable advantage. For identical the same car, the WLTP will pay a lot more than the equivalent of the NEDC. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see the whole framework as a whole. The starting point was not correct here. That's what I just said. This bill de facto amounts to an increase in the employee's tax burden because the rules will be updated in 2021 with the new WLTP rules anyway. That is why we cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u84	Madam President, much has already been said about the mechanism and the fact that when commercial vehicles can be used privately, their users can also be taxed for private use, on an advantage of all kinds. That advantage of all kinds is then linked to, among other things, the average CO2 emissions. The idea behind this link was indeed in the past that average CO2 emissions would decrease as the cars improve. As Mr Vanbesien explained, something happened in 2019 and 2020 that was not expected, namely an increase in average CO2 emissions, which suddenly created a more tax-friendly regime, namely that the benefit of all kinds was greater. What this bill does is not go back to the past. It doesn't go back to 2019 or 2020. There will be no remedial chips or anything. That's where everything stays. What this bill does do is look to the future. The aim is to avoid the same effect. Then it is not a question of envying company cars at all, but of a different kind of logic. If CO2 emissions are rising, it is not logical at this time for an additional tax advantage to be added. So it is indeed a legislative proposal that does nothing more than put an end to that undesirable side effect, but in a realistic way: by looking only at the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u85	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u86	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (904/10) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (904/10) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Hervé Rigot, rapporteur, refers to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u89	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1644/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1644/3) The bill has 7 articles. The draft law contains 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u91	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: 1044:Sophie De Wit, Kristof Calvo. 1062: Raoul Hedebouw, Peter Mertens, Marco Van Hees, Nadia Moscufo, Maria Vindevoghel, Roberto D'Amico.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Barbara Pas. Would you like to speak, Mrs Pas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u93	I refer to the written report, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u94	Madam President, I wish to speak on this proposal which will be voted on today because it marks the end of a long process. We started this work under the last legislature. This is a very positive outcome. We finally open the doors and windows of the federal Parliament. As ecologists, we are delighted. We are very committed to all forms of citizen participation, to what can bring citizens into Parliament to participate. Today, they can follow the proceedings by video, and come to the parliamentary committee to listen. We have always pleaded, for a long time, that they should be able to participate, with the elected representatives, in the discussions. The initiative we are going to vote on today is a first step that will allow citizens to come to Parliament to present a project for which they have managed to obtain at least 25,000 signatures throughout the country. This is a major step towards a more participatory democracy, which brings citizens closer to political decisions. This is done at the local and regional levels. Very interesting initiatives are taking place today in the German-speaking Community, and in Brussels, with citizens who will co-create them, participate in them, and even vote in parliamentary committees with elected representatives. Having both is really a wealth: elected officials and citizens drawn by lot. Here we take a first step. Citizens will be able to come and present a proposal to a parliamentary committee. That was not possible so far. That's extremely positive. This noon, a presentation of the entire platform took place. It is important to communicate this outwards, and to show our fellow citizens that this is possible. We can register. You showed it this morning, Madam President, with other colleagues. You can register and collect signatures electronically. I hope that next year, when we emerge from the health crisis, and I hope that it will be as soon as possible, we will be able to welcome citizens into the parliamentary committee, to debate with them, and to exchange texts that they will submit to us, elected. This will enable us to move forward together towards improvements on major issues. I am thinking of the climate challenge, but it may relate to the functioning of our institutions, social protection or economic redeployment. The subjects may be diverse and varied; but I dream that by the end of 2021 the parliamentary committee could have welcomed citizens and debated with them. This is an important step forward that Parliament is making today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u95	Madam President, I think it is very good that there is more citizen participation. That is something that we have been asking for for for a long time. I remember how this discussion came about in the Working Party on Political Renewal during the previous legislature. I must, however, attach a great deal of importance to this effect. The law was passed last year and this is its translation into our Rules of Procedure so that it can finally be applied. With regard to the large but I had tabled amendments to the original legislative proposal, but they did not make it. The big one is in the law and in the Rules of Procedure. The honourable Member said just now - and his colleague Calvo wrote it very enthusiastically, too, that the windows and doors of our institution are being thrown open. This is true for a number of things, but one forgets to mention that an important brake has been installed immediately. While it is precisely the intention that, by collecting 25,000 signatures, citizens should be able to discuss every subject without taboos in this Parliament, they are at the same time building a lock, a Community lock, because those 25,000 signatures must follow a certain key. The petition must be signed by at least 8,000 inhabitants of the Walloon Region, at least 2,500 Brusselsers and at least 14,000 Flemings. I wonder, and I think I already know the answer, why that bolt is built in. The two parts of this country vote differently. This is evident from the results of the elections. There are things that we want to go a completely different direction. What if 25,000 Flemings say they'd like to open the debate in the Chamber about the division of social security? Or suppose 25,000 Flemings would like to put on the agenda that the excellence in this Chamber should be perfectly bilingual, that all excellence should also be Dutch perfectly powerful. Or suppose that the theme regarding the preparation of a Flemish independence wants to be put on the table by a lot of people. It is not obvious, of course, that this number of votes should be obtained in Brussels and Wallonia. So it is with some disappointment that I find that in that idyllic meeting place there will be no place for the classic Flemish demands. Of course, that also applies in the opposite direction. I'm gonna miss that inclusivity because of this lock. What I am in favour of is the fact that mustard has been produced in Europe. There, the system requires 100,000 signatures from at least 7 Member States to be able to put this on the agenda with petitions. I am hopeful, not because I want to take a great example from that European Union, but because it seems that Belgium is seen as a kind of European Union in its own right when it comes to getting mustard. This union is a partnership between sovereign states. So there's still hope. Madam President, I shall leave it at that. It is a good thing that there is finally more citizen participation, but we have missed opportunities. In my view, there should be absolutely no barriers and barriers, no distinction should be made between Walloon, Brussels or Flemish signatures. That is why my group will abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u96	Colleagues, I am not going to hide my disappointment. My group and I were delighted with citizen participation. I mean, we were gonna open the windows! Finally, we will really allow citizens to take a place in participatory democracy that is not limited to elections once every year. When I hear colleagues say we open the window, I feel like we put a small window block very quickly, that little tool that we slam to make sure there are only three or four centimetres of opening. I really felt in all the parliamentary debates how quickly the stress came up to the idea of saying, "What are we going to do with all those citizens who are going to land here? They're gonna talk about hours and hours. It's going to be uncontrolled and uncontrollable. Our work as parliamentarians will be put in trouble." I read in the report but I am not going to quote the party because there is no reason to point the finger at a particular party: "The citizen must be heard and confidence must be restored but the role of the legislator must be assumed by the legislator. Furthermore, it is important to avoid the fact that the committees are no longer able to function properly because of this." - Ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully! - "from an accumulation of citizens' initiatives that would become" - this is really the ultimate danger – "citizen laws that would be referred to committee on the basis of the wishes of the authors". It's terrifying. When we read the report, we wonder what this danger is going to happen to us. I really like the Dutch translation, and I quote: 'The citizen must be heard and confidence restored, but the role of the legislator must be taken up by the legislator. Moreover, it is important to avoid making it more difficult for committees to operate because they are overburdened by citizens' initiatives which would even become civil laws and would be referred to committees on the basis of the applicants' wishes." It is felt in the parliamentary debate that the door can only be opened in a very small way. The debate is not abstract at all. He's even very technical. The first question relates to the question of whether there should be a limitation on speaking time. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time limit for Members to speak, and God knows that some people abuse and abuse them! Yet they are not always the most exciting. But I'm not here to judge. I am just saying that the question of speaking time is not a problem in this Parliament. Why the right of parliamentarians to speak for hours and hours during the consideration of a bill does not pose a problem when the speaking time of citizens is limited to a maximum of ten minutes. Why? What are you afraid of? People will come here to participate in democracy, explain their point of view, give examples. Maybe they'll even come up to three or four. Hold on tight! Imagine the disaster! Maybe all three or four of them will even speak out. What are you afraid of? What is the problem? Let's open the door! Let's get some fresh air in here! We need it here where not a window is open to the world! A little fresh air would have done us good! This is the second point I would like to make. A citizen voice is great! How could it be a problem to submit to this Parliament laws drafted by the citizens? If you do not agree with a proposal, vote against or abstain! You can also vote in favour. There's no problem. What explains this stress? Why, at all costs, must these citizens' initiatives hang up on bills written by gentlemen and ladies of parliament so that they can say in the press that they have introduced the bill, that they agree with the citizens. No! Allow citizens to introduce laws themselves and explain them themselves here before you vote on them! That's how to open the windows, bring some fresh air! It would do good! We haven't had fresh air here for 150 years! I do not understand why we are hiding this historic opportunity to have a citizens' initiative law. We could have a small window block of three or four centimetres! And that's not theory. The first citizens' initiative law has already been introduced. 180,000 signatures were collected to submit a citizens' bill on a minimum pension of EUR 1,500 net. That is a very concrete debate: net, gross, what will happen in 2024? For that, 180,000 signatures were collected. How long have we been waiting to have this debate in Parliament? Nine months we've been waiting. When I ask the committee what is going on with that, I get the answer: we are still trying to find out if those signatures are real. It takes 25,000 signatures, and there were 180,000. I really don't understand what the problem is. I have also argued in committee for the right to speak for the citizen. People don't want to hear themselves speak for hours and hours like MPs. They will have a certain limit. Allow a citizen's law to be put to the vote autonomously, without a legislative proposal from a Member of Parliament. I really don't think this is a problem. Then everyone can just vote on it as they please. For me, these are the two major problems with such an initiative, which makes it not a good initiative. There is a hand brake for citizens' initiatives, and that is not a good signal to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u97	Madam President, in another register, even though it is always sensible and pleasant to hear Mr Hedebouw – regardless of the form and emphasis he puts on it – we can consider that, in substance, what is proposed to us today is a step in the right direction, which should be welcomed. That's what I was going to do. That said, it should not be presented as the trophy of the century, since improvements will still have to be made. Nevertheless, we are pleased to see more concrete implementation of the citizens' initiative enshrined in the law of May 2, 2019, which emerged from the work on political renewal. The purpose of this proposed amendment to the Rules of the House is to implement the above-mentioned Act on Petitions to the House of Representatives. This text, which emerged from the work of political renewal in which we participated, transformed the right to petition into a fully-fledged citizen initiative, so that citizens could put the topics on the political agenda, giving petitioners the right to be heard by the House in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in its Rules of Procedure. The proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives is therefore intended to define these modalities. The law is an interesting step towards a more participatory democracy. It is only a step, but it is better to walk step by step, than to rush at the risk of tripping and falling. In any case, such an approach seems to us all the more useful as it aims to better articulate participatory democracy, to which we remain committed, with parliamentary democracy, which also remains an essential pillar of the rule of law. In this way, one will be able to feed, enrich and even push the other. We had already enjoyed it. We are also pleased that the Rules of the House can now be amended to make this step forward, which is represented by the Act of May 2, 2019. I will not be longer, Madam Chair, to welcome this progress on which the House authorities have already been able to communicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the new Vivaldi majority has great ambitions in terms of democratisation and openness to citizens. We will see to the use and see if they will break into reality or not. In the meantime, we must be able to welcome every small step in the right direction, in this case today's. Injecting more participatory democracy into the functioning of our parliamentary democracy has always been a priority for my group. Several initiatives have been put in place in a series of municipalities where we are the majority. This works very well, especially at the local level. We have proposed, under the previous legislature, that the referendum of citizens' initiative be enshrined in the Constitution. We are convinced that closer involvement of the citizen in the democratic and parliamentary process is an excellent thing if we do it step by step. In this context, the proposal to amend the Rules of the House, which is being put to our vote this afternoon, is in fact a continuation of the Act of 2 May 2019 and the work of the Political Renewal Working Group, and this is a good step forward. This is intended to make operational at the level of the Rules of the House, and in particular at the level of the Petitions Commission, the Act of 2 April 2019 which transformed the petition into a full citizen initiative and confirmed the right of petitioners to be heard by the House under certain conditions. It's a real breakthrough. It is indeed important to open windows. Our attention is drawn to the fact that, if the conditions for a hearing are not met, the petition may be referred to the Minister, the College of Federal Ombudsmen or the competent commission on which an obligation of result will be imposed. Of course, it is still possible for the Petitions Committee to classify the petition, but in any case time limits and arrangements are provided for the traceability of the petition to be, in a way, ensured. In addition, the analyses and decisions of the Petitions Committee will be the subject of quarterly reports. We will see in practice what will emerge and whether this provision makes a little more participatory democracy effective in this House, but it certainly corresponds to a healthy development in order to strengthen the people's adherence to our parliamentary democracy, which certainly remains representative but needs new blood.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to know what is to be voted on. It has just been indicated, it concerns the modalities for implementing the law of 2 May 2019. After that law had been passed, we had to work out its modalities. That is what is before us today and not at the heart of the law itself. As we did in 2019, I fully endorse the basic criticism of the law itself, which, for example, has a huge distortion from a Community point of view. That is the criticism we are making. It is, of course, very bizarre that 25,000 people from one region of the country seem not to be equal to 25,000 people from various regions of the country. It is incomprehensible that those who wrote the law of May 2, 2019, the principle of "I shall now put it in those terms "one Belgian is equal to one Belgian" have seriously violated it. That's manipulation of what citizen participation should be. Those involved have clearly manipulated this with certain underlying intentions. That is a particularly bad element which has crept into that law and against which we, even then, they have resisted in vain. That's not what's going on today. Today, the modalities are ahead of us. Once a law has been passed, it must also be made possible. Nevertheless, I would very much like to repeat this criticism here, because it is far-reaching. A very brief response to colleague Hedebouw. Citizen participation is very important and I can still hope that the most important form of civic participation in our democracy will take place in the electoral booth. There the proportions are weighed and determined in a serious way. For example, when reference is made to petitions with 150,000 or more signatures, that is translated into Chamber seats two. The DéFI colleagues represent 150 000 voters, I think, and that has consequences, namely that they are rightly represented here in the hemisphere, but of course with the weight attached to that number. If a particular group of citizens wants to put a particular item on the agenda, we must pay attention to it, but I repeat that the core of democracy remains the one where the weights are measured and everyone is taken into account, not just the most activist citizens. In this sense, the modalities are as defined and as criticized by Mr Hedebouw, are really in line with the basic principles of representative democracy, which means that a small minority cannot appear more than it is in the facts. How and in what way the citizens' initiative will receive a translation at a certain time will be shown here. However, I would like to say, specifically about the example that Mr Hedebouw refers to, that his group consists of more than enough people to put that issue on the parliamentary agenda. They have all the means to make every effort to put it to the vote here. We shall then see how that is dealt with. The fact that public opinion can make us aware of things that we have lost sight of is a good and positive thing. I think it is particularly important that the principles of representative democracy are taken into account in the modalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u100	Mr De Roover, I'm being interviewed by you. I do believe that the PVDA's vision of what democracy should be is different from that of the N-VA. You say that everything should actually be reduced to what happens in the voting booth, but I really do not agree with that. Democracy is much more than once every two or three years to vote. It is very important for citizens to be able to intervene in decision-making every day, otherwise everything will be reduced to a large electoral campaign and citizens will no longer have control over what happens afterwards. Let me give you the theoretical example of the 2014 elections. The programme of the N-VA did not say that it wanted people to work for up to 67 years. Nor was there any indication in her program that there would be an index jump. That's right, isn't it? Do you remember that? Do you remember your 2014 program? The citizens went to the voting booth in 2014 and voted for the N-VA. On the day after the election King Bart De Wever says he will negotiate and raise the retirement age to 67 years. He was gonna negotiate, and there's gonna be an index jump. However, it is not just about the N-VA. Because Peter De Roover is having a discussion with me, I am talking about the N-VA, but that was actually the case with the four parties involved in the negotiations. None of these parties had in the programme that they should work for up to 67 years and that there would be an index jump. You did it, didn't you? That is fundamentally undemocratic. You lie to the people: you go to the elections with a program and say something else the next day. At that time, citizens should be able to indicate that there has been a lie through democratic, participatory processes. People must be able to come to Parliament and say that such a measure cannot be taken. That should not only be the monopoly of a party, even if it is the PVDA. We will, of course, often support the people. That's just our DNA, but that's not enough. The participatory democracy must be much wider. In that sense, Mr De Roover, you are right to vote on these proposals, but that is not the problem. My question is simply that citizens can put their own laws to the vote. Then you'll do whatever you want. Then you can still vote right and antisocially, as the N-VA has always done. My problem is that these proposals cannot be voted on. There will be a large filter in which citizen participation will have to take place through a party or legislative proposal. That is a real pity in this proposal. It clearly indicates how different the views of the N-VA and the PVDA on democracy are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u101	Debate leads to getting to know each other better. So this is a good debate. I fully agree with the decision. We have a completely different view of democracy. You say you're permanently behind the people. The election results show that you are a long way behind the people. The people don't even know you're behind it. After all, you remain rather limited in your success in the only real review of the popularity of your programme, namely in the voting booth. Of course, you can hide behind activist campaigns. I am in favour of that. For 30 years, I was active in civil society. For 30 years I have tried to engage as many people as possible professionally to engage in social activity, in all areas that are possible for that purpose. This can be in trade union matters, in youth movements or in the Flemish movement or in all kinds of fields. What I never claimed was representativeness as long as I did not venture a confrontation with the electorate. I've never claimed a representativeness that hadn't been tested. I was a spokesperson for an interest group. I therefore wished to be heard as a spokesman for that group of interests. At some point, however, there is only one body of order where the weight of that interest group can be measured, namely in this house. At the moment, that's a little less good for us. We ended up in the opposition. There have been better times and no doubt there will be better times again. I'll respect the voter's pronunciation. That's the basis of our model. The voter should not remain silent for four or five years, between two ballots. The citizen feeds us. The citizen sends signals to the politicians. You said that citizens should be able to intervene in decision-making every day. I think that is a very dangerous principle. At that time, we are losing the principles of democratic representation, which, of course, is only reflected in that voting booth. It is there that democratic prices are divided. So I'm in favour of civic participation. All my life is a symbol of the great civic participation in the social debate, and at a very blessed age I made the decision to present myself to the electorate, who then determined the weight of what I can bring into the decision-making process. Sometimes that's not as bad as the other time, I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u102	Madam President, I did not wish to get involved in the PTB-N-VA debate, but just to react to Mr Hedebouw's first reaction. That we are not going far enough with this text, I can hear it perfectly. As far as I am concerned, as far as my party and my political group are concerned, we would also like to be able to set up joint committees, as I said, with elected representatives and citizens drawn by lot. We would also like to be able to move forward on the transformation of the Senate into a citizens' assembly. We would also like to be able to put in place a right of citizens' initiative, i.e. that citizens can directly propose texts that could be voted on in Parliament. I think it's interesting. The Constitution must be changed, which requires a two-thirds majority with a quorum in each linguistic group. I am quite prepared to make further progress in this direction. I can understand that we want to be more ambitious. We're environmentalists. But what I don't understand, and I'm sorry, is that you make a fool of what's done here. Honestly, I can't accept it. Yeah, that's a step. We would also like to go further. But it's a step. That is how we can move towards more participatory democracy and convince colleagues from other parties - perhaps not yet fully convinced, but by the end of 2021, at the end of 2022, perhaps, at the end of the legislature. At that point, we can go further together. I want to say: do something about it! Engage in the working groups that formed during the last legislature. Put down some texts! I'm telling you, I can understand that we have more ambition. But come and ridicule, as you have done, what is done here, and which is a step, according to us in a very good direction, I find it a shame. It breaks this initiative in the eyes of the citizens we are waiting for in Parliament, when it is laudable. She doesn't go far enough, but she's laudable. And ridiculing her, I don't think it's right. It serves politics. This serves the purpose we set ourselves here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u103	Madam President, I welcome the progress that has been made to modernize a little what Article 28 of the Constitution proposed. It's an interesting way and despite everything better than in the past. Indeed, with the identity card registration system, we can also see better the content of a petition even if we do not know the signatories. We can see and filter the petitions that we sometimes receive in our communes, which are filled with signatures without knowing who signs or if someone has signed ten times. Here, it's true that there are numbers. I heard my colleague's remark, Mr. De Roover, concerning the distribution of the number of signatures between the three Communities. The subject matter must be a federal subject at the risk of being rejected. If it is a federal matter, it obviously concerns the whole of our country, since it is possible federal provisions that will be taken or the people will react to. Rather, it is a good idea to make a distribution between the different regions of the country. If one tackles a problem which is national, it is normal for all the Communities to express themselves. I find this rather original. It is clear that this goes against certain movements or desires, but it corresponds to a reality that is our reality. I am therefore very pleased to see this proposal. This will make things a little more difficult, as it must be said, for citizens when there is no distribution throughout the territory of certain organisations. There are parties that are represented everywhere and they will certainly see it as an open door to encourage the citizen to intervene. I have no illusions about this, but it is also democracy. If a population spread across our territory expresses itself through a petition of 25,000 signatures and asks to be heard, we will listen to it and see how this claim can be addressed. We were therefore in favour of this modernization and we will, of course, vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u104	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u105	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1044/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1044/5) The proposal has 4 articles. The proposal contains 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u107	This proposal was adopted by the Committee on External Relations in accordance with Art. 76 of the Regulation. This proposal was adopted by the Committee on External Relations pursuant to Art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u108	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1684/2) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1684/2) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Wouter De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u109	Madam President, I will be presenting an oral report because yesterday the decision was taken in committee and the written report is not yet available. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure, the Conference of Presidents of 2 December instructed the Committee on External Relations to discuss the imminent implementation of Mr Djalali's death penalty and to report back to the plenary. For the discussion, the Committee based itself on a basic text tabled by Mrs Van Hoof as chairman of the Committee on External Relations. Ms Van Hoof pointed out that this text was based on a text already adopted by the Chamber in 2017 and emphasised in particular five requests, in particular not to execute Mr Djalali's execution, to pardon him, to ask for a fair trial, to request respect for human rights and to request a moratorium on the execution of the death penalty. According to the President, it is important that the Chamber should also give a signal, particularly in view of the numerous contacts that have taken place in the last few days of Belgian diplomacy in Iran, Sweden, our country and even Italy. It is necessary to give that signal as soon as possible, taking into account the conflicting messages of the last few days and even hours. The members of the committee agree with the urgency of the issue and support the idea of sending a clear signal. Mrs Safai pointed out that this was an important issue and that she had also taken an initiative in this area. It agrees with the text and proposes a number of text changes. These are partly included in the final text. In particular, it is a question of pressing for respect for human rights, which would certainly help to restore diplomatic relations with Iran, and of seeking agreement within the European Union in order to give as strong a common signal as possible. Mrs Safai, Mr De Vriendt, Mr Ben Achour, Mrs Samyn, Mr De Maegd, Mr De Vuyst, Mrs De Block, Mrs Reynaert and Mr Dallemagne stressed the urgency and the need to send a signal and express a unanimous position. Amendments are proposed by Mr De Maegd and Mr De Vriendt. The committee accepts the amendments to the basic text and unanimously adopts the motion for a resolution which the Committee on External Relations is now submitting to the plenary for discussion and for a vote. Madam President, may I continue with my group's reservations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u110	I shall first give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Van Hoof. It was also the first signatory to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u111	As chairman of the Committee on External Relations, I have indeed taken the initiative to put this issue on the agenda urgently, with broad support from all parties. Human dignity is what we are fighting for today, the idea that every human being deserves to be treated with dignity and fairness. This seems self-evident, but unfortunately it is not, because how Professor Djalali is treated by the Iranian regime is inhumane. Specializing in disaster medicine, his own life and that of his family has become disastrous. As a Swedish professor with guest lectures at the VUB, he regularly visited Iran to keep in touch with his colleagues to exchange knowledge. In 2016, his car was stopped by the intelligence services. He was questioned, offended, intimidated, captured and tortured. After seven months in prison, he gets to see a lawyer for the first time. In 2017 he was sentenced to espionage after a short and secret trial. Without evidence, without written judgment, he will be sentenced to death. Our country cannot agree to this course of action. Picking people off the road, locking them up, isolating them and condemning them to death without proof is impossible. This goes against all the fundamental principles our country stands for. He hasn't seen his family or his children in four years. His health is bad. Last week there were conflicting reports about the execution. Our country is putting all the pressure through the VUB, through human rights organisations, through all those who can, through our Foreign Minister, Mrs Wilmès, who has urged the Iranian Foreign Minister not to allow the execution to continue. I, too, in a personal conversation with the Iranian ambassador, urged forgiveness. Although there is a spiral of violence in Iran, with last week's murder of the nuclear physicist, which we also condemn, nothing is responsible for the death penalty. The Committee on External Relations was therefore unanimous in condemning this state of affairs. With the text before us today, we stress once again that respect for the rule of law and human rights are principles that we are not negotiating. We are using Djalali's situation to put diplomatic pressure on Iran. Of course, we are opposed to the professor's death penalty. More than that, we ask that pardon be granted. We specifically ask Iran to abolish the death penalty for all Iranian prisoners, young and old, men and women. In 2019 the death penalty was applied 657 times, of which more than 250 times in Iran. That is a particularly unenviable figure. The Committee on External Relations also states that Iran's attitude to human rights needs to be improved. Otherwise, this will affect our bilateral relations. We advocate this also at European level, and we will evaluate these relations in the light of this. It is therefore heartening that everyone is united on this text. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important day. We are sitting here together and we want to do everything in our power to ensure that Dr Djalali is released, who has been unjustly rotting in an Iranian prison for almost five years and has been sentenced to death. For three years he wakes up every morning thinking they'd come for him that day to be executed. Every day he misses his family, his family and friends, his work as a doctor and as a teacher, his colleagues. He misses the sunrise and a perspective, in short, an ordinary life. For five years he has been denied that right to live and misses the small and the big things of life. He suffers from distressing conditions of physical and psychological torture. I myself have been imprisoned in Iran, so I can imagine how terrible the situation must be for Ahmadreza Djalali. To give you an idea of how bad it is, I want to read a piece from my book Suddenly I couldn't laugh anymore. "In prison I missed everything, but especially the blue sky, which I hoped I could ever see again. And I wondered every day: 'Are they not forgetting me, out there in the outside world?' Two and a half meters on two, no mattress, no pillow and a mat on the ground. No sheets or blankets, no toilet or toilet pot. You had to call a guard to go to the communal bathroom with you. I had to fight the desperation. The prison in Iran is like a dark tunnel. You don't know if there's an exit or how far the other end could be. You don't know anything, not what will happen the next day, not even the next hour. I felt sad, a little anxious, too. At worst, I could get the death penalty to set an example. It wouldn't be the first time such a thing has happened in Iran. I was strong. I didn't want them to see that I'm scared or sad. A few hours later, I had to go to court. It's in the same building. One man in one small room, accompanied by an interrogator. No prosecutor, no lawyer. This is a revolutionary court." As you may know, Dr. Djalali didn't get a fair trial either. He is innocent and he is the victim of a disgusting regime that has been holding innocent people hostage for years to use them as a token for a trade with Iranian terrorists imprisoned abroad. Colleagues, can you ever imagine travelling to Iran and being accused of espionage there, and then ending up in the prison of the ayatollahs without any hope or prospect? It is now up to the government to step up its pace and do everything it can to avoid the execution and demand its immediate and unconditional release. We must make it clear to them that if they continue with the execution, this will have serious consequences for our diplomatic relationship. The regime in Iran speaks loud language, threatens and manipulates. Belgium would like to reconcile. However, there will come a time when we must say that it has been enough and that we will not be allowed to do so. Yesterday we worked together across the party boundaries to draw up a text in which we ask the government to help bring about the release of Professor Djalali. After all, if crime is not linked to serious consequences, then believe me, there will be nothing to change that unacceptable and horrible behaviour. Then it is not safe for anyone to travel to Iran. I would like to thank everyone who is committed to Djalali and defending human rights in Iran. I hope that we will be able to work together in the future in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is very welcome news that we will soon be able to adopt this resolution unanimously across party boundaries. The Chamber is united: from Belgium there is a unanimous demand not to allow the execution of Mr Djalali to take place. find him and release him as soon as possible. Belgium is united and we have been united for a number of years. It has just been said: a similar question was adopted here a few years ago. Not only in the Chamber, but also in the Flemish Parliament, the Brussels Parliament, the Parliament of the Walloon-Brussels Federation, the European Parliament, the Senate. On top of that, the diplomatic efforts and initiatives of our Minister over the last few days. This proves that a strong signal is being sent from Belgium. Then it is up to the Iranian authorities to have an ear for that or not. This signal also comes from other European countries. I would also like to say a few words about the context of our diplomatic relations with Iran. Of course there is much more to this than the possible execution of Ahmed Djalali. It has already been said by Mrs Safai, but we can only make an effort to imagine the suffering that Ahmed Djalali has been suffering for over four years. Mr Djalali is a guest lecturer at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. He is a Swedish-Iranian academic and was arrested on 25 April 2016 during a working visit to Iran. First he was held for many months without charge, many months also in total isolation and in bad conditions. He was tortured, then sentenced to death in October 2017 in something that Amnesty International believes can only be called a mock trial, with statements under duress. The charges were: spreading corruption on Earth. His state of health after those many years in detention and absolute, psychological terror, is very worrying. Mr Djalali has two young children and one wife. For his family and family, that is, of course, torture every day. Colleagues, all the flashing lights are on orange. Last week there were actual questions put here in the Chamber by myself and by other groups, by almost every group here in Parliament. The situation remains particularly tense. There is a political response, there is a diplomatic response, to ask for the release and to ask that the execution not continue, but also to ask for respect for human rights in Iran. Belgium has been committed for many years and is also a fierce opponent of the execution of the death penalty. Worldwide, not only in Iran, but also in other countries. Questions and statements have already been asked and made from the United Nations. Also from civil society: the VUB, Amnesty International. That has just been said. I am very pleased with the speed of work in our Parliament. The spirits are quickly linked together, and good discussions have been held, including in committee. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Safai for her active contribution to the debate, from her own life experience and expertise. That is why we have been able to come up with a very good text. I'm getting to the global context. After the defeat of Donald Trump, who is fortunately final, a new window is opened, a window of opportunity, for a new kind of relationship with Iran. Then the European Union can play a very important role. We have always been opposed to the brutalisation of our relations with Iran. We were always opposed to blowing up the nuclear deal with Iran, which already worked pretty well, until the United States decided to blow it up unilaterally. There are now, with Joe Biden as President of the United States, and with a European Union that wants to be assertive on the world stage, a number of opportunities and opportunities. However, the openness that the European Union now wants to show in its diplomatic relations with Iran, and the prospect of a new era after Donald Trump's break-up of the nuclear agreement, have certain limits. There are limits to our flexibility, our flexibility, our goodwill towards Iran. In the text on which we are about to vote, it says that, if the execution goes on, this will have bad consequences. The text states that, if Iran can come to some other insights, it will have a positive effect on the position of our country and Europe with regard to diplomatic relations with Iran. The openness and potential restoration of diplomatic relations with Iran, which is currently on the table, must of course be addressed by the country itself. It is therefore absolutely a matter of life and death, initially for Mr Djalali himself, but there is much more at stake than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u114	Madam President, unfortunately I did not have the opportunity to attend the committee meeting. It's Mr. Ben Achour, who represented my group. Having said that, on behalf of the PS, I would like first of all to thank the Chair for her initiative and the manner in which she chaired the committee. Furthermore, it is very difficult to speak after hearing Ms.Safai's testimony. But solidarity with Mr. Djalali's family must be organised as a matter of priority. The text we are defending today in this House is undoubtedly very important. In other assemblies - I am thinking here in the Walloon Parliament in particular - the same process is under way. As has been said and repeated, the text under consideration responds to an urgent need. This is indeed a death sentence. The execution that we hope to see cancelled is planned at the end of a trial which has proved to be perfectly unfair, which has failed to respect the basic rights of the defence and which has been based on confessions extracted under torture. We have just learned that, in the end, Mr. Djalali has not been transferred to the prison where his execution is to take place. This is probably good news, but it is also very worrying because nothing is won. The human rights defenders we are all must remain mobilized more than ever to maintain the pressure. We know that, professor at the VUB, Mr. Djalali was accused of espionage, without any tangible evidence. It is also known that human rights violations are commonplace in Iran. And it must be noted that, in recent times, binationals and foreigners have become the preferred targets of the Iranian regime. It is, of course, a strategy that must be placed in a context - Mr. De Vriendt has just recalled this - that is, that of the deterioration of the political and diplomatic framework around the Iranian issue and in particular around the nuclear issue. It must be understood that the starting point for this deterioration was the unilateral American withdrawal, following the Trump administration's decision, of the Vienna Agreement on Iran's nuclear power, and the implementation of the policy of maximum pressure on Iran. Nor should we lose sight of the regional geostrategic context with an Israeli-United States-Saudi Arabia axis hostile to Iran. It is from this that the historically difficult situation with Iran has deteriorated considerably, sparking an overbidding dynamic that is, today, truly catastrophic. Mr. Djalali can only be saved by diplomacy. Security in the region, the security of binationals and foreigners in Iran, the improvement of respect for human rights, will require better integration of that country in the context of nations, and one of the keys to this integration is the urgent return of the multilateral framework of the Vienna Agreement. Donald Trump's legacy - coming out of this agreement and maximum pressure - is very heavy with consequences from this point of view. In any event, in addition to the position we are all taking together today, we will fully support the steps that have been taken by our diplomacy, by the Prime Minister and our Foreign Minister for Mr. Djalali. We also support it with other less well-known interventions. That is the only purpose of the text we are presenting and supporting today. We reiterate our solidarity and our full support for Mr. Djalali's family. We cross our fingers for a positive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u115	Madam President, the precarious situation of Professor Ahmadreza Djalali leaves no one untouched. In a recent report Amnesty International reports that Professor Djalali continues to be at great risk of execution, as it only applies for a few days. It is clear that the Iranian regime is playing a dirty game with our government and, by way of enlargement, the EU. The Iranian state is putting pressure on Belgium in an attempt to organise a prisoner exchange to release the Iranian diplomat-terrorist Assadollah Assadi, arrested for his accessory to the preparations for an attack against an Iranian opposition meeting outside Paris, and not let our court do its job. The Committee on External Relations, and just now, talked about diplomatic openness. The committee must send a signal of diplomatic openness towards Iran. We question any openness, diplomatic, political or economic, towards a country which, for no reason whatsoever, is holding people in prison to use them in a common prisoner exchange to free terrorists, a country in which there is no respect for human rights, a country which puts critical votes in prison without pardon or trial, a country which is a geopolitical threat to the region and a terrorist threat to the West. In this respect, it is the responsibility of the federal government to assess in the future how it sees its relationship with a strict Islamic regime like that in Iran, which we do not believe can be treated as a normal country. Last year Belgium, together with five other European countries, set up the trade mechanism INSTEX, so that trade could be driven with the regime in question and the US sanctions could be avoided. My party was the only one in the hemisphere who opposed INSTEX. The majority, although one year after the date, found that the mechanism had failed and that Iran had failed to fulfil several commitments and had so unilaterally withdrawn from the Treaty. There is no point in waiting for any diplomatic openness or political commitment on the part of Iran. The announcement that Professor Djalali's execution was imminent is merely to increase the pressure on Iran. Perhaps they will postpone the execution, as we all hope, because they, however cynical, do not want to lose their trump card in the negotiations. We must not join in this blackmail, we must, together with other Western democracies as a united bloc, let Iran know that we are not being blackmailed or put under pressure. We must make it clear to them that Djalali must be released unconditionally and that, if that were not to happen within a reasonable time, we will collectively take harsh economic and diplomatic sanctions, with or without the consent of the UN Security Council. Our group, together with all of you, hopes for a successful outcome for Ahmadreza Djalali himself. We will certainly support this resolution in the hope that the signal will also be heard by the Iranian authorities. It's up to them now to show their human face.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days after our debate in committee on the general policy note, our new Minister for Foreign Affairs, Sophie Wilmès, was able to recall the foundations of our foreign policy: the defence of human rights, the fight against impunity, the strengthening of the rule of law and its respect, the transparency of judicial procedures, the preservation of the defence and – something dear to us – the refusal of the death penalty and the willingness to commute capital punishments to long-term sentences. These values transcend all political, philosophical and religious divisions. All democratic parties defend these positions and must continue to do so; not only on a case-by-case basis or on the basis of media interest, but on a day-to-day basis and in all countries of the world. The fight against the death penalty is a permanent struggle, which must occupy our diplomatic posts throughout the world, in countries with which we have sometimes only courteous relations, but also with allied states that condemn to death by commuting the sentence – such as Japan – or others that apply the sentence in practice – like the United States. We must continue this fight, both at the governmental level and at the level of parliamentary diplomacy, through which we can achieve partial, of course, but ultimately positive results. As we prepare our candidacy for the Human Rights Council in Geneva, as our Foreign Minister reminded us, we must be ambitious and, given the inhumanity of this issue, offensive, in order to achieve tangible results in four points: firstly, the universalization of the conventions on the death penalty; secondly, the commuted death penalty; thirdly, worthy trials for the defence of the accused; and finally, specific procedures for minors or for persons who have committed blood crimes when they were committed. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I turn to the dramatic case of Mr Djalali. My colleague De Vriendt has just recalled that our Assembly had adopted a resolution under the previous legislature in order to highlight the situation of Mr Ahmadreza Djalali, who was sentenced to death in Tehran on 21 October 2017. The resolution, which was signed by the MR, the Open VLD, the CD&V, the PS, Ecolo-Groen and the CDH, was already intended to denounce the judicial procedure that had been used, the death sentence and the possible execution of Mr.Jalali. Today, once again, we are mobilizing in favour of a request for pardon, a review of this trial and even a request for his release. Other European countries are also mobilizing. We can join in these steps, in order to prevent this execution, which seems imminent. Colleagues, we share the fear that the fate of Mr. Djalali – who is already based on very fragile presuppositions – will be involved in matters that are strictly beyond him: the relations between Iran and the United States with the arrival of Joe Biden; the future of the nuclear agreement, already mentioned; the role of Iran vis-à-vis its neighbours; the struggles of influence within the Iranian power, on the eve of the presidential elections in June; the movements of political and socio-economic contestation that run through that country; or the trial in Antwerp of an Iranian national accused of State terrorism. The life of a man, that of Mr. Djalali, cannot be taken hostage in the complex workings of international life. As I said in plenary last week, ladies and gentlemen, our efforts reflect our conscience. We have acted quickly – I am delighted – through Article 76 and I still have the hope, today, that our mobilization can change the course of its personal history and that our fight is not in vain. I have, tonight, a sincere thought, moved for Pr. Djalali and his family. Let them hold on! We fight for him and for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u117	The PVDA naturally supports the motion for a resolution to save Mr Djalali's life. The death penalty is immoral and an attack on human dignity. The death penalty must never be the result of a judicial procedure, even if that judicial procedure has been fair and correct. This is not just the case for Iran, but should be the case all over the world. It's a universal principle. In addition, an important principle of the rule of law has been violated. One is innocent until proven guilty. In our view, Mr Djalali did not have access to the right of defence and to a fair trial, with proper evidence. That is, of course, also a violation of fundamental human rights. One must be protected from the arbitrariness of a government and one must be entitled to a fair trial at all times. That is why, through the motion for a resolution, the PVDA is calling on the Government to ask the Iranian authorities by diplomatic means to pardon and release Mr Djalali. If necessary, he will be granted a fair and correct trial without, of course, leading to the execution of Mr Djalali. The PVDA will therefore approve the motion for a resolution. Hopefully we can also send out a very strong signal and give a powerful instrument to the diplomatic corps and to our government, so that we can save Mr Djalali's life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to thank everyone for their speedy response to the current situation by means of a resolution by the Committee on External Relations on the basis of Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure. Last week, our group had proposed to work in this way because it is the fastest way of working and everyone knows that urgency is needed in the current situation. Our group, of course, supports the text which deals first and foremost with the situation of Professor Djalali, who has just been explained in detail by the previous speakers. Mrs Safai has just described and explained exactly what this situation means. Let us be clear again. What is happening to Professor Djalali is a gross violation of human rights. He has been sentenced to death without a fair trial and is imprisoned in degrading circumstances. However, the text goes further and refers not only to the diplomatic context but also to the need for European cooperation in such matters, which is also very important. After all, nationals of several other European Member States are often unjustly detained in Iran. As I said last week in plenary, the battle is impossible to win if we run it alone. The other European Member States, such as Sweden, are valuable allies. After all, speaking only with one voice will impress. Otherwise, it will not be one human life, but many more lives will follow. It is good that the text refers to that. Thirdly, the text also clearly refers to respect for human rights. For our group this is a fundamental value and one of the cornerstones of Belgian foreign policy. It is something that should always be placed on the agenda and should be the guiding principle in policy, especially in contacts with Iran. Finally, the text also refers to the abolition of the death penalty. That too is very important for us. The death penalty is incompatible with human dignity. There is no justification, either morally or religiously or legally, that can be invoked to justify the death penalty. We are therefore pleased that the text explicitly mentions this. We are pleased that everyone in the Chamber supports the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u119	Madam President, the Chamber is rarely unanimous, but as far as this text is concerned, it is the case, across all party boundaries, because Mr Djalali, who has been sentenced to death, must be saved. It is a beautiful and powerful signal from the Chamber, as it says in the text. We are sending the message to his family that we have not forgotten him after five long years, in which much has happened, but the goal has not yet been achieved. We must continue to fight together to save a man from death.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank our colleague Els Van Hoof for taking the initiative in this matter, and our other colleagues – in particular Mrs Safai – for feeding it, and for having achieved such a rapid and high-quality work, to the point of being able to carry it today in plenary. In this respect, it seems appropriate to recall the indivisibility, within the Federal Parliament and in the Committee on External Relations, of respect for human rights. Neither the deterioration of the diplomatic context, nor the parallel dossiers already mentioned such as that of Mr. Asadi, excuse Iran's attitude for four years now regarding Dr. Djalali's imprisonment. As Amnesty International's director recently pointed out, Professor Jalali was sentenced after an iniquitous, arbitrary and tortured trial for refusing to spy on behalf of the Iranian authorities. He obviously has nothing to do on death row. Despite the crises facing the European Union, it is essential that we can speak with a strong and unique voice on this issue in order to move the lines of the Iranian regime. Professor Ahmadreza Djalali must not pay a high price for refusing to collaborate with a regime that does not respect human rights. I very much welcome the unanimity of this House in protesting this condemnation. I welcome the strong message that will be sent by our democracy in an attempt to save a man's life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u121	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u122	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Steven Creyelman, Peter Buysrogge, Michael Freilich, Annick Ponthier. The Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Work proposes to reject this bill. (1319/2) The Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliament's work proposes that this bill be rejected. (1319/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur is Mr Van der Donkt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u123	Madam President, it is always an honour to be rapporteur on a proposal, and I insist on doing so seriously. There is a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives on the specific rules applicable to the special committees in order to allow the committee responsible for the control of military purchases and sales to meet publicly when the committee decides to do so. The proposal seeks to amend our Rules of Procedure, in particular Rule 39. For a good understanding, I'll take you back in history. A little history never hurts in a report. What is this committee responsible for controlling the purchases and sales of the army? This committee was established in 1993 in the aftermath of the Agustas scandal. I quote from our Registrar's excellent reference work: "According to the Rules of Procedure, the meetings of the committee are in principle public, on the understanding that the committee may at any time decide to meet with closed doors and that it shall do the same at the request of the Minister responsible.'. That was the initial Rules of Procedure, but on 27 November 2001 the Committee decided to continue to meet with closed doors. That provision in the Rules of Procedure has also been reflected in the Rules of Procedure under Rule 39, which explicitly states that this committee meets with closed doors. In the context of a tendering procedure to replace our F-16s in 2017, a change to the Rules of Procedure was introduced under the impetus of the Green Ecolo Group, in the sense that Article 2 includes the possibility of a public meeting if there is consensus in the Committee on this matter. These rules of procedure are therefore in fact contrary to Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. At committee meetings on 13 May and 20 May of this year, this was established and, I understand, there was consensus to bring the Rules of Procedure into line with the Rules of Procedure. On 4 June 2020, the Chair of the relevant Committee and the Chair of the Defence Commission submitted the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. By analogy with Rule 149, which refers to the committee responsible for the control of the police, intelligence and security services, where the meetings also take place with closed doors in principle, except when the committee decides otherwise, the applicants intended to bring the internal rules of procedure into line with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. That proposal was discussed in the Rules of Procedure Committee on 8 July and 20 November. At its meeting on 8 July, Mr Dewael, then President of the Chamber, asked for advice from the Ministry of Defence and also from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Both ministries have submitted their opinions, which are attached to the report, and the point is that both ministries were rather reluctant and even opposed to the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure. During the meeting of 20 November, a discussion took place between the groups present, mainly Flemish Interest, PS, sp.a, N-VA and PTB. As far as the different positions are concerned, I can refer to the written report. After an agreement had apparently been reached in committee on the control of military purchases and sales, there has been a change of views. Eventually N-VA and Flemish Interest approved the amendment proposal while the other groups present rejected it. So far, my objective overview of the work in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u124	Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his comprehensive report and for the fine piece of history he has given. In the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, in mid-April, at the beginning of May, we found that there was a certain demand among the members present to be able to meet in public once in a while if necessary. This need was mainly fed by the file of the mouth masks in the Defence Committee. You'll remember that. The committee felt that the man on the street was entitled to honest and correct information, including in that file. For example, a form of consensus grew across party boundaries that the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales should be able to meet publicly on occasion. I even expressed myself wrong, because there was no consensus. Perhaps that is the only downside to the report. There was actually unanimity among the Members present. Madam President, as modest chairman of the modest Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, I have crawled into my pen and I have brewed a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. Because the idea had grown in committee and I did not want to take all the credit for it myself, I submitted the proposal to all colleagues in committee. I did not think that was more than normal and intellectually the fairest. A little to my surprise it was not only Mrs Ponthier, my good colleague, who wanted to sign with me, but also Mr Buysrogge and Mr Freilich of N-VA and, yes, even Mr Verduyckt of sp.a. So much for the good news, because from here it's just going downhill. First of all, Mr Verduyckt, I suspect that this has been done by sp.a national or must I say Vooruit, I have not yet come to an end when the name change takes effect, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that he had signed a proposal of the Flemish Interest. Of course, I couldn't. The result was the exit of Mr Verduyckt as co-signator. A few moments later, a government was formed. Forming a government seems to have consequences on the left side of this hemisphere. Apparently, that determines what can be discussed in public. The result was: exit sp.a, exit Ecolo, exit Green and everything else in support of this proposal. Apparently, all of a sudden, the disclosure of governance wasn't important anymore. A post in the government perhaps all the more. But I'll leave that in the middle. I'll leave it to you to judge that. Madam President, I have kept the bouncer for the last time. During the discussions in the committee, the PVDA made a fervent plea, as only our good colleague 'Hedeshow' of the PVDA can do. I say that without malice. He made a fervent plea against the back room politics and the dark forces of the capitalist arms industry that were involved and interfered with the democratic process. That ardent plea ended with a vote against this proposal, which was just about to come to an end with this back room policy, and against this proposal, which was intended to give the public administration a boost. It must be my fault, ladies and gentlemen, but I must admit that I do not understand that very well. Especially since the good colleagues of the PVDA only a week later in the Defence Committee put forward a recommendation to sue the lack of openness of the administration. I have to tell you, I know church cocks with less swivel power. Laughing I can also say that I know CD&Vs that are more consistent. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is intended only to allow the Committee on Army Procurement and Sales to meet publicly when the committee decides to do so. The authors were open to amendments. Apparently, they didn't come. I would therefore like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to think carefully and, with a view to publicising governance, to show some form of consistent behaviour, and to approve this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u125	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u126	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents and at the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the following proposal to the Committee on the Economy: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents and at the request of the proposers, I propose that you refer the following legislative proposal to the Economic Affairs Committee: - the bill (MM. Koen Geens and Steven Mathei) amending the Civil Code and the Code of Companies and Associations concerning participation in general meetings of co-owners and general meetings of companies and associations, No. 1602/1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Koen Geens and Mr Steven Matheï) amending the Civil Code and the Code of Companies and Associations concerning participation in the general meeting of co-owners and companies and associations, No. 1602/1. This proposal had previously been sent to the Committee on Justice. This bill was previously sent to the Justice Commission. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u127	The Chamber must proceed with the presentation of a double list of candidates for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. The Chamber should propose a list of two candidates for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. Nominations were announced in plenary on 17 September 2020. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2020, I propose that you proceed with the nomination of candidates at the plenary meeting on 17 December 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2020, I propose that you proceed to the nomination of candidates at the plenary session of 17 December 2020. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 4 December 2020 until Thursday 17 December 2020 at 2 p.m. The ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 1549/1 are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 4 December 2020 until Thursday 17 December 2020 at 2 p.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document No. 1549/1 are available in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday 17 December 2020. - The ballot urn will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 17 December 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u128	In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 38, § 7, of the Law of 19 March 1803 containing the organization of the notariat, the members of the Commissions of Appointment for the notariat shall be appointed for a term of four years, the terms of office of half of the members being renewed every two years. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 38 (7) of the Law of 19 March 1803, the members of the Appointment Committees for the notary are appointed for a period of four years, every two years renewing the mandates of half the members. The terms of office of half of the members shall expire on 30 June 2021. The mandates of half of the members shall expire on 30 June 2021. The House must renew the following terms of office for both the Commission de nomination francophone and the Commission de nomination neerlandophone: - serving as an effective member: a lecturer or a professor of law and an external member, - term as an alternate member: one magistrate and one external member. The Chamber should renew the following mandates for both the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Appointments Committees: - mandates of working members: one lecturer or professor of law and one external member, - alternate member's mandates: one magistrate and one external member. In accordance with Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2001, vacancies for members of the Appointment Boards must be published in the Belgian Moniteur no later than six months before the expiry of the terms of office. In accordance with Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2001, the vacancies for the mandates of members of the Appointment Committees must be published in the Belgian Official Journal no later than six months before the expiry of the mandates. The Chamber must therefore issue an appeal to the candidates by 1 January 2021 at the latest. The Chamber should therefore publish a call for candidates by 1 January 2021 at the latest. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2020, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for the renewal of half of the terms of office of the members of the appointing committees for the notariat. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 December 2020, I propose to publish a call to the candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the renewal of half of the mandates of the members of the Notarial Appointment Committees. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u129	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of Bill 1662/1. The Government asked for an urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft programme law, No. 1662/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u130	Madam President, the Programme Act contains provisions necessary for the implementation of the 2021 budget. The urgency here is justified or justified by the fact that this law contains measures which must be published in the Belgian Official Journal before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u131	Madam President, this urgency is, of course, the result of the late submission of the programme law. That was not driven by external circumstances. The government has provoked this on its own. We will therefore not support the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u132	Thank you. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u133	The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill introducing a single advance on the costs of managing social insurance funds for self-employed workers, No. 1667/1 was tabled. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law introducing a one-off advance on the management costs of the social insurance funds of the selfemployed, No. 1667/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u134	Madam Chair, the purpose of this bill is to allow each social security fund to use a financial intervention to mitigate the impact of the coronavirus crisis on its management budget. Financial assistance would take the form of a grant that would be fully covered by the Welfare Fund, which is part of the overall financial management for self-employed workers. The urgency, Madam President, is motivated by the fact that these are urgent measures in the context of the coronavirus crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u135	Thank you. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u136	The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill amending the Act of 27 February 1987 on allowances for persons with disabilities, adapting the criterion of age from 21 to 18 years, No. 1665/1. The Government has also requested the urgency declaration, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law amending the Law of 27 February 1987 on allowances for persons with disabilities, amending the age criterion from 21 to 18 years, No. 1665/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u137	Madam President, the draft law submitted provides an answer to the judgment in No. 103/2020 of the Constitutional Court of 9 July 2020. In that judgment, the Court held that the age condition of 21 years laid down in the Law of 27 February 1987 is unconstitutional. The urgency is invoked to respond to that judgment and to bring the legislation into line with the Constitution, to avoid an action for annulment of the contested rule and, not least, to provide legal certainty as to the decisions taken by the administration since the judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u138	Thank you. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u139	The government also requested urgency in accordance with rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill on temporary support measures was introduced in response to the VOCID-19 pandemic, No. 1674/1. The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on temporary support measures following the Covid-19 pandemic, No. 1674/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u140	Madam President, as indicated in the title, the draft contains temporary support measures as a result of the corona crisis. The urgency is also justified by the fact that these temporary measures must be published in the Belgian Official Journal before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u141	Thank you. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u142	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u143	Mr De Roover, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1681/1 providing for the financing of end-of-life measures for local police staff for the year 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u144	Madam President, the legislative proposal is intended to finance the end-of-life scheme for the operational staff of the Integrated Police for the year 2021, which is approaching in a rapid fashion. Without this proposed regulation, policemen or women who make an end-of-life choice must be paid by the police zones, so that the latter no longer have room for much-needed new recruitments, of which we all know how important they are. No budget for NAVAP is currently foreseen in the 2021 budget. When we questioned the Minister for the Interior in committee, she said that there would be a structural solution, but the problem is that it will take some time to work out that structural arrangement and will be late for 2021, especially since the current regime expires on 31 December 2020. It is therefore not a political proposal for new policies, but a correction to ensure the functioning of our police for the year 2021. We therefore hope that you will all be able to support this urgent proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u145	Thank you. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u146	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters on 25 November 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration on 25 November 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 52/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 52/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 January the British courts will issue their judgment on the extradition of Julian Assange and his surrender to the American authorities following a false and unfair trial. His extradition to the United States is likely to cost him 175 years in prison for divulging war crimes committed by the American army during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. We could have expected the US government to be held accountable, or to be convicted of war crimes, but not. It is the whistleblower who is condemned for making transparency about these crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, this injustice is not just about Mr Assange and his loved ones. It concerns all those who aspire to a democratic society that respects human rights. Today, it is these values that are under attack. It is the right to information, the right to transparency, freedom of expression and freedom of the press. These values are the foundation of our democracy. Today, we must take a stand in this case so that Belgium gives a strong signal. Our Government must take a political position by granting asylum to Mr Assange. We must assert ourselves as a country that defends freedom of expression and human rights. We must affirm that we do not accept that whistleblowers and investigative journalists, who inform the population at the risk of their lives and that of their families, at the risk of their social stability, can be punished simply for doing their work, and for disclosing information of public interest. Colleagues, if you refuse to give your support to Mr Julian Assange, for me, it means that you accept censorship and renounce the defence of fundamental freedom. We must not wait until 10 December, International Human Rights Day, to make major statements. It is today that we must act. These are actions that need to be done, not just words! Colleagues, I invite you to vote against the simple point of order to allow debate on our motion in order to grant political asylum to Mr Julian Assange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u148	Madam President, I wanted to make this justification for voting because the text obviously has purposes for which we can recognise ourselves. But he maintains a little confusion that continues to be made regularly with regard to Julian Assange and this is perhaps the time to talk about it. On page 4, the proposal tells us that political asylum must be granted to Mr Assange and other whistleblowers who defend democratic ideas. But that's the whole problem, Julian Assange is not technically and really a whistleblower. That is not why it should not be protected. I'll be right back. It is not at the source of the information that has been disclosed. The person at the source, and therefore the whistleblower in history, is Chelsea Manning, former American army analyst. And even though it does not constitute an information medium in the classical sense with traditional writing, WikiLeaks has been recognized as a media organization by two British and American court decisions. As such, WikiLeaks' collaborators, including Julian Assange, are defined in any democratic rule of law as publishers and journalists. The urgency of the situation is therefore that we must try to provide Julian Assange with protection as a journalist and recognize this status as a journalist and not as a whistleblower. That is why we will abstain on this motion. But above all we are going to propose two separate texts which will try to solve these problems. The first is to provide adequate protection to Julian Assange as a journalist. The second is to urge the government to rapidly transpose into Belgian law the European Directive on the protection of whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u149	Madam President, this is an important debate, and I regret a little bit the intervention of the PTB colleague, whom he has caricatured by doing this kind of shortcut, as I have just heard: "If you do not vote against the simple motion, it is that you endorse censorship." I think that the seriousness of the project would have deserved to avoid this kind of caricature, because I dare hope that we are all, in this House, ardent defenders of freedom of expression. We have a lot of sympathy for Mr. Assange. We also share the concerns expressed about its future fate. But in addition to what Mr De Smet has just made clear, I would also like to point out that in his request, the PTB has chosen the wrong path. You ask that the government grant Mr Assange political asylum, whereas on the one hand it has not applied for it in Belgium, and that it does not fulfil the condition of localisation in Belgium in order to be able to apply for this status; and on the other hand, in Belgium, it is not the government which grants asylum or recognizes refugee status, but it is the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, which acts independently. To grant your request would create a precedent whose effects on Mr. Assange's personal situation will be null, since he is not in Belgium; and whose effects on the independence of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons from the government will be problematic. That is why, if we morally support Mr Assange, we will not support the PTB motion that raises the problem by taking it from the wrong end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u150	Madam President...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u151	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u152	Madam President, I would like to speak for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u153	I shall therefore consider this to be a personal fact. But before I give you the floor, I ask you to be brief, Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u154	Madam President...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u155	Madam President, we have been working on explanations of vote here for weeks, which go well beyond the length of time laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Mr Boukili has also just used more time for his explanation of vote than is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The second time he has spoken is against the Rules of Procedure and I am opposed to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u156	I believe that a majority of members do not want a reply. We do not consider that there is a personal fact and we will be able to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u157	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u158	There is a regulation that seems to be interpreted separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u159	Madam Chair, then answer certain points?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u160	You can do it after the session. Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u161	Yes 108 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 145 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[113]] Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 143 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[115]] Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 145 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 102 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 146 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[115]] Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor. The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u169	Yes 101 Yes Non 42 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Proposal No. 1319/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Proposal No. 1319/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-03-55-plenair-ip073x.u170	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. Be all wise to be rewarded by Saint Nicholas. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 10, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 10 December 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
