ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, two topical debates are taking place today. Everyone is aware of Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure, of course, but perhaps I will summarize it. The questioners will, as always, have two minutes. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Ministers then have five minutes to reply, but I suggest that we be flexible in this because there are many questions to ask. For the reply you will have two minutes. Attention, the groups which have not tabled a question may speak for two minutes, either immediately after the authors or at the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u3	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, what is currently happening at the border between Greece and Turkey is a shame for European values. Four years ago, in March 2016, the European Union was able to stop the migration crisis in the summer of 2015 at the price of an agreement that already shook our values. But what have we done for four years? We've settled down. We have concluded outsourcing agreements with countries such as Turkey but also with Libyan militias and, above all, as Europeans, we have failed to revise the Dublin Regulation. And here we are in this situation: on the one hand, we have Turkey, which here takes on a role as a smuggler of human beings, encouraging migrants to cross a border. I think it's a first! We're being blackmailed absolutely heinous. On the other hand, there are countries like Greece that are objectively overwhelmed, whose inhabitants are at the end and whose, according to the images, some Coast Guards carry out illegal refoulements. Prime Minister, I have one real question. I'm not just putting it to you, I'm putting it to all of us. Which Europe do we want? Do we want, for the future, a Europe that continues to outsource its borders, its migration issues completely and to pay, sometimes very expensive, Libyan militias or a third State to manage migration in our place? Or do we finally want a Europe that takes on migration and the question of migration, which confronts it, which manages it and eventually controls it but does not see it as a threat that should be preserved but as an opportunity? At the same time, Madam Prime Minister, do you condemn Turkey's action? Do you condemn the possible action, to be confirmed, of the Greek Coast Guard? Would this not be the time to take an initiative to try to finally resurrect the Dublin agreements and ensure that there is a regulation that manages to distribute migrants in a fair and balanced manner, rather than leaving them all in Italy and Greece. It is our values that are at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u4	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, if I were to tell you that I gave the keys to my house to a burglar and that I am paying him now not to break into my house, you might rightly have declared me crazy. Yet that is exactly what CD&V, Open Vld and N-VA did in 2016, when they made a blackmail deal with Erdogan. They gave him the keys to our European external borders and then paid him many billions of euros not to abuse those keys. Erdogan is, of course, a whole lot smarter than you, establishment politicians. The Turks have a leader who, unlike you, knows what realpolitik is. Erdogan knew from the beginning that he could easily blackmail Europe with the deal and now, when it suits him best, of course he does so. Thousands and potentially many millions, especially male migrants of military age, are being spurned and pampered by Erdogan's propaganda to illegally cross the Greek border by force and to flood and destabilise our continent. Yet you, Madam Prime Minister, and Charles Michel, former Prime Minister and now even President of the EU, continue to regard Erdogan as our ally. I wonder if you realize who our true ally is, Madam Prime Minister. Do you know this flag? [[Mr Van Langenhove shows a Greek flag]] Do you know these people? It's the Greeks, and they're guarding our border, too. They also guard our future. [[Tumult]] So my question is very simple, Madam Prime Minister. Do you realize who our true ally is? It's not Erdogan, Madam Prime Minister. They are our fellow Europeans, the Greek people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u5	Excuse me, Mr Van Langenhove, as you know, it is not allowed to open a flag in Parliament, so you can put it under your seat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u6	As a newcomer, of course, I couldn't know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u7	I think your group will have told you that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, before I turn to my actual question, I suggest that we give the debate on people on the run a certain dignity and let it go back to what it deserves, rather than using it as propaganda for its own political agendas. Madam Prime Minister, an estimated 24,000 refugees have been gathered at the Turkish-Greek border, people who have been fleeing for years in extremely difficult conditions and who have now become a playground of an extremely cynical game between Turkey and Europe. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats fully understand the difficult situation in Greece. There is complete chaos on the Turkish-Greek border. The situation in the camps on the Greek islands is degrading. There was no other way. We gave Erdogan a crowbar to blackmail Europe. Greece is now the first victim of this. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats cannot understand the attitude of Greece, an attitude of violence. There's been tear gas fired, including children. In the meantime, there have been deaths. Pushbacks are happening. This is contrary to international law. In the meantime, everyone knows the statue of the Greek Coast Guard who almost capsized a boat. Greece is responsible, but we are all responsible. Every European country has a responsibility here, because Europe is abandoning Greece. Madam Prime Minister, will Belgium contribute to additional humanitarian aid at the Turkish-Greek border? I am thinking in particular of the most vulnerable people such as families with children. How do you see European assistance to Greece? Is Belgium prepared to send staff to support Greece in the processing of asylum applications? Is Belgium in favour of a temporary European distribution mechanism to resolve the situation on the Greek islands?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u9	Madam Secretary, Madam Prime Minister, the war in Syria obliges thousands of people to flee and leave everything behind. Since Turkey is a neighbouring country, many refugees end up there. That is why a deal was made between Turkey and Europe in 2016 to see how the refugees could be received. This would prevent them from having to venture a dangerous crossing across the Mediterranean. In short, the European external borders closed, Turkey received money for better reception of refugees, and Europe also had to do its part and give people who had the right to asylum access and to distribute the refugees fairly. Today there is no more deal with Turkey and Erdogan decides to drop the refugees off at the Greek border. Flemish interest only requires resources to stop those people and certainly not resources for emergency aid to those people. That's hypocritical. Flemish Interest goes on coffee at Assad bombing its own people. We should not therefore be surprised if these people have to flee. Flemish Interest goes on coffee at Orban which boycotts every reasonable solution in Europe for its own political gain. We should not therefore be surprised if there is chaos at the borders. I suggest that you go on coffee again with one clear message: stop bombing your own people and take responsibility for people in need, so that they no longer have to flee and there is no chaos at our external borders. The Turkey deal has worked, the number of people on the run has fallen and the number of deaths has fallen. But now there is nothing, the war has escalated and there are no more agreements between Europe and Turkey. Aid in the regions has fallen. Madam Minister, what will you do within Europe to make new agreements with Turkey so that the refugees can receive proper protection in the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u10	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, the situation is too dramatic to be able to show in this House. Since 1 March, the situation has been dramatic at the borders of Turkey and Greece. The images revolt us especially when they show gunfire against children and families. So far, Europe has been inconsistent and has not provided a balanced response. Europe has merely provided additional resources to Frontex to protect its borders. It is therefore a purely security approach that is being put in place and that does not meet the challenges of the tragedy. In 2015, the deal that was made with Mr Erdogan was unacceptable, a bargain where money was given to him to keep our migrants. Today, the question is how to get out of this infernal cycle and respond to the humanitarian emergency. Belgium can play a leading role in a European approach to implementing sustainable and balanced solutions to human problems. Is a meeting of the Heads of State and Government planned after the on-the-spot visits of the Presidents of the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament to explain what could be done and, above all, suggest things? This would enable us to actively participate in the search for solutions. Is there not a risk that tomorrow, Mr Erdogan will apply or request the application of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which would lead us to a very dangerous infernal and warrior process? Humanitarian and defence issues are linked. Today it is important to put everyone around the table, including Russia, in order to find a lasting solution to these kinds of problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I hear the talk here about refugee policy for personal gain. I advise you, not just the people from the right or the left or the welfare huggers, to take a boat in Ayvalik. I don't know if you know that. It's next to Izmir. You can rent or buy a boat there. There are about thirty to forty thousand traffickers in Turkey alone. If you do the 16 km transfer, I advise you to do it once, I have done it myself, then you arrive in Lesbos. Then it is noted that 90% of refugees are not Syrians, first of all. Most of them are Afghans, Ghanaians and Moroccans, among others. So one will find out who the victim is. Those are the people who live there. I really have to deal with it. Lesbos is a tourist island. On the whole of the tourist island there is no more tourism, no more potatoes or no more oranges, because they are stolen. That is the situation today. This is not about one side or another, but about Europe's cowardice. This is about the fact that we already pay EUR 38 billion a year for the refugee problem with Europe. I am not talking about migration, which costs us EUR 10 billion a year in our country or 2.2 % of our GNP. I'm asking for a little common sense. How can we give EUR 6 billion to a Turkish villain with Europe? Your memory may be small. Remember Kobani where he had the people killed. In 2016 we fought against ISIS, but Europe looked away when the YPG and the Kurds were attacked. Now the Turkish villain in Idlib is going to wage war himself on Syria's territory, they are going to transfer those refugees to the other side and say to Europe: pay! When are we gonna stop paying that Turkish villain? When do we take responsibility with Frontex? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u12	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation on the Turkish-Greek border has already been described here. I happened to be there myself in September 2019. The border crossing to Edirne is a rather narrow transition. One has to cross a river, after which one ends up in a neutral zone between two border points. To that narrow corner, at the end of Turkey towards Europe, President Erdogan deliberately sent tens of thousands of people with vans. He plunged them into misery with the promise that they would be able to reach Europe in this way. Important solutions are needed in the short term. The European Union must now show decisiveness and solidarity with what Greece is doing. The Greeks have to guard that line. I understand that other Members sometimes see this differently with good intentions, but if we do not, the situation will get even worse. In that case, we can expect that the situation for the 3.5 million refugees currently in Turkey will get much worse, including those living in the border regions. My first question is, of course, the following. How will we show solidarity with the border countries, first Greece and secondly Bulgaria? I also know the border post in Bulgaria, but it is much more difficult to reach. What efforts will the federal government make to strengthen Frontex? Secondly, we need to look at the issue more broadly. There is the huge responsibility of Mr Van Langenhove's friends, Mr Assad, to whom Mr Dewinter so much likes coffee. Assad is raging a civil war in his own country and is violating human rights, which means that people are fleeing to Turkey and that Turkey itself is faced with an unsustainable situation in terms of the reception of those refugees. Whether the deal is ethical or not, the question remains, but a deal has been made with Europe. However, these same extremists and populists in Europe are not helping to carry out the deal, which is why we are now in the current situation. Madam Prime Minister, what will Belgium do, either to honour the deal or to ensure that something else is replaced? If there is nothing else, I fear that the situation will only get worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, the current situation on the Turkish-Greek border is poignant. A lot of people are drumming there. The Turkish government is talking about more than a hundred thousand people, but that is, of course, only propaganda. The immediate cause is a statement by Mr Erdogan. He would open the borders and people would have free access to the European Union. We all know that this is a cynical issue, which only serves to justify and support its operation in the Syrian Idlib. It is clear to us that we Europeans will never accept that people are being used as a geopolitical weapon. This does not alter the fact that we need to look for an answer. That answer is a European answer. Belgium must cooperate to help defend the Greek borders. Europe must show that we can handle more Europe and seize those opportunities. The Turkey deal is in some circles even in several, so I have heard here seriously under pressure. For us it is clear, the deal that Mrs Merkel made in 2016 was and is a good deal. The only way, ladies and gentlemen, to reach a good agreement is to speak with each other. Europe and Turkey must feel good about this, otherwise there will be no solution. The current situation shows that we will only be able to solve the asylum problem if we work within a European whole. The previous European Commission has taken steps, including by strengthening Frontex, but too few steps have been taken. We need to work together on further reinforcement. What is the government's position on the statements of the Turkish President? What will you do? Will Belgium show solidarity with Greece in the defence of the external borders? Will Belgium strive for... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u14	Thank you, Mr Demon. The last part was unfortunately not for the report, I'm afraid. Mr Pivin has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u15	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, it was already four years ago in 2016 that the agreement was signed between the European Union and Turkey in an attempt to find a solution to the migration crisis in the eastern Mediterranean. And what do we see today? Tens of thousands of people trying to enter European territory through the 212 kilometres of the Greek-Turkish border, face to face with Turkish guards and Greek guards who, some, push migrants to Europe, others, try to push them back to Turkey. This is obviously unacceptable and we have a responsibility. Indeed, these 212 kilometres are also a border with the European Union. Madam Prime Minister, do you believe that Turkey is honouring its commitments under the 2016 agreement and using the migration issue as a political instrument against the European Union? So far, what is the state of migration from Turkey? Moreover, because this aspect is also crucial and I know you very carefully, how can Belgium and its European partners achieve results in the fight against trafficking in human beings? Finally, can you tell us what decisions have already been taken this week and their timetable for implementation, particularly within the framework of Frontex? What are the human and technical resources that Belgium is currently mobilising in this European effort to support the Greek border?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, we all remember that in 2016 a realpolitik deal was concluded with Turkey, because the water was on our lips. That was, of course, to buy time so that definitive and fundamental solutions could be worked out. In the meantime, we are so many years later and people are panicking because of the new situation, which is apparently unexpected. That sounds strange, because it could have been expected that the Turkish deal would at some point be abused by Erdogan as a means of blackmail. I already said that back then. Let us also remember that Turkey is operating outside its borders with the problems in Idlib, that Erdogan is organising an offensive in another country and thus creating a flow of refugees. He's activated the flow of refugees. I hope, however, that we shall be able to hear other noises here and there, here and now, here and there, only President Erdogan, who is responsible for the crisis at the border with Greece today. No one else is responsible for that part of the crisis. Madam Prime Minister, Turkey really wants to get support for the operations in Syria, where, incidentally, it has dubious allies of Belgian nationality, as I learned last week. This is particularly true of Syrian fighters acting jointly with a NATO ally in Idlib, il faut le faire. How do you respond to Turkey's request for additional support? How will you respond to the current situation? After all, I hear votes for more money and even votes to help facilitate illegality. That is not the way that we believe will lead to a sustainable solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u17	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, I am shocked at the horrific spectacle we have been seeing for the past few days. Indeed, human beings find themselves trapped in the midst of a geopolitical game between great powers. Thousands of children, women fleeing war, are used as a currency of exchange and as a means of pressure for political agreements. Today, a new blackmail is emerging, that of blackmailing migrants. The bottom line, Madam Prime Minister, is that the crisis at European borders is the result of repeated interventions in the region. It is the result of NATO's aggressive policy of which we are a part and which has led us into these wars. Our F-16s bombed Syria and Libya, and set the region on fire and blood. If some still do not know, I would remind you that war inevitably generates refugees, displacements of people. It is important to stress that we have our share of responsibility in the current situation. However, no one is talking about it in this House because all the parties present have voted in favour of these wars. Europe has delegated its responsibility for the reception of migrants to Turkey, while a humane, lasting solution in accordance with the conventions on respect for human rights must be found, if we wish to be consistent with our international commitments. If we are to respond to this humanitarian crisis and prevent it from persisting and worsening, we must act by favouring diplomatic channels rather than the way of war. Bombing is never a solution; on the contrary, it is the core of the problem. The time has come to put in place, at European level, a real migration policy based on a fair distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u18	For the sake of clarity, the groups which have not tabled a question can only take the floor once but also have two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Prime Minister, the least we can say is that in five years Europe has changed. Compared to the terms used in 2015, when Europe was welcomed in 2015 in front of hundreds of thousands of people at the time, today Europe's only defensive words, faced with 15,000 people who showed up at our borders, contrast: Europe has changed well. At the same time, it is clear that Turkey's betrayal, this manipulation, this instrumentalization of migrants is totally intolerable. But it is well known that Turkey is a multi-recidivist. It had already intervened against our Kurdish allies in Syria. She intervenes in Idlib. It is indeed at the root of this problem and, in any case, a major contributor to the current crisis. Moreover, we Europeans have totally abdicated in the search for a solution in Syria. We have important debates on how to deal with the influx of refugees. But I do not hear a single debate, not a single proposal to try to stop the war in Syria. However, as long as there is war in Syria, there will be migratory flows, there will be flows of refugees. This battle of Idlib is not the last one to take place in Syria. We know that other areas could still be under fire either Turkish or Bashar al-Assad in the coming months and weeks. What I am asking is that we should be able to protect our borders, but that we should also respect our international values and commitments with regard to refugees; that we should draw the conclusions of Turkey's behaviour, which, decisively, never proves to be a partner of Europe in the crises we are experiencing at our borders; that, in the end, like all the debauchery of political means that we have put in place to send three very important political leaders to the Greek border, and the head of European diplomacy in Ankara, we would put the same energy in order, finally, to find a solution to this atrocious Syrian conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u20	Madam President, the explosive situation in the Idlib province of Syria has degenerated in recent days following the attack on that territory by the Damascus regime and with the support of Russia. This has generated very large geopolitical tensions in a highly unstable region. As history has taught us on many occasions, we know how dramatic any disruption in this region can have consequences for the local population, for neighbouring countries, but also for the European Union, whose doors are not far from it. In this capacity, as announced by the Secretary-General of NATO, we call for de-escalation, an immediate ceasefire and a resumption of the constitutional process initiated in Geneva. First of all, I would like to recall that, as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, Belgium attaches great importance to the humanitarian issue in Syria. Last summer in New York, we tabled a resolution for an immediate ceasefire in Idlib, in order to put an end to the unacceptable suffering of the people concerned and to the daily violations of international humanitarian law. We regret the Russian and Chinese vetoes in this regard. It is essential that humanitarian aid can be provided directly to the areas concerned: 1 million people in the war zone need that support. At the moment, the UN Cross-border Resolution allows the delivery of humanitarian aid in northern Syria through two crossing points, but only for six months. Belgium considers that although this resolution is useful, it does not respond to the current challenges. We therefore call for the UN Cross-border Resolution to be at least renewed and preferably extended to enable the provision of emergency aid. Turkey has taken a constructive stance on this issue. That is a good thing. Having said that, we cannot deny that relations between the European Union and Turkey are currently difficult. Belgium remains convinced that Turkey must be a partner of Europe and that good cooperation between the two entities can lead to positive achievements for both sides as well as for the people in Syria. When you're partners, you use dialogue, not threat or blackmail. If Turkey refuses that its intentions are of such a nature, we therefore invite Turkey to show some measure and not to act unilaterally or in haste. We expect Turkey to refrain from adding chaos to chaos, especially when human lives are at stake. I would remind you that the eastern Mediterranean route gives free rein to smugglers who thrive on the misery of many people. I would also remind you that 850,000 people used this passage between 2015 and 2016. No one wants such situations to happen again. The agreement concluded between the European Union and Turkey in 2016 is specifically intended to avoid that trap. Contrary to what is sometimes claimed, the refugee fund set up at European level for Turkey is effective. Payments shall be made on time. Moreover, these funds are mainly intended for organisations helping refugees in Turkey and not for Turkey itself. Admittedly, Turkey is experiencing a great migratory pressure that is not limited to refugees. We can ask questions about the answers given to them. We expect our Turkish partner to honour his commitments. As you know, the Presidents of the European institutions visited the Greek-Turkish border on Tuesday. On that occasion, they reiterated the importance of acting proportionately and with respect for human dignity and international law. It goes without saying that Belgium is fully in line with this approach. In this regard, investigations are under way. They will have to shed light on what has happened; it is essential. One of the great achievements of the European Union is also the Schengen area, which allows all European citizens to move freely within it. The corollary of this major acquis communautaire is respect for its external borders. In this context, at the extraordinary Council held last night, the European Commission submitted a series of proposals. Of these, financial measures have been decided. The Commission will immediately release EUR 350 million for integrated migration and border management. This amount may be doubled in the short term. Operational measures have also been decided, namely the strengthening of Frontex. Belgium will contribute to this. Furthermore, at the request of Greece, all Member States were requested through the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Mechanism. Like the other Member States, Belgium will participate in the joint effort, in accordance with the requests made. However, these aids should not obscure the real problem of the fair distribution of care. Europe must be able to demonstrate its ability to implement a coherent and coordinated migration and asylum policy. Belgium has always argued for a fair balance between solidarity and responsibility. In this context, our country will continue to act constructively in the debates. You should also know that a meeting of the European Council is scheduled in Zagreb tomorrow. Our Foreign Minister is fully mobilized and will support a strong and sustainable Union response to Turkey. The issue will certainly also be on the agenda of the European Summit on 26 March. You can count on me to relay Belgium's point of view and ask for a solution to be found. Finally, today I also want to express our solidarity with Greece. We must always pursue this objective: to ensure solidarity, respect for international law and, indeed, respect for the external borders. This balance must be maintained at all times and in all places.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for your full answer. We can follow and endorse your comments on the call for de-escalation in Syria. On the other hand, I find you very diplomatic on the question of Turkey. Indeed, we are talking about a country that, for the time being, is taking men, women and children hostage as a currency of exchange in a geopolitical debate in north-western Syria. I think we could wait a little harder for a conviction. Of course we must help Greece. Our European eminences were right to go there. But I find your silence strange. Not only yours, but also that of the European institutions, in front of the images of pushback, of refoulement that reflect, we must repeat, completely illegal actions in the current situation. Finally, I hope that we will indeed be at the meeting in the next European negotiations to relaunch the Dublin process, which you have not mentioned. I should like to recall that the Malta Agreement, which calls for a fair and balanced distribution of migrants, has been debated in this Chamber. Please take it in your suitcases, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u22	There is only one party that has always warned about the consequences of a deal with Erdogan. There's only one party who didn't want to be blackmailed. There is now only one party that wants to react forcefully and with all possible means to what is no less than an outright act of war by Erdogan in what he himself calls a religious war. For the Flemish interest it is time to grow some backbone and move to action. Stop the billions flowing into Turkey and use that money to control our own borders and support the Greeks. Put Turkey out of the customs union and out of the accession talks with the EU. If Turkey continues to use migrants as a weapon against Europe, that country should no longer be regarded as a NATO ally. We must now help our only true ally, Greece, if necessary with the army, and make it clear that the external borders must be closed and closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. It is true that, in the short term, we must help Greece to cope with the situation. I am very pleased with the commitment you have made to humanitarian assistance and to uphold international law. You will also know that it has been a long-term task for my group to reform the European system. That's what I heard you say. Indeed, it is always the same countries at the external borders that receive most asylum applications and are not provided for in them. Greece is an example of this. I call for uniform asylum rules for Europe, a fair distribution mechanism for asylum seekers between all countries, if necessary step by step, starting with those countries that already want to join. I ask you to work on this on behalf of our country, together with your government, and to take a leading role in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u24	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. In 2015, there was an asylum crisis. Europe failed then. We certainly shouldn't make the same mistake twice. You have said a lot in your reply, but I think it is important that clear and new agreements are made between Europe and Turkey, so that reception in the region is possible and people no longer have to flee and die. I hope that this message will be conveyed by our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u25	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the information you have given us. We will have the opportunity to come back to this issue very often in the Federal Opinion Committee on European Affairs or with the Foreign Minister after his meeting in Zagreb. Arrangements have been made and Belgium has played an important role in building a Europe of values. I believe that today, even more than yesterday, we have to work to ensure that this Europe of values returns to the agenda because, unfortunately, we have the impression that this Europe which was delighted to have dropped the Berlin Wall has rebuilt many borders and walls. This is the direction that should not be followed. We must mobilize to change the course of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u26	Madam Prime Minister, as usual, you came up with the European belt. There was a time when our European leaders still had balls. In 1998, under pressure from Europe, the Erdogan Refah Party was banned as a fascist-nationalist party with a view to accession. I'm reading a tweet from our President of Europe, your boss, dated 29 February: "I just expressed my condolences to Erdogan and my deep concern about the situation in Idlid." Those are the words of our European leaders today. That message goes to a leader who wants to set up an Ottoman empire and once said I read more than just The Standard and The Morning: "The minarets are our bayonets, the domes our helmets, the mosques our barracks and the believers our soldiers." Instead of talking about Europe, we can do something. We can finally stop the accession talks with Turkey, instead of paying, as at present, EUR 600 million extra. We are also doing this, in addition to EUR 6 billion, we need to be a little honest. Half of Turkish exports go to Europe. We can do something about that. It's not that hard. Two thirds of foreign investment in Turkey comes from Europe. Then who's got the guns to stop that? We have the weapons in our hands to stop that. We can now immediately set up reception centres at the Greek border and in Italy, immediately return the 90% that is not a refugee and have a humane policy for the others. We can do that, instead of constantly hiding under the umbrella of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u27	Madam Prime Minister, unlike some previous speakers, I do not think we can solve the problem alone. Belgium cannot solve this as a small country alone. Those who always come up with nationalist solutions and think that one can solve all world problems from one's own nation state, I regret to say that I am disappointed. If we want to solve such a global problem, we must do so through international cooperation. There must finally be solidarity in Europe to support the Greeks at the border. And if necessary, we will support the Bulgarians as well. Unlike the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I do not think that we should suddenly jump on the boat with a number of countries and let everyone in. We can't, because we can't wear that. On the other hand, I also oppose those who believe that a solution can be found without Turkey. Turkey is the link between Asia and Europe. It works like a pass-through door for people who pass through there. There are already 3.5 million refugees there. Manu militanti cannot be solved. It will also require European solidarity. I therefore call on the populists and extremists in Europe who do not want to participate in this, not to complain because Turkey is doing what it is doing. We must honour the agreements we have concluded. The Turkey deal must be respected. We must force our share of the deal by sending extra men to guard the border, but we must also keep our word, and so must Erdogan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u28	Madam Prime Minister, we agree with your statement that a European solution must be found, that refugees must be spread out and that everyone must take responsibility. Without being naive towards Turkey and Mr Erdogan, we want to make it clear that it is important for us that reception can take place on the ground, as it has been since 2016. We must be honest, fewer people have come to Europe. Fewer people have drowned in the Aegean. There were results. So we need to talk to Erdogan, without being naive. But we are also helping Greece. We must make it clear to Greece that it is time for the many resources it has received to set in motion a proper asylum procedure. There is still work to be done. In short, it is clear to our group that the 2016 agreement must be a guiding principle for a renewed constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u29	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, which I wanted to call "farm and human". But we say it so much. This is, in any case, a definite answer. No one wants to relive the 2015 migration crisis. We do not want to relive it and we cannot relive it. But neither can we continue to observe Turkey adding chaos, as you said. Or it will be necessary to re-examine the question of financial resources in view of all the resources allocated to Frontex. In this regard, I hope that the reinforcement of agents that has been decided will be sufficient in the light of the Greek requests and requests. Unfortunately, the current situation is a failure for Europe when we remember that Schengen was in 1995 and that the first European powers were granted by the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997. Madam Prime Minister, it is vital - and I know your determination on this matter - to put in place, as soon as possible, the new pact on migration and asylum. It is a question of credibility vis-à-vis other European countries and it is a question of credibility vis-à-vis each European citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u30	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, as has been said, the 2015 deal was one to buy time to implement a fully-fledged European border protection policy. An agreement was then concluded at European level in 2016 which was not implemented. It is high time we took responsibility for our own borders. Realpolitik must open our eyes to the facts. Turkey is where it lies and we will have to deal with Erdogan again. Erdogan, who is in danger both politically and militaryly internally, no longer acts out of a position of power but out of a position of less and less power. Erdogan understands one language, namely clear language. It is clear that we will never accept that he is blackmailing us, nor that he is putting refugees at risk by using them as weapons. Clare language should encourage Mr Erdogan to work together in a decent manner. Fortunately, the Europe of 2019 and 2020 is no longer the Europe of 2015. Once again, the same situation has been created. That's done and clear. Tolerate the illegal crossing of borders is also a violation of the principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u31	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, yesterday the European Commission proposed its climate law to make the European Union's objective of being climate neutral by 2050 binding. Everyone agrees that measures need to be taken to tackle climate change. However, everyone also agrees that broad support for these measures is important. These measures must be feasible and affordable, and everyone must be able to go along with them. That's the problem with the climate bill. The European Commission is opting for an approach that is virtually out of play for the Member States. The Commission wants to set the targets every five years by means of delegated acts, which means that the European Commission will work outside the normal decision-making process of negotiations with the Member States and the European Parliament. Not only do we have a problem with this power grip by the European Commission, but we also wonder how Europe can respond to the changing global economic factors if we chain ourselves up with that climate law. Madam Prime Minister, do you agree that these climate measures require broad support and that the basis for acceptance can only be created if the sovereignty of the Member States is fully guaranteed? Will you argue at European level that the Member States should be on the table to set the objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u32	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the European Environment Council indeed met this morning for the first debate on the Commission's communication on the Green Deal for Europe. As the name suggests, this is a debate, not decisions. The Commission will also present its Communication on the Green Deal for Europe Investment Plan. Specifically, the Commission would propose a legally binding target to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 instead of the current level of ambition of 40%. The EU institutions and the Member States would be jointly obliged to take the necessary measures at EU and national level to achieve this objective. To this end, the Commission will carry out an impact study by September 2020. This study will serve as a basis for the allocation of the objectives to be achieved by the Member States. This distribution should in principle be decided by mid 2021. As you know, the objectives of carbon neutrality in Belgium must be achieved by all levels of government. Belgium's position will therefore be determined in the coordinating body of the DGE, in which the Federal State and the Länder are represented. I know the point is important to you. That is why I would also like to point out that today's Council will also deal with the Just Transition Fund, which is the first pillar of the Just Transition Mechanism. This has already been discussed in the European Commission on Tuesday. On this subject, Belgium has important questions and comments. I have no doubt that Minister Zuhal Demir, who represents Belgium at that meeting, will faithfully convey all our concerns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u33	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, I am indeed confident that Minister Demir will express the right position on that Council. You're saying it right. It is still a debate. So we can still pull the alarm now. However, from 2030 onwards, the European Commission will be able to set the objectives that we cannot accept. The setting of climate objectives at European level has a major impact on the Member States and therefore on every citizen and on businesses. It is they who will have to put the money on the table. It is also those who will have to take the measures to ensure that they achieve those objectives. That is why it is very important that the Member States take part in the decision-making process before the targets are set. This cannot be done with the current climate law regime. So you must oppose this arrangement in the interests of our citizens, of our businesses and also of the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u34	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, instead of spending less when fewer people come in, we want to fill the gap that leaves the Brexit in the European budget by the survivors. In concrete terms, this means an additional EUR 1.2 billion for this country. In other words, the total contribution to the European Union will increase to more than EUR 5 billion every year. Moreover, this country will suffer drastic losses as a result of the recast which is being discussed. The correction to the Cohesion Fund threatens Belgium every year to miss EUR 270 million, while our agriculture will lose EUR 800 million. EUR 1 billion less in donations from the European Union, but EUR 1.2 billion more in contributions, i.e. an additional account of EUR 2.2 billion. Unlike other Member States that do not just agree to this and want discounts, you have given your agreement immediately. This country is not only world champion in long government negotiations, it is apparently also your ambition to become a world champion in terms of budget deficits. By the end of this year, you will be short at least EUR 12 billion. At least, because 1 % less economic growth was not yet taken into account by the coronavirus, which threatens to increase your budget deficit beyond the magical limit of 3 % of GDP. Madam Prime Minister, how do you explain to the Flemings, who are already the largest net contributors in the European Union today, that they will have to pay even more? With what mandate do you agree? You're in ongoing business, you've barely got 38 seats here. Why not ask for Parliament's approval first? Finally, why do you not urge the European Union to go to hell and at the very least, in view of the budgetary situation, do you not ask for a reduction for this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u35	Madam President, Mrs Pas, first of all I must tell you that as Prime Minister, but also as a member of the federal government, I am responding to the Belgians in general, and not to any part of the population. I'd like this attitude to inspire you. We had a few hours' discussion on Tuesday. It was the second time that we have met on this subject, but you were not present. Your group was present. I have answered all the questions. I have also replied to the question whether Belgium has already accepted anything. Belgium has not yet been able to accept anything, as negotiations are still ongoing. I also had the opportunity to talk about the quadrature of the circle. It is indeed extremely difficult to meet the requirements of all parties. Although the UK's departure represents a net loss of EUR 70 billion, it cannot be required to maintain all policy areas, while new ones are being launched and the Member States' contribution cannot be increased simultaneously. I would also stress the following: if the European budget were to be limited to 1%, as requested by the energy-efficient countries, this would, in spite of everything, result in an additional expenditure of just under EUR 1 billion. The position of Belgium remains unchanged. Belgium needs to take into account both the additional budgetary impact for the federal state and the future budget to ensure that certain European policies that are dear to Belgium are preserved, such as the Cohesion Fund and agricultural aid. A new date is currently awaited and the basis on which negotiations will be resumed is awaited. There is no doubt that the representatives of the people will be kept fully informed about the progress of the negotiations, as I have done so far. If you would like more information, I also invite you to the relevant committee, which will deal in detail with this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u36	You have not yet been able to accept it because Mr Michel has failed in his negotiations. It's no coincidence I'm talking about Flemings here. The Flemings are the largest net contributors to the European Union, not the Belgians. The Flemings are not prepared to give billions more to the European Union. They get a nasty migration policy in return, failed Turkey deals, more political correctness, less democracy and power grabs such as climate laws that the Member States want to take away powers with the so-called delegated acts with which they even want to punish the Member States if they do not participate properly in those CO2 dictations. That is a European Union to which the Flemish Interest Group does not want to cooperate, Madam Prime Minister, and for which we certainly do not want to pay an extra billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u37	Minister, you are Minister of the Budget. I read in the newspaper this week that you think our proposal to reduce VAT on energy to 6% is populist. You will find it populist to reduce the VAT on electricity to 6%. It is a proposal which we have been putting forward for ten years. We have also collected 225,000 signatures in order to advocate the need for this VAT reduction. Minister, our proposal to reduce VAT on electricity from 21% to 6% is not populist but popular. That's something completely different. I will also explain to you why this proposal is popular. It is popular because it is necessary, because more and more people are paying more and more and more people are tired of paying as much VAT on electricity as on luxury goods like caviar and champagne. How absurd is it that electricity in our country is taxed as a luxury product? More and more people are also tired of their electricity bill becoming more and more like a second tax bill on which one has to look for the electricity price between the different taxes. In the newspaper you spoke not about arguments and not about the social need in this country, but about populism here and populism there, because we are proposing to reduce VAT to 6%. Minister, if that is the criterion, then there are also populists in your party, very large populists even. I'll show you one of them. You probably know him pretty well. (The speaker shows a poster with a slogan and a picture of Charles Michel.) The title of Mr Charles Michel's visual on Twitter is: "Tax on electricity drops from 21 % to 6 %. Promesse uniform. Promise kept." How populist can one be, Minister? That is why my question to you is very simple and simple (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u38	Madam President, Mr Mertens, first of all I would like to invite you to listen to and read my interview very carefully. I never referred to the reduction of VAT on electricity or social amendments as populist measures. Never! Desolé. Relisez bien. The discussion was about the vote on the second disc of the provisional twelfths. Technically, it is intended to free up budgetary appropriations in order to ensure the continuity of the State for the months of April, May and June. However, I will be very clear with you. I find this neither the time nor the place to table an amendment to reduce VAT on energy. It is not the time, because political responsibility is also a budgetary responsibility. However, I do not want an amendment, even popular, to be adopted without taking full account of the future budgetary implications. It is not the place either, because the vote for the second quarter is a vote on the release of budgets to ensure that the administration can continue to work for the benefit of our fellow citizens. It concerns, for example, ensuring the continuity of the aid and police services, paying the salaries of officials or the possibility for the Public Health Office to have access to its appropriations. The legislative proposal put to the vote in Parliament is an approval of expenditure for the next three months. A possible VAT reduction for electricity is a tax measure. VAT legislation should therefore be amended, which is not possible in the context of the vote on provisional appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and for the invitation to read your interviews very well, and that is what I have done. You say that there is nothing we can do in Parliament because we are in current business. Your government may be on-going, but you are well aware that Parliament is sovereign and can therefore approve an amendment to modify an KB to reduce VAT on electricity. You say, as Minister, that you cannot do anything because the government is in current business, but I tell you one thing: Electrabel is not in current business and every month that you and Parliament refuse to deal with the disgrace of the expensive electricity bill is a month in which thousands and thousands of families in our country pay too much for electricity. I have asked you for a little political courage and a little perseverance to take effective measures to reduce VAT on electricity bills. You did not answer that specific question at all. Ik zeg... [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u40	That is the second topical debate for today. The same rules apply here as in the first debate. We shall begin with the groups that have tabled a question. So I give the floor to Mr Hennuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u41	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is expected of public authorities in the face of such a health crisis? They are expected to keep their heads cold - they are - but not only. They are also asked to show anticipation and sense of the organization. At the moment, we're not there at all. In the field, it's the total mess. Take, for example, masks. Since the shortage in this area has been known, however, we have not yet received any news. General practitioners work without protection and this is absolutely unacceptable. Yesterday we heard Mr. Ducrame promise us three million masks. Where are we? Is that acquired? If not, what is the answer to the doctors who have been waiting for them and who have been hoping for days to receive specific instructions and to be able to apply reliable and clear procedures? Minister, you have practiced as a generalist. That is why it is time for you to take into account the reality on the ground - which you have known - of these doctors who work day after day and who are currently very worried. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u42	Minister, Belgium is now also going through the crisis of coronavirus. If something has been proved in the last few days by this sequence, it is the absurdity and ineffectiveness of all the reforms of the state that, moreover, all the parties - including yours - have voted. From then on, you are also responsible. Indeed, what do we learn? The management of the epidemic is federal in nature, but the organization of the front line, which must face the epidemic, is the responsibility of the Regions. Hospital funding is the responsibility of the federal government, but the emergency plans that are applied to it are regional in nature. Now, let someone live in Charleroi or Antwerp, the coronavirus doesn't care! It's the same disease. What we need is not nine ministers who are walking on foot, but, of course, an effective federal policy that also provides the means to respond to this crisis. On 28 January, Madam Minister, we had already spoken in committee about the anticipation of this crisis. I asked you then, and I quote: "In the event of an epidemic, it is necessary to produce as little human to human transmission as possible and we need a mask stock. Do we have this strategic stock in Belgium? Are we prepared for this?" I asked you about the masks on January 28th. You then told me that it was not on the agenda. Today, some general practitioners do not have masks and hospitals are almost out of stock. We cannot order them, so we cannot follow the requested protocols. Minister, what are you going to do about this? I mean, are our hospitals ready? In the last few months, health workers have gone on strike because they are at a standstill. Are you going to find additional means to ensure that hospitals can adequately respond to this crisis, both in terms of personnel and equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u43	Madam Prime Minister, Madam Minister, a few weeks ago we called for the plan for the corona virus to be taken seriously. Good preparations had to be made. We did not want to worry people about this, quite the contrary. We wanted to make sure we were ready the moment we had to be there. That moment is now. Now we can still limit the spread of the virus, but then everything has to be on track. However, we see that all kinds of things go wrong. There are no more mouth masks for primary health care. Doctors, dentists, pharmacists, nurses and healthcare professionals feel abandoned. You reported last Tuesday that we were being examined to see if we could make our own mouth masks. I heard Minister Beke say there might be a backup plan and he'd see what else was left to get to the Defense Department. Meanwhile, the dentists are on rations. They can order 3 more boxes per month, which amounts to 150. They'll be there for just one week and a month will be four weeks. The test capacity of the central lab, especially that of the UZ in Leuven, would be saturated. One would even be lagging behind from more than a thousand to as much as two thousand tests. A quick result is important now, however, so that the people with whom an infected person has come into contact can be traced very quickly in order to reduce the spread. There is another aspect, the impact on our economy. There is already damage to various companies and entrepreneurs. It will undoubtedly increase. How will you solve the problems with the mouth masks? The textile industry has already indicated that it cannot simply start its production. What about the test capacity? Were the other labs and hospitals prepared to take over some of the work? What's the plan for this? Will our businesses and entrepreneurs be supported in these difficult times? Can the package of measures that was implemented, for example, during the period of the attacks, be repeated to support our economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u44	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, managing an epidemic is never easy. Procedures have been established, but it has been days and days since I relay the many problems faced by caregivers. There is a gap between the procedures on paper and the field. General practitioners, hospitals, nurses, caregivers, pharmacies, nursing homes, dentists, all converge to call urgently for equipment, including masks to protect themselves but also protect patients. They use logistical support, much faster test results, screening patients upstream of waiting rooms and hospitals to avoid contamination of other patients. In short, operational effectiveness is lacking. The calls are repeated, I relayed them. Madam Minister of Health, you deny or minimize. So, Madam Prime Minister, I appeal to you, because I hope to find in you an ally. There is an urgent need for concrete solutions. Yesterday and the day before yesterday it was urgent, today is a vital emergency. I'm weighing that word. If caregivers are affected by the epidemic, the entire health care system collapses. If the device is not effective, the virus is progressing. Prime Minister, rely on the caregivers. They deploy all their energy, they do an incredible job. Support them, bring them concrete solutions, urgently, but solutions on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the corona crisis in Belgium has so far been contained. However, here too, perhaps slower than in other countries, we are seeing an increase in the number of infections. Today, that was more than double than yesterday. If exponential growth continues, as we can expect, there are still a number of problems. Madam Health Minister, last week we discussed the shortage of mouth masks for aid workers. In the meantime, I have heard that the general practitioners are very upset that they have been in trouble for several weeks. Now, apparently, your scientific team is also concerned about the lack of test material. The reagents, the chemicals needed for the tests, are in danger of running out. The capacity is worrying. That's exactly what Professor Van Ranst says. Well, then we're starting to worry a lot. We are already so economical with these tests. I have two questions for you, Madam Secretary of State for Health. With regard to the masks, you indicated that you wanted to use the textile companies. Where do you stand with that? What is the real problem with the test material? Does the discussion about whether or not wider testing have anything to do with that? Especially, how can there be a problem in that area, when we knew for weeks that the virus was coming at us?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u46	Madam Prime Minister, Minister for Health, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to see you all here. That means none of you show any symptoms and no one stayed in their quarters. I am glad, because if all our employees, our self-employed, our officials stayed in their quarters without showing any symptoms, the crisis would cost us much more, without such a measure having any added value. We must be aware that we cannot anticipate all the risks and predict the future. In any case, the situation here, compared to other countries, is under control. Colleagues, a healthy country, a healthy economy and a sound budget are inextricably linked. Well, I am addressing the Prime Minister specifically - as far as the budget is concerned, it is five past twelve, and then I leave out the impact of the coronavirus. The economy is already slowing down worldwide and also in our country as trade and transport flows have been severely disrupted. Not only congresses and cycling races are cancelled, but also business trips. Brussels Airlines cancelled a quarter of European flights. Investment is also being postponed. This threatens to derail our budget even further. The governor of the National Bank, Pierre Wunsch, said last Tuesday in the Finance Committee that we need to put our budget in order quickly. The National Bank, the IMF, the OECD and last week the European Union called for our budget and the absence of structural reforms. We can't wait anymore. We risk going to jail. Just as the government has taken the cow by the horns to the corona crisis (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u47	I thought men could be short and concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u48	Madam Secretary, first of all, I would like to pay tribute to the way you deal with the coronavirus. We have already said it in committee: you deal with sangfroid. However, we must be aware that not everyone has the sangfroid in their veins. People have concerns. People have questions. The ultimate question remains, of course, how to protect the Belgian population even better. When people who landed in Belgium from abroad were told to go into quarantine at home, but used public transport to get home, it is normal that our citizens are worried about, for example, contamination on the train. When you see images of aid workers who still care for vulnerable people such as babies or seniors in hospitals without wearing a mouth mask, it is not surprising that people are worried about their health. The flow of information every five minutes by SMS or via social media with an update on the coronavirus, of course, also causes anxiety and stress among our citizens. Madam Secretary, how will the 100 Belgians who will return from Tenerife tonight be received? Do they get guidelines to get home? Previous passengers who have arrived in our country have been quarantined as a directive, but have used the public transport. What about the directives on vulnerable people? Emergency workers are still expecting communication on this. You have said that you will not all contact the aid workers individually by letter, but I do believe that we have come to a stage where more intensive communication is allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u49	Minister, we were able to have a long exchange in the Health Committee this Tuesday. The management of this crisis was praised for its seriousness and professionalism. Of course, in any crisis management, it is important to be able to adjust to persistent or emerging issues. In the questions, I would like to highlight the information and logistical support that must be provided to front-line professionals: family doctors, home nurses, caregivers, physiotherapists, pharmacists, dentists. We agree, Madam Minister, that there is no need for psychosis or alarmism, but it requires concrete organization and broad information. As early as January, the first recommendations made it clear that any person who returned from a risk area or had symptoms should stay at home and call his or her family doctor. The first line is therefore extremely important. Yet many professionals say they do not have the basic equipment to prevent spread or to protect themselves, protect others and treat them. In the equipment, there are surgical masks and FFP2, gloves and test kits to perform the smear. It is therefore important that they have and that we have more information on this. This requires broad communication. There is also a regret of the independent nurses for not being put in the loop of communication with the general practitioners. The latter themselves say that they have not received the relevant information. Minister, how many general practitioners are waiting for this basic equipment and test kits? What is the available stock of these equipment to date? Does the FPS Health intend to deliver this material to physicians and nurses? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u50	I now turn to the groups which have not tabled a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u51	Madam Prime Minister, Minister, I warned you last Tuesday in committee that we are not yet at the tip of the iceberg. You made me laugh when I said there were 15 infected people, while there were 13. In the meantime, unfortunately, we are already at 50. I said in committee that you should first of all provide our primary caregivers with protective equipment, and I continue to say that. Protect our general practitioners, nurses and physicists. After all, we will need those first-line caregivers in the event of a real breakthrough in the corona virus. It is simplistic to say that anyone who feels a little sick should stay at home, as if every self-employed person and entrepreneur could afford to do so. Stay home, stay in your quarters, we would have liked to hear you say that as Minister of Asylum and Migration, but we expect different and better communication from a health minister. Will you bet on protecting our primary caregivers? How will you do that? What better communication can we expect from you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u52	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, fear and panic are clearly not good advisers to the situation we have to deal with today. I would also like to thank you for not giving in to it. Still, citizens remain concerned. The same applies to doctors, nurses. Why? Because they have not been properly equipped while they are the first line of care, which is essential to managing this epidemic. For fear of being contaminated, doctors should not systematize the referral of their patients to the emergency services of our hospitals, which – as we all know – are already overloaded. Nor should our doctors and nurses themselves become, because they are not sufficiently protected, vectors of contamination. I think, in particular, of home nurses. Madam Minister, you explained in committee that Belgium participated in a group order of masks. Can you tell me how many masks have been ordered? On what basis? Have the needs been properly assessed? When and how will the distribution take place? What about tests and antivirals? Do you confirm that the number of laboratories conducting the tests will be increased? If so, to what extent? Would it not be time to take much more proactive measures to protect those at risk? I am thinking here of those staying in hospitals and in nursing and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, coronavirus is a matter of general concern to the public. I will not go back to the whole history of matter since the virus appeared. Instead, I will focus on the coordination aspect and the socio-economic aspect. Not that I'm not interested in health; far from it. It must be said that this is the first concern of this government. But the Minister of Health is here to answer these questions. I appreciate the concerns of the public and understand the need to respond adequately and continuously to them. I also know that some professionals, more directly exposed to contamination, are concerned about the evolution of the situation. Here too, a clear answer must be given by all levels of power. Each level of power is working to do so. I can guarantee that. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to thank all healthcare providers who remain mobilized in the performance of their tasks in a sometimes very difficult environment. As we know, Belgium's institutional structure is particularly complex. Indeed, in the field of health, for example, the skills are broken up between different new powers. The same applies to education and economic issues. Some may regret this, but we must work with the reality on the ground and the institutional reality as they stand today. It therefore seems essential to me that, in addition to the expert and technical working group and representatives of the different policy levels, which are united in what is called the risk management group, the political level should meet regularly. For example, a first consultation committee was held on the issue of coronavirus on Monday. Belgium has been preparing for weeks, in coordination with the federated entities, with respect for each other's competences, for the management of the global epidemic. At all times, these meetings are supported by the expertise of scientists, which allows the risk management group to submit the recommendations and measures necessary to manage the current situation. I would remind you that last Sunday I organised an extensive meeting of the nuclear cabinet with the ministers concerned in order to get a state of affairs. We knew that after several technical meetings, the return of holidaymakers would be an additional challenge for the management of the spread of the virus. The Concertation Committee of Ministers-Presidents of the various Regions and Communities, as well as the Ministers of Health and Education, met this Monday at noon. We had a new meeting this Wednesday morning, with the same people, including the Minister of Health, and in addition, the ministers responsible for the economy of the various levels of power. The aim is to bring these different bodies together at least once a week and more if necessary, in order to ensure uniformity of information and coordination in the actions undertaken by the different levels of power, respecting the competences of each. It is true that it is not always simple. It is true, Mrs Fonck, that, at these meetings, we also take the time to relay experiences and report back what is ours from the ground. I can assure you that this is the case. We're talking about it and we're trying to find solutions. The representatives of the Scientific Committee shall attend the meeting. They also have the opportunity to answer questions, but also to give their views. That's very important. Politicians aren't alone in the story. We are taking action on the basis of the information provided by the scientific community. They also receive input from the Inter-Ministerial Conference or ad hoc meetings with ministers at inter-federal level for their specific competences. For example, an IMC Health, an IMC Employment and an IMC Mobility were held this week in addition to the many working meetings organised by each entity, federally and federated. As the health issues will be developed by the Minister of Health, as I said, I will address, in a few quick words, the more socio-economic part. The health of citizens is indeed a government priority, but we know that the corona virus is likely to have a major impact on our businesses and the self-employed. I have therefore convened an inter-federal working group to coordinate the actions to be taken in this regard. Under the leadership of Ministers Muylle and Ducrame, the government also wants to endorse ten measures to support businesses and independents from tomorrow. In essence, they aim first of all at enabling economically affected enterprises to put their employees into temporary unemployment in order to preserve employment. It also covers methods of spreading, postponing and exempting the payment of contributions, withholding tax, social and tax taxes for companies and self-employed persons. In addition, together with the Ministers mentioned above, I will be receiving the Group of Ten this afternoon to take a further look at the difficulties faced by employers and workers. Finally, I would also like to stress the quality of the cooperation between the various levels of policy. Faced with major societal challenges, we must be able to work together in the interests of the whole population. Through the various means that I have developed, you realize that we will continue – but not only the Minister of Health – to follow the situation very closely. Indeed, I am convinced of the full commitment of the other competent authorities to the common objective of good management of the current situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u54	Mr De Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u55	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm giving you an update. We've had 50 patients in this country today, 50 diagnosed coronavirus patients. The first patient is cured, 48 patients are at home in isolation. There are families, going up to 8 people. Of course, that's fast. One patient does not have the mild symptoms the others have, but has been hospitalized in the St. Peter's Hospital with a respiratory infection. So it needs more concern, but it is well taken care of there. It's a flu virus. It's a new flu virus. I understand the fear associated with it, the fear of a virus of which we do not know the behavior and of which, of course, like all other viruses, the world, the planet travels around and knows no borders, no ocean, no city border, no municipal border. No mountain is too high to stop such a virus. There are more than 90,000 infected patients worldwide, of which 40,000 have already recovered, especially in China that was first affected. We have been preparing for the arrival of the virus for weeks since the outbreak in China. We didn't know when it would be there, but one thing we knew for sure: our country, no matter how small, wouldn't escape that virus. So we have been preparing for weeks, giving information via Sciensano and information we are getting from the World Health Organisation, from ECDC, from Europe, that is, from all possible bodies. We ensure good coordination and have made good agreements with the ministers of the various Länder. This cooperation with many ministers is necessary in order to provide the best possible care for our citizens. There is a referral hospital in Brussels – Saint-Pierre – as well as Antwerp. Our other general hospitals, which are 100, are all well equipped. They have contingency plans and are capable of catching people who cannot go home in quarantine. We therefore have sufficient capacity. The Scientific Committee also prepared a worst case scenario which was explained in detail at the committee meeting which lasted more than four hours. Who's getting hit? Everyone gets hit but 80% of people don't get sick. Only 15% become ill with symptoms such as general malaise, sore throat, cough and possibly fever. In the end, 5% of people are seriously ill. So we need to see everything in the right context and we have sufficient capacity to cope with it. As far as our medical corps is concerned, they've all been contacted several times through Sciensano. Hospitals have also been contacted. The Länder also had a number of meetings. That's how Wouter Beke met the residential and care centers this week. Ms. Morreale also consulted the first line. So we are not going to rewrite the special law here, although some would like to do so now. We all have our own competences and we work together. We also make sure this goes well. That is what all these consultations are for. Last Friday I simply called my colleagues without a moment of consultation to say that there was a crucial week coming and that they had to be ready. After all, many people came back and 48 of those 50 people were infected during a ski trip in northern Italy. As far as the people who come back from Tenerife are concerned, that is regulated by the State Department. It is also provided for by the Agency for Health and Health for the Flemings. For the Francophone community, this is AVIQ. It is important that citizens receive the right information. They can ask questions via the 0800 line and via www.info-coronavirus.be, a website of Health in the national languages and English. It also exists in German. The website can also be consulted in English because we have a large European community in Brussels, as the European Commission is here. The Public Health FPS has developed a three-phase risk management plan. The first phase is over. It was when the virus was expected, but not yet present in Belgium. The second phase is the current one, with people tested, diagnosed and potentially contaminated. They must also be tested and placed in one or the other form of quarantine; and, of course, take action. In the third phase, in which some countries are already in, the virus is everywhere and no more measures can be taken to dive the virus. At that time, advice from the risk management group may need to be provided and coordination by the Crisis Centre to take other measures. As the Prime Minister said, we have scientific advice from the risk assessment group and the risk management group. We base ourselves on science, on epidemiological and scientific data. There's a lot of talk about the test material. Where's the kit? Where's the kit? There is no such thing! It's the equipment used to take a viral smear. The Chairman of the Scientific Committee explained this in committee. I've read the transcript again. I have reread the report from that long sitting. There's no special kit. It's an ordinary virus. This requires a swap, the steel is taken from the nose and the steel is sent to the laboratory in a shell with gel. Don't talk about the special kit anymore! I don't know who invented this, but it doesn't exist. That test swap is requested at the lab. I have been a general practitioner for 25 years and from that experience I know how important it is to work with a good laboratory, as the laboratories supply all the material to the doctors. As far as masks are concerned, there is a global shortage. The market was disrupted for weeks or even months. The Chinese are the major producers of masks and, unlike in China, masks are not reserved only for professional healthcare staff and contagious people. In China, almost everyone wears a mask. China has even asked European countries to send masks to them, in addition to their production. To obtain masks, we now work on two tracks. A public procurement procedure has been launched by the government and there is a joint procurement, or joint European purchase, of which Belgium is part. We have registered in that too. I'm being asked about the number of masks and the type of masks planned. In a joint procurement procedure, no more details can be given. It is now important to know that we have good people on the ground, for which I would like to express my sincere thanks. I am thinking of ambulances, nurses, nurses, doctors and general practitioners, physicists and pharmacists. Everyone's doing their best. We therefore hope that we will have a solution for the masks as soon as possible. We also have good hospitals that are characterized by a great professionalism and a historically grown great commitment to our medical corps. The patient availability is high. What can people do for themselves? People need to wash their hands several times a day. You don't have to do that with alcohol bottles, but you do with soap... ordinary grandmother's soap... and water. People don't give each other hands or kisses. Sneezing and sniffing are done in paper handkerchiefs, which one immediately throws away. If you're sick, stay home. That rule does not apply to amplify everyone, but simply because it helps. Former President Obama has also confirmed it this week; perhaps you would rather believe it of him. European meetings will take place. There's another one scheduled for tomorrow. That meeting has to be co-ordinated. The WHO also gives opinions. Each country has its own infection rate, which makes coordination difficult. However, let us name things as they are. It is a new but mild flu that will continue to travel across the globe and will then become a seasonal flu, as we have just had one. So I'm asking you to put it in perspective. Protect the vulnerable. Kids seem to be less sensitive. Pregnancy is also vulnerable, but especially people of age and people with chronic diseases are vulnerable. Let us look at things in this way. All this panic is worrying people. People see images of empty shelves in Italy, and that's why people start hoarding here. There's no need for that. This really causes unnecessary stress and panic. I know it's hard to keep any coolness. I also said in committee that I was a general practitioner for 25 years. I got a medical education. One advice I got, I always remembered: if the doctor starts crying or walks away, where's the patient? Then who will help the patient? Let's all do our best to help our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u56	Prime Minister, Minister of Health, thank you for your response. First of all, in order not to give in to panic, the health care staff must be protected. That is not the case. For the time being, the government does not provide a clear and precise response on what it is implementing. Apart from Mr.Ducarme who comes to let go that he has found three million masks – we still don't know where they are! Between your very poor communication and that of Mr. Ducrame who tells anything... Frankly, if it's to make the field panic, bravo! To get the cacophony back on the ground, we're waiting for three things. First, that risk management group integrate the experience of generalists. It's really important. I repeat, masks are needed, precise procedures and screening equipment are needed for doctors. It is also necessary – because we may be arriving in phase 3 – for the KUL to share its analysis protocols in order to be able to perform tests. I don't understand why we're waiting and why we have to wait to share these protocols. It must now be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u57	Madam President, I think it's just amazing! We needed the Prime Minister here, who spoke to us for five minutes to explain how many meetings and consultations we need to do in this country to bring all Ministers X and Y together in an interdepartmental conference. It's really amazing! This is of course also the basis of the current mess on the ground! Then, Madam Minister, you say that doctors must not begin to cry. Of course they shouldn't do it! But that's not the problem that doctors are crying about. They don't have the equipment. Today, they spoke in the press saying that they cannot apply the procedures. What are you doing here? You're trivializing the situation. I don't think that's right. In addition, you say that consultation with general practitioners is the responsibility of the Regions. But they're asking to talk to you because they have to apply federal procedures. I find it irresponsible that you do not change your attitude at this level. Finally, at the hospital level, you tell us that everything is fine, when I think that is not the case. We see makeshift camps. I'm sorry, I had the testimony of a person who, with a two-and-a-half-year-old baby who has the flu, had to wait in the cold and be treated by 8°C. It seems to me that in a country like Belgium, we still have to be able to take better care of our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u58	Madam President, Minister, thank you both for the answers. Madam Prime Minister, Minister of Health, I hear you both talking about good coordination. Neither in the workplace nor in practice nor in the facts shows that coordination would be good. Mrs De Block, you yourself have said very often that prevention in health care is very important. Prevention is cost-effective and avoids a lot of misery. However, prevention is also important in dealing with an epidemic. This prevention must take the form of a comprehensive plan that should have been there and in which the various departments are closely involved from the outset, namely Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Defence, but also the different levels of policy, including cities and municipalities and provinces. I'd like to dot the "I" first. You indicate that 80 % have no complaints and 15 % have minor complaints. However, the facts are different when we look at the scientific data. These figures show that 80% have mild complaints, 15% are admitted to hospital and 5% are even in the intensive care department. That's right. This could be a considerable burden on our hospitals. It is therefore very important that we now work on a range of possible patients, so that they do not all have to be taken care of at the same time. After all, other patients also need to be cared for. Addressing an epidemic means more than surrounding you with medical experts at the time of the outbreak. A solid plan also involves a great logistical exercise, including an emergency supply of masks, protective glasses and ditto clothing. Madam Secretary, you may have seen our press release. In the meantime, in a few hours, we have managed to raise a number of stakeholders and ensure that we have enough mouth masks in the near future, namely ten days. So we have taken over some of your duties. It is bad that one group can do what eight ministers cannot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u59	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, will your group also pay for the proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u60	Madam Minister, you may look at the proposal and then decide whether or not to go into it. However, you should be pleased that some of your work is being taken over. Good planning with respect to the test capacity is also essential, so that it is fully available when needed. That's now. Now we can limit the spread and trace the contacts. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u61	Madam Minister of Health, I hope that your words about doctors and caregivers, so-called geignards, have exceeded your mind. Go see what they do on a daily basis! Go see the energy they give! Your job is to support them and not insult them! Your job is to give them the necessary equipment to treat patients and stop this epidemic. You try to do the best you can, but at the same time, very concrete concerns of caregivers are not met. That must be your priority. We must not panic, but we must not minimize the situation either. We have to act! In this respect, your reactions are too late and not effective enough. I take the example of masks. I met you personally, when no one was talking about it, and I told you face to face. It was only last week that you made this order. You are informed that France has already requisitioned. I hope you know that Germany is about to requisition all the masks on its territory. Little Belgium, stuck between the two, where will she get the masks? I'm afraid your order is partly on the floor! We're going to have to innovate and maybe import raw materials and make sure we have the masks on our territory. We have to move and we have to act! Prime Minister, you talked about support for the economy. Obviously, action will have to be taken. The first priority, even for the economy, is health. We have to give an accelerator to get concrete and effective answers, I listed them earlier. All caregivers must be met and progress must be made. I hope everyone here is ready to support and assist in every possible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u62	Madam President, Madam Secretary, you have communicated well over the past two weeks. You gave concrete and correct information that would help people. That's how you avoided panic. It may be said, that is a good thing. But, over the past week, when I find out that the general practitioners are very worried, angry, come and tell us that they're not getting any information, I'm really worried. I know the problem with the masks and I want to go along with it, but I think your communication with the general practitioners could have been better. Then I come to the third point I raised and to which you have not replied. I wasn't talking about kits to take tests, I was talking about the reagents, about the chemicals that are needed. Two days ago, there was a sudden discussion between professors whether there should be a broader test or not. Today, the same professors say that the products are actually out. I cannot get the impression that there was something wrong with that preparation and that this discussion was not quite what it seemed. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you to take action as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u63	Madam President, (for) care, common sense and cold-bloodedness, these are the three important principles for dealing with a crisis. I would like to thank all the people on the ground who are aware of that. I would also like to thank the ministers who have followed these principles. We must also take these three principles, (for) care, common sense and coolness, with us when we go home, as a Member of Parliament, as a parent and a candidate for the risk group to which I belong as a grandparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u64	Madam President, Minister, you say that the aid workers are best included in the criteria and will be protected. However, I still see today that aid workers are not protected as they should be protected. You also say that most patients have flown in. Together with many citizens in the country, I wonder why there are still no fever measurements at Belgian airports? You say that the most vulnerable patients must be protected. Then why aren't emergency workers in hospitals still wearing a mouth mask when they're taking care of babies or seniors? You also stress that no panic should be sown. Of course I don't want to do that here. I have said before that I respect the way you deal with this crisis. However, I would like to raise the concerns of the citizens and ask them to take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u65	Madam Minister of Health, thank you for your involvement. I heard some answers when you spoke. I also thank you because I have the feeling, today, not through the replies but through the answers you have given, that the situation has been taken seriously since January, at least. This management ensures that there is very good coordination. With the help of scientists, you coordinate the action with the federated entities and all the actors. I want to send a message because today I feel a completely different climate than the long work we have done in the Committee on Health. Today we hear a melody, shouting, contradictions about what had been declared in committee, and I find that a pity. Some MP doctors congratulated you for the good information you had given and for the material available to doctors. In terms of equipment, I hear some doctors would have kits and some wouldn't. In the end, it is not about kits but about basic equipment that they should all have. It is clear that there are probably loopholes in communication, but there is mostly misinformation. I invite you, ladies, to fight this misinformation and to master communication well at your level. Contrary to what was said, I learned that the problem of mask shortage was solved because a public procurement had been made. If I'm wrong, I invite you to correct my remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u66	Minister of Health, we had a long debate on coronavirus this Tuesday. You know I'm one of those people who think you have to keep your temper in order to handle such a crisis properly. On the other hand, cold blood must not correspond to denial. I have the impression that you have not heard certain messages, in particular those of front-line actors who were calling you directly, still today, in the press, to tell you that they are not all equipped enough. There is a disparity between general practitioners: not all do have the ad hoc equipment. This message has been relayed for many days and weeks by the health care staff, but I have the impression that you have not understood it, minister. I also have the impression that we still do not have an answer about laboratories. I asked you about other reference laboratories. We have one for now. I'm told that sometimes it takes 36 hours now to get a result. Results are not systematically reported directly when they are negative. Only positive results are reported. You're telling me that all hospitals are armed enough to accommodate a peak. It's not the messages that come back to me. We need to stay cool and not contribute to the environmental disaster, but we need to be able to deliver a clear message. That's the message that the Prime Minister was calling for. We must aim for a single communication. It's really essential. Today, you tell us that you cannot tell us how many masks you have ordered, or what models they are, because the Member States cannot communicate about them. But I realize that in other European countries we communicate and say how many masks we have ordered. France will soon receive 15 to 20 million. They've communicated, but we can't know. I think that, unfortunately, it helps to create a climate of disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u67	Madam President, for the first time in the world, a nation, Scotland in this case, has decided to make sanitary protections completely free. Women will no longer pay their towels and tampons. They will pick them up for free in pharmacies or other dedicated places. This may make you smile, but when you think about it, you think that this measure should be imposed everywhere. A thousand five hundred euros in a lifetime: this is what a woman has to pay, on average, for sanitary protections. Menstruation, menstruation, bleeding, every month, because she's a woman. This is inevitable, and the cost is as much, sometimes with consequences that one dares not imagine when the financial means do not follow. Young girls who miss school. Women who do not go to work because they are unable to protect themselves effectively. Women who use toilet paper or newspaper to protect themselves, or who do not change their protection regularly enough, with potentially dramatic consequences for their health. On the eve of 8 March, I really want to put the question of free sanitary protection in the perspective of the discrimination women face. I am thinking, in particular, of their purchasing power. Madam Minister, under the previous legislature, the PS Group supported and defended the reduction of VAT on sanitary protections. It was finally implemented in 2017. Has the Price Observatory considered the impact of this measure? Has it been passed on to the selling price? Would we be able to follow the Scottish example by introducing in Belgium free sanitary protections for all women?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u68	Madam President, Mrs Dedonder, in the United Kingdom, for some time now attention has been paid to a phenomenon:period poverty. This applies to women who have virtually no resources to buy sanitary towels or tampons. In Scotland, a law would have been passed which provided for the free provision of tampons and sanitary towels in public places such as meeting centres and youth centres. You know that in our home, it is the federated entities that are competent in this matter. Sunday will be International Women's Day. This is a good opportunity to focus on the impact of poverty on women alone. Period poverty is one of them. The Michel government, as you said, reduced the VAT rate in 2018 from 21 % to 6 % on tampons and sanitary towels because female hygiene is not a luxury. However, we must be careful not to fight only the symptoms. Indeed, sanitary towels and tampons are not just essential items. There are other products which are equally so: sanitary and food products, clothing, hygiene products. Instead of making these things available free of charge, we must continue to work to combat poverty in general but also among women. We must ensure that women have access to the labour market, that they can count on a financially accessible combination of work and family. This is what I am working hard to ensure that health care reforms are successful, so that everyone can benefit from quality care without having to bleed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u69	Madam Minister, of course, there is insecurity in many areas for both women and men. Here, I'm talking about a measure that only affects women. Free sanitary protection is a legitimate measure. It is a right for all women in matters of comfort, hygiene, health, purchasing power. Tampons, towels, cuts and other hygienic protections are simply essential to the lives of the majority of women. The step taken by Scotland today is an example to follow. My group will be submitting a text very soon so that our country will be bogged down in this direction because this measure is a measure to combat insecurity. It is a measure for better access to health for all, but it is also, and above all, a measure for women's rights, rights that we still intend to defend loud and clear this Sunday, in numbers, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u70	Madam Minister, like me, you will probably have been questioned by the report by Amnesty International and SOS Viol, which presents particularly overwhelming figures. One in two people in Belgium was sexually abused.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to conduct your discussions outside the Chamber and not here while someone is speaking?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u72	Madam President, Madam Minister, one in two people in Belgium has been subjected to sexual violence. One in four young people was raped. One in two victims of sexual violence were exposed, for the first time, before the age of 19. One in five women was raped. Only fourteen women who had filed complaints of sexual violence expressed satisfaction with that approach. These figures have been collated by NGOs, not by official bodies, from funds allocated to them. You probably learned about the recommendations. These NGOs call for sufficient resources for the training of police officers and magistrates, to improve their ability to detect and seriously apprehend violence, to receive and support victims in an optimal manner, and call for the application of zero tolerance for violence against women. We know that at present, 70 per cent are classified as unanswered. They call for a better collection of statistical data. As I said, they're the ones who collected this data. They also call for the continuation and expansion of multidisciplinary centres that deal with victims in a multidisciplinary manner. Finally, they call for prevention, but this is a different level of power. Minister, how do you react to this particularly challenging survey? What did you do with the resolution we voted on January 12, 2017 on rape? What are the very concrete measures being developed? How do you collaborate with the federated entities on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u73	Mrs Matz, sexual violence is still a major social problem, as the figures show. As Minister for Equal Opportunities, I have recently taken important steps to combat sexual violence. I am currently working on the establishment of seven new centres for dealing with such violence. In the future, there will therefore be a centre in each judicial district so that each victim can receive appropriate care near his or her home. More victims find the way to the centres. In 2017, there were two victims a day. Today, there are three victims a day. The centres are doing very good work thanks to their multidisciplinary approach. Victims are subject to medical examinations and receive assistance from the police and the prosecutor's office. By providing community support, we can support more victims and arrest more perpetrators. A good framework allows us to stimulate the propensity of victims to file complaints. 67 per cent of the victims who find themselves in the centres lodge complaints. Amnesty International also mentions the high level of rankings without follow-up. Of course, in a State governed by the rule of law, a procedure requires valid evidence. We must therefore focus on the proper collection of these. This is also what we do in the care centres, with the forensic roadmaps. In this way, not only is the filing of complaints faster, but we also provide stronger files. I recently invested in the training of 180 new moral inspectors. Steps are also being taken to improve and refine the recording of violence against women so that we can file better statistics. Mrs Matz, it is clear that the fight against sexual violence requires efforts in all possible policy areas. My administration is thus preparing a new action plan against gender-based violence. The fight against sexual violence is a priority. In conclusion, Madam President, on 18 December, the inter-ministerial conference on women's rights was also set up in order to strengthen cooperation between the levels of power and to strengthen the fight against sexual violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, I would like to highlight the establishment of these centres, which have a medical and judicial component. Currently, there are only three. You want to increase them, and that is extremely important, because it is through these centres that the treatment of rape victims is carried out. However, when you say that the rankings without follow-up are simply due to a problem of gathering evidence, we know that this is not the case. It is well known that justice still suffers from a lack of resources. That is why the next government should look at a budget dedicated specifically to combating violence against women, with an important focus on sexual violence. I look forward to your voluntarism. I have always told your colleague Geens that the plans are, of course, an interesting means, but provided that they are budgeted and implemented. I am thinking, for example, of the training of front-line actors. Similarly, in cooperation with federated entities, there is a need to focus on prevention among young people. It is enough to observe the statistics on stereotypes in circulation. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u75	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u76	I propose that the first two items on the agenda be introverted with the agreement of the Ministers concerned. We will therefore begin with the bill containing the final settlement of the budgets of public interest organizations for 2015, No. 950/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vanbesien, referred to the written report. Mr Ravyts, you have the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group continues to be disturbed by the late submission of this bill, which relates to the financial year 2015. This bill on the final account for 2015 of the institutions of public utility category A gives us the noses again about the accounts of the Government of the Buildings, which is not an insignificant federal actor. The Court of Auditors has so far refused even to give advice on this matter. The Court of Auditors makes the reservation that the Government of the Buildings itself made notes on the reliability of its own accounts. That can count, ladies and gentlemen. The shortcomings of the accounts, such as a lack of audit and the absence of internal audits within the Regie's accounting system, have already been raised and charged here and in the committees by several colleagues. The new financial application FaaS with the Regie should be operational by the end of this month. At the same time, the Regie is eagerly working on a correct opening balance and a correct closure of the 2019 account, as a starting point for FaaS. More generally, the Court of Auditors has for some time found that the quality of the federal state's accounts is not directly improving. One of the aspects is the lack of central control by the Federal Accountant. This service needs to be strengthened in terms of content. More resources should be used to monitor the quality of the accounts and clear guidelines for the departments. Minister Clarinval has committed himself to doing a good job of this. We shall keep him or his successor in it. Our group will abstain, not because the accounts submitted to the Court of Auditors would not be correct, but mainly for reasons of substance. Indeed, we do not fully agree with a number of expenditure in these accounts, such as for the Federal Agency for the reception of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u79	I have no other speakers. Does the minister want to answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u80	Mr Ravyts, as you say, we are indeed talking about accounts for the 2015 financial year. These seem and are figures from a very long time ago, but the reason for this is that the Court of Auditors has made an inversion in the years it has dealt with, because there is a change in the minister responsible: for the older years it is the Minister of Finance, as of 2018, the Minister of Budget is responsible for this. The Court of Auditors therefore first made the 2018 statement and only later that of 2015. Your comment on the Government of the Buildings is correct. The Court of Auditors does not want to publish any conclusions on this on the basis of the amount of problems that exist in the accounts. As you say, it should indeed be possible by 1 April of this year to make a correct statement on the basis of the FaaS solution. In parallel, the Regie is working with external partners to ensure that a proper opening balance can be made by 2020. This means that, of course, we should also be able to make a proper conclusion of 2019. The Minister for the Budget has indicated that he is tackling these problems, and I am counting on this to produce results.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u81	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u82	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (950/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (950/3) The bill has six articles. The draft law has 6 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur was Daniel Senesael, who referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this transposition of the Directive 2018/1581 into Belgian law is justified and necessary. The strategic oil reserves in our country have been managed for almost 15 years by APETRA, a nv of public law. This stock obligation is an international obligation imposed by Europe and the International Energy Agency. Already in the spring of 2018 APETRA raised the alarm about the method of calculating the stock requirement. After all, it creates unauthorized fluctuations and unstable stock requirements, making it difficult for APETRA to define a long-term strategy. Fortunately, the European Commission was prepared to review the 2009 European Directive, which obliges Member States to keep minimum stocks in storage. The European legislator has accepted that an unstable stock requirement should be avoided and has therefore adapted the calculation of the stock requirement. From the 2020 stock year, the threshold of 7% will be abolished. This allows the most advantageous calculation to be followed. Inevitably and unjustified fluctuations must indeed be remedied. It goes without saying that there are also other positive technical changes. The Minister stressed that there were no concrete retroactive effects on Belgium because the Belgian stock was sufficiently large. The initial management contract of APETRA with the Belgian State was extended in 2012 until a new management contract entered into force. The Court of Auditors noted in April 2019 that the Minister had not yet taken any steps in this respect to draw up a new contract, as an update of the Belgian oil crisis policy was awaited. Some royal decrees have been made and published in recent years, but at the beginning of last year two more cases had to be translated into decisions. The Court of Auditors urged that the further update be completed as soon as possible. APETRA's board of directors is apparently still working on a new version of the management agreement and is still working on an update of the oil crisis policy within the FPS Economy. In the course of this year, an adjustment of the crisis policy would follow. Then, of course, there is the question of the APETRA contribution, contained in the price of a number of petroleum products. We all pay this contribution to the pump, colleagues. This contribution depends on the evolution of oil prices. No minimum contribution has been set, which significantly reduces revenue and the result if oil prices fall sharply. APETRA nv seems to be essentially saddled with some EUR 1 billion debt. The NV is classified among the companies of the federal government. This debt is thus added to the public debt. In addition to a new management agreement, a government with full competence will also face this aspect in the following months. However, Flemish Interest will approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u86	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u87	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (897/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (897/3) The bill has 9 articles. The draft law has 9 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u88	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u89	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Thierry Warmoes, Greet Daems. The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (822/3) The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposed that this proposal be rejected. (822/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur is Mr Kris Verduyckt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u90	Madam President, I refer to the written report. We discussed this motion for a resolution in committee. There was also a hearing. You can find all the information on this in the report. This ultimately led to a rejection of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u91	Madam President, it all started with a study by the Platform for Combating Energy Insecureness under the auspices of the King Baudouin Foundation, dating from October 2019, advocating for the upgrading of the Gas and Electricity Fund. In 2017, 120,000 households, which were no longer able to pay their heating or electricity bills, were able to benefit from this fund. Because energy is a right. Poverty continues to rise in this country, as does the price of electricity, and CPAS can no longer afford to help households pay their bills or buy appliances to reduce their energy consumption. The PTB immediately assumed its responsibilities: we took up the recommendations of this study and incorporated them into this motion for a resolution, which was first submitted to the committee. We have heard from all the actors involved: the field associations, the CPAS and the energy sector. All of them were unanimous in saying that the needs were crying out. All said that the resolution resumed the necessary measures to remedy that situation. Everyone welcomed this, but then the government parties and the N-VA voted against our proposal, arguing that it required additional resources. Indeed, we need an additional $30 million to refinance CPAS so that they can help these households. However, we have learned during these hearings that dozens or even hundreds of millions are in dormant funds. The government doesn't use that money. These funds were created at a certain time, and the money is there without us doing anything about it. And I am not even talking about the 172 billion euros that sleep elsewhere, much further, in tax havens, which is also the result of your government policy. I find this particularly cynical attitude on the part of the right-wing parties because energy insecurity currently exists. This is the result of your policy, of the liberalisation of the energy sector that has been voted on by all of you here. I can only note that you have no heart and no will to correct socially and a minimum of the results of your liberal policy. However, last Monday at the RTBF, we could hear the minister of the budget who is no longer present among us saying: "If we need means in the face of a crisis, we will free them". Do you not understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a crisis? Hundreds of thousands of households struggle to heat up, prepare their meals, light up and have a strict minimum of comfort. I would like to quote Sabine, a single mother who says: "I'm always afraid to turn on my heating, but I have no choice because I wouldn't want my little girl to get sick. Today, everything is expensive. Rent, electricity, everything's just increasing. When we go to the CPAS to ask for help, they're overwhelmed and don't have time to help us properly." Testimonies like this, we're getting more and more. There is an urgent need for action. You are not very numerous on the benches of the government parties or on the benches of the N-VA to hear me. Your vote against our resolution, of course, did not surprise us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u92	We are indeed here to listen to you, but you were apparently not in the Finance Committee last week. The governor of the National Bank was a guest there. He proposed a full report, which, among other things, states quite literally that the increase in purchasing power in recent years had not been seen in decades. Maybe you could read that report, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u93	Purchasing power may increase on average, but poverty is also increasing and this is reflected in the figures. By the way, I didn't mention you personally. And now I turn to the left. We were indeed surprised to see the socialist and environmental parties abstain, otherwise the resolution would have been approved in committee. Frankly, I don't understand it. It's a slap for all the associations that worked on this report. You're saying you're defending social causes. Even yesterday, in the Committee on the Economy, you called on Minister Muylle to rightly denounce the rise in the social rate for electricity. But you are abstaining on our motion for a resolution with the only argument that a resolution is superfluous and that legislative work is needed. Yet, dear friends of the environmentalist and socialist parties, you have tabled dozens of resolutions. Every week, resolutions tabled in committee are discussed. However, as the government is in a state of day-to-day business, it is very important that resolutions be passed that give this government a mandate in day-to-day business so that it can solve people's social problems. Had our resolution been approved in time, Minister Marghem would not have been able to freeze the Social Fund, as she did again last December. Dear colleagues on the benches of the PS and Ecolo, this is therefore a call to bring you back to reason. Think first of the 400,000 households that are in energy poverty! There is still time to regroup and vote against the rejection of this resolution. You have many local agents in your ranks. Don't come after complaining that your CPAS don't have the means to meet people's social needs. I will also say it in Dutch, to the attention of colleagues from sp.a., Green and CD&V, as you say you are also social: please do not abandon those hundreds of thousands of families and vote against rejecting the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that we are in a rejection procedure. We have heard the rapporteur and the author trying to convince his colleagues. This is not a question of repeating the debate. The debate will resume if we refuse to reject it. Mr Ravyts, I give you the floor. May I invite you to be brief?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u95	I'll be very brief. Mr Loones also took the floor, of course, because the N-VA was expressly applied for by Mr Warmoes. I find the voting behaviour of the progressive parties curious, but I will strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure and come back to my explanation of vote later. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u96	Mr Laaouej, are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u97	Madam President, our colleague has called on us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I also reserved my expression for the statement of vote, but since you are questioning us, we will respond. Understand that we have no lesson to learn! I don't need to remind you how much energy insecurity is a priority for the Socialist Party. I do not need to recall all the work we have already done with our colleagues in this kind of anti-energy precarity coalition, particularly with Mrs Van der Straeten in December. We are already in the concrete. That is why we will abstain on your text. It is because it is obsolete, given the work that Parliament has already undertaken on this issue. We're already in another phase. We're in reality. We are in the concrete of the measures. You are proposing a resolution which, compared to the work already undertaken, is late. That is what will justify our abstention. Keep your lessons, please! We have no lessons to learn. Again, we are in another phase of work, and we will continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u99	Mr Prévot, I understand that you have already justified your vote. Mr. Verduyckt, quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u100	I intended to give an explanation of vote on the matter, but since you mention our party, Mr Warmoes, I would like to make the following point. You know we have a good partner when it comes to such matters. When it came to the nursing care fund, we showed that we are fully involved in this. In this legislative chamber, however, it is our first job to make laws and provide concrete solutions for the people. There are so many things that we could agree to in principle. It is very easy to make a lot of resolutions. In addition, concrete legislative proposals have already been made on the issue. The way in which a resolution is made, after which the problems would have been solved, is a little too easy for us. You know as well as I do that's not true. That is why we will not support the motion for a resolution. We shall abstain in the vote. We fully support the proposals put forward by Mrs van der Straeten and which we have signed in the meantime, in which we are trying to find concrete solutions for the people. We think that's much more important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u101	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u102	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Barbara Creemers, Séverine de Laveleye, Laurence H annoyance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Rigot and Mrs Tillieux, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u104	Colleagues, in 2002 Belgium was a pioneer in euthanasia. The law passed at that time made it possible to opt for a worthy death under strict legal conditions. Over the past 18 years, the practical limits of that law have been made clear several times, by patients, citizens, active associations and doctors. Certainly the legal framework for the declaration of will is far from perfect and adapted to the needs. We therefore felt it necessary to correct and improve the law on this point. To date, the declaration of will is valid for five years from the moment it is drawn up. Many patients and doctors, as well as us, don't think that makes any sense. His vision of a dignified death has nothing to do with deadlines. It's about a belief, a wish, an informed choice. It cannot be poured into deadlines. It is as illogical as making marriage limited in time and, for example, to mention the fact that it would only be a commitment for five years. If, at the age of thirty or forty-seven, one is convinced that one no longer wants to live if one enters an irreversible coma, then perhaps ten or fifteen years later it will be. Unless people change their minds. Of course, you can always do that. The figures show that in the last ten years, 382 people have withdrawn their declaration of will on euthanasia. That is what we are responding to, because it is possible to amend or withdraw his declaration of will at any time. By no longer sticking a period on the declaration of will, we make the most logical choice the default option. Is that change necessary? Yes. Because the figures of the Public Health Office show that of the nearly 130,000 Belgians who have made such a statement in the last ten years, almost 30,000 still living Belgians, the declaration of will has expired. Last year alone, more than 7 000 Belgians had to renew their declaration of will. A void declaration of will means that the doctors will no longer be able to meet the patient's wishes if they end up in an irreversible coma. With that problem, we want to get rid of our bill. On our original proposal on the unlimited validity of the declaration of will, colleagues from Open Vld and PS tabled amendments to strengthen the conscience clause. We had constructive discussions on this in a spirit of open cooperation, for which we thanked. I shall therefore leave it to colleagues from the committee to explain their own contribution to our legislative proposal. A declaration of will gives us a voice on the end of life when one is no longer able to do so. It's been in the law for 18 years. In my view, that voice should not depend on the day, month or year in which one enters that irreversible coma. There is therefore no point in imposing an administrative obligation to do so, which means extending the declaration of will every so long. Thus one respects the patient's wish for the end of life he or she had planned in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the N-VA on this issue and the debate that is or is not taking place here is not a preliminaries to the wider debate on euthanasia, which has been in demand for some time now. That is a debate which I sincerely hope will be able to take place with the necessary thoroughness and social influence. I say this because for the N-VA Group there is no preliminaries for the present bill. There is no conservative angle that would be opposed to declarations of intent, even if it seemed to be pushed in that direction in committee. The approach chosen and used to get this bill through in committee is not an example of how it should be done for the N-VA Group. Hopefully this will be the last time an ethical debate has to take such an erratic course to the plenary. It has been a rather strange course. It actually started with the proposals that suddenly came on the agenda, while in the previous legislature there was a broad majority in favour of changing the system around the declarations of will to ensure that people could also put them down forever. In short, the possibility of expressing and laying down a declaration of will and allowing it to last forever already existed. That law should be in force today. Only the KB of the De Block cabinet is missing. I have never understood why a KB was never drawn up, which would have allowed people today, yesterday or in recent months to opt for a declaration of will that lasts longer than five years. I can't stop thinking that's weird. This is a debate that, as far as I am concerned, should not have taken place. The previous proposal also had some additional advantages over what is ahead today. There was much more freedom of choice for the citizen. The citizen could choose between a declaration of will for five years, for ten years or for as long as he wanted. The government also took on an additional task which, in my view, only benefited the citizen. In fact, the previous proposal adopted stated that every ten years the government would let people with a declaration of will know that it exists and would inform them of the possibility of making changes to it or not. There's a reason for that. In fact, that is what the Council of State confirms in the report on this bill. Imagine submitting a declaration of will at 18 years and this will only be discussed at 98 years. It is not entirely wrong to think that some people will not even remember making up this paper, let alone changing an opinion in eighty years of life. All right, we started the discussion in committee after all. In the beginning, this was not even worth the word "debate" or "discussion." There wasn't any discussion, there was just talk. Amendments were tabled which no one knew exactly what they were about or which dart had been removed and replaced by a new dart, and what meaning this actually had. The majority parties of this proposal also had a very difficult time with this. They had to suspend the committee for a very long time so that they could proceed very quickly to the vote which could not have happened to all the groups because we simply did not know what was to be voted on. It is a normal question in such legislation to ask in committee for an opinion from the Council of State. However, it has come to the point that this has had to be done in plenary rather than in committee, under pressure from our party, from cdH, from CD&V and from Flemish Interest. That was a good thing. Even the parties that have submitted the proposal will have to admit this. Finally, a fair debate has been held in the last committee and the necessary changes have been made on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State. There were a lot of them. I therefore propose that, in future, the Council of State's opinion should be sought in committee rather than pushing through such legislation quickly. That is how the debate ended. To finish, what is ahead of us today? The Council of State was largely addressed. There is one point on which the opinion has not been followed. Our group has always supported CdH's amendment in this respect, and if they did not retable it, I think we will. The Council of State also calls for citizens to be given a choice. I still do not understand what one can have against it and will therefore support it again. However, I have to admit that the most important thing is that we are finally going to implement something that was rightly decided in the previous legislature. After all, there was a problem with declarations of will and with people for whom those five years were too short and who had not been informed that it had actually expired. There is no discussion about that. My group will vote freely on what is before us today, as is always the case in ethical discussions. However, there is certainly something to be said for the argument that the declaration of intent can be withdrawn or amended very easily at any time. That will also have to be demonstrated by the KB. This in itself can provide sufficient guarantees as long as public opinion is sufficiently informed. I should like to conclude my speech. However, I would like to reiterate the call for the following ethical debates to be conducted with a little more thoroughness and honesty. As far as the declarations of will are concerned, I think there is absolutely no need to ensure that they can be done forever. People have to be able to decide for themselves. That was our opinion in the previous legislature, and it still is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 28 May 2002 Belgium adopted the law decriminalising euthanasia, thus concretizing the will of a large majority of Parliament and public opinion to allow all those who, in the face of unpairable suffering, die in dignity. This law of freedom, respect for everyone and responsibility has given the word back to those who suffer, and allowed doctors to lay down what I personally describe as the ultimate act of humanity. Ten years later, we had to fight again to get this legislation extended to minors. Today, we can introduce an additional legislative and civic act. An act that reflects my group's struggle for many years: to abolish the validity of the early declaration of euthanasia. My group, listening to associations, doctors and patients themselves, is constantly arguing for this abolition. As evidence, last April we tabled and adopted an amendment to that effect in the Committee on Justice. Unfortunately, at the end of the discussions, despite our determination, this was accompanied, at the time, by information to be given to the declarant every ten years. Our colleagues at Ecolo-Groen have come back to the charge by proposing an amendment to the law similar to the one we originally defended, which we would like to thank them for. Today, therefore, there is a question of a pure and simple deletion of the period of validity of the advance declaration, without any other conditions. This is an important change. However, let us be clear, we are not expanding the possibilities of using euthanasia, we are carrying out a technical but essential adaptation. Let us also be clear on another point: we firmly defend the freedom of choice, at every moment, for each and every person, to withdraw freely or re-introduce a request in the course of his or her experiences, doubts or certainties and the evolution of his or her will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u107	Let us be clear, we cannot be more clear: with this bill, we obviously and completely maintain the right to retract. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support this text because it reflects our deep conviction of the necessary individual freedom to choose to die in dignity. We will also support it because it allows us to take three strong steps for greater freedom for the patient. As we said in our committee discussions, which were strong, rich, intense and constructive, the PS Group wanted to go further and take further steps by tabling three amendments which have been supported by many colleagues. We would like to thank each and every one of them. Our objective is clear: to prevent any hindrance to euthanasia. As such, I am proud that my group led the fight to include the prohibition of collective clauses in the law. I am proud to put an end to practices that violate the right of every patient to die in dignity. Again, some will argue that we see problems where they do not exist, that no care institution prohibits practice and that only individual conscience clauses prevail. I will remind them that the press has only just a few weeks ago brought to light the pressure of Catholic hospitals in Flanders, which impose palliative care instead of responding to requests for euthanasia. I will also recall the case of this nursing home which, in 2015, refused to accommodate a doctor who had to practice euthanasia for a seven-year-old terminally ill. The patient then had to return to her home, with all the harmful consequences that can be imagined for her and all her relatives. I cannot help but rethink the remarks made at that time by the primate of Belgium, who, referring to Catholic hospitals, proclaimed: "On the institutional level, we also have the right to decide that we are not going to practice euthanasia or abortion." For my group, it is clearly: no! If we defend the individual conscience clause of doctors, it is therefore intolerable that care institutions take a moral stand, whereas they are recognised by the public authorities and must therefore allow the legislation to be applied, in this case: that access to euthanasia is guaranteed if the conditions are met. The PS group has also made two other fundamental advances that ensure that anyone who wishes to receive euthanasia from a doctor can access euthanasia under the best conditions and die in dignity. Yes, without a doubt, we recognize the right of each physician to exercise his or her individual conscience clause, but no, it cannot be used to impede a patient's access to euthanasia. The first fundamental step is the determination of a maximum period of reflection for the requested physician. From now on, he will have seven days to make his decision and whether or not to make euthanasia. I would like to make it clear once again, as clearly as possible, that this is not the time limit for the doctor to decide whether or not to receive this medical act, but a maximum period for taking his decision whether or not to carry out this act within the framework of his therapeutic freedom and freedom of conscience. Second fundamental step: the obligation to guide the patient in case of refusal. The doctor now has this obligation to transmit the contact details of a centre, of an association specializing in the right to euthanasia (the Association for the Right to Die in Dignity, for example) so that the patient or person of trust can be guided in the steps to be taken in connection with this request. Dear members of the House of Representatives, it is not up to me to convince you on this ethical issue that appeals – I have no doubt – to your deepest personal values. It is for me to remind you that this is the dignity of everyone who will appeal to your vote in your soul and conscience. In conclusion, I leave to your reflection this quote from Gilbert Hottois: "Treat others not as you wish to be treated but as he wishes to be treated."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the cat is away from home, the mice dance. The debate on euthanasia or at least the rather questionable presentation in the Committee on Health is a good example of this. We're dealing with a government on-going business. On the left-hand side of the hemisphere, we take advantage of it to put the ethically raised finger 'we know what is good for you' in the air even though ethics and morality sometimes seem a little lost there. In the debate on abortion, this even led to the comparison of an unborn child of 18 weeks with, yes, a kneecap. Understand who can understand. The debate on euthanasia also suffered from the ethical profiling urge. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot shake the impression that the proposal, in its original form, was quickly and quickly put together in the hope of presenting something ethically. The proof of this is provided by the fact that, in committee, almost every question at first reading, ladies and gentlemen will testify to it, leading to suspensions of five minutes, ten minutes, fifteen minutes, sometimes even more than half an hour, and that only because the authors could no longer explain exactly what was in their bill. The number of repairs, sub-amendments, amendments, and perhaps especially the way in which they were submitted, cannot have convinced anyone of the fact that the original legislative proposal was an excellent legal document. It involuntarily reminded me of an episode of Help, my husband is a clutterer. A battery of opinions later, opinions which were largely converted into amendments, we are now standing here with that bill. A first question to ask, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Van Peel also asked whether the legislative proposal should actually be there. If we are very honest, the answer to that may be no. More than a year ago when I and many other colleagues were not yet elected, there was a similar bill here, in which the citizens themselves could decide how long their declaration of will would be valid. The citizen was thus able to decide as an individual on the period of validity, while in this proposal Father State will do so for the citizen. The choice of the individual is clearly curtailed here. How they rhyme with liberalism with the colleagues of Open Vld is to me a question mark. No, Mr De Caluwe, I will not give you any lessons about liberalism. At the beginning of December, I thought everything had to do with keeping Mrs Rutten's chances of being Prime Minister. In the meantime, however, I have noticed that these opportunities and ambition are euthanized, with the cause of a complete political life. Our good colleague, Mr Fonck, tabled an amendment which would allow the citizen himself to make the choice again between a declaration of will of fixed duration or a declaration of will of indefinite duration. That amendment did not succeed, despite the undoubtedly appreciated support of the Flemish Interest. Ladies and gentlemen, that amendment did not make it, whereas it simply stated that the declaration of will would be of indefinite duration unless the patient or the citizen does not want it and that is explicitly stated differently. That makes sense, especially when we know that every five minutes during the debate in the Committee on Health we have to respect the will of the patient, of the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, that logic does not seem to be spent on our house here, because one of the reasons for voting the amendment is that you put it down just as well. I would like you all to sit down so that you do not fall off your seat. I have to admit, I don't get it. My mind is too small for that. Until today, I have still not been given an answer to the question of how it would be possible to allow a person to choose between a declaration of will of unlimited duration or a declaration of will of limited duration, and thus to extend the choice, to restrict freedom of choice. I have asked that question several times in committee, but I am still waiting for an answer. Another argument to vote away Mrs Fonck's amendment was that the option between a declaration of will of limited duration and a declaration of will of unlimited duration would ensure that you are still sitting down and that people should think in advance. I promised my group chairman that I would not become too cynical, but I suggest that people should think about their lives and their deaths. Where would the world go if we were no longer allowed to decide for the people? My mind is literally too limited for that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the non-registered declarations of will are also the subject of the legislative proposal. It has been argued that it is difficult, if not almost impossible, to contact people with an unregistered declaration of will. That's right, Mr De Caluwe, there's no pin in that. In that context, you also mentioned that it was very difficult to bring the elderly to the town hall to register their declaration of will. I dare to doubt that, but that was not my point, and that is what I said in committee. I wonder whether, with such arguments, the legislative proposal is the right way forward. Wouldn't it have made more sense, if you wanted to solve the problem, for example, to simplify the way you register? For example, would it not have been more logical to allow registration through the general practitioner, the notary, the pharmacist and which official functions you can list? Wouldn't that have been a piste worth investigating? I ask myself this question and regret that we did not examine it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that this is a reflection, so you do not have to interrupt me if it is already laid down elsewhere in the legislation, but with which I personally have a problem, is the fact that the healthcare institutions are obliged to join the story. Healthcare institutions are often set up from a certain world view, a certain ideology, a certain ethics, but the present proposal does not take this into account in any way, quite the contrary. Why do we all need to impose pricey euthanasia on a care institution established from a specific philosophy of life? Why should we impose euthanasia on that care institution when it does not like it at all for philosophical reasons? As long as it is made clear to the patient, I have difficulty with the fact that we want to impose it. The patient has rights, but does a group of caregivers have a care institution, after all, is a group of caregivers not entitled? Do they not have the right to association, does that association not have rights? That is a question I am asking myself in the depths of my thoughts and I hope you will ask them all. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Flemish Interest assesses every proposal on its content. Despite the fact that we have raised a number of issues concerning the proposal and that we have criticised the text, we are not opposed to a declaration of intent of indefinite duration. The Flemish interest is for the patient's freedom of choice, in the widest possible sense. We want to fully respect the will of the citizen, of the patient, and not just in one direction or another. The Flemish interest is for full freedom of choice. It is precisely because the freedom of choice in the proposal does not fully come into its own, that the Flemish interest cannot fully support the legislative proposal. That is why the Flemish interest will be abstaining in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to recall the position of the MR Group on ethical issues such as euthanasia: everyone is free to position himself according to his convictions. Personally, I would like to say that the proposed law is balanced and achieves its main objective, namely to simplify the procedure in various respects. The law of 28 May 2002 provides that the advance declaration of euthanasia is valid only if it has been established or confirmed less than five years before the beginning of the impossibility of expressing its will. This bill removes this five-year period of validity because it is an unnecessary administrative constraint. Everyone is, of course, free, as soon as he or she wishes, to withdraw or modify his or her early declaration of euthanasia. I would also like to point out that the doctor's freedom of conscience remains a fundamental principle in this proposal, as is already the case in the 2002 Act. Section 14 of the Act provides, inter alia, that no doctor is required to practise euthanasia and no other person is required to participate in euthanasia. In practice, therefore, the doctor always retains the ability to refuse euthanasia. This refusal may be justified either by a medical reason or by exercising one's own freedom of conscience in the event that euthanasia is contrary to the physician's convictions. In this regard, the exercise of the physician's freedom of conscience should be guaranteed in order to avoid external pressure on the physician. This is why the proposed law being debated today makes the following amendment: no written or unwritten clause can prevent a doctor from practising euthanasia under legal conditions. In this way, the doctor's refusal to practice euthanasia can be exercised freely. Indeed, our will is to give priority to the patient's higher interest and right to self-determination. These funds cannot be limited by the choice of care facilities. In other words, the right of self-determination and euthanasia, provided the legal conditions are met, must be possible under the most reasonable conditions for the patient and must prevail. I will not go into detail on all the other aspects of this text, but it is important to stress that we have been very attentive to the opinion given by the Council of State. We have therefore taken care to make the necessary amendments to the text. At this level, I will mention a few examples of changes made in our work. When a physician refuses to perform euthanasia for medical reasons, we have made provision for the physician to inform the patient in a timely manner, that is, as soon as possible, and to record this reason in the patient's medical record. It is also provided that a doctor who refuses to practise euthanasia shall be obliged to transmit the contact details of a centre or association specializing in the right to euthanasia, without prejudice to his or her freedom of conscience. We have planned this so that the patient or trusted person can be guided in the steps to be taken in the context of the euthanasia request. These centres and associations exist in both the Flemish Region and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the few elements on which I felt it was important to come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make it clear that we too are not opposed to a declaration of will of unlimited duration. Nor are we opposed to euthanasia being carried out in careful circumstances. That is clear now, because we are often framed, as if we are opposed to it. For a few months now, I have regretted the absence of an adult debate on ethical issues. There is no answer to our arguments, to the points we are raising, because this does not fit in with the framing of progressive versus conservative, which is now also proposed by the proposers. I don't feel at home in that. I would have liked us to have been able to discuss technical matters in this debate. That did not happen after the opinion of the Council of State, because at that time only the proposers sat together. However, it is quite clear that we could have made certain concessions and that we could have done so in an adult debate. Today we are stuck in the framing of progressive versus conservative, while we are well aware that there is support for euthanasia and that that possibility absolutely must exist. We do not serve the citizens, not the legislation and not the patient who is in difficult circumstances. That is why we were in favour of the declaration of will on euthanasia last year, which unfortunately did not enter into force and which actually allowed the citizens to choose for themselves. What is so difficult about letting citizens really choose, to see what really corresponds to their actual will? After all, that is important. That's what the Council of State says. The farther away this declaration of will is from implementation, the more uncertain one is about the actual will of the citizen. The law that was passed last year was fully in line with what the citizen could really want. There's no one to object to that, is there? In my opinion, it also gave very little confidence to Minister De Block, who had to implement the Royal Decree and could include the various possibilities, from certain deadlines to indefinite duration. The bill before us today has come a long way. We had a number of objections in principle and a number of legal and technical matters. The second reading meeting was very chaotic. It has been referred to a number of times. It was a real kindergarten class that we should be ashamed of. Our intention was to make correct legislation. If we had not asked for an opinion from the Council of State, we would have had bad legislation. In the end, you have admitted that, by tabling numerous amendments. The opinion was particularly critical. In fact, the proposal looked like a hollywood legislation. It would have been useful to consult with us, too. The purple-green parties have, of course, studied the opinion as we have. They have tabled a series of amendments which were appropriate to them on certain points. We have also tabled a number of amendments, which were fully in line with the opinion of the Council of State. However, the purple-green parties did not find it worthwhile following us. That is why we shall once again support the amendments tabled by Mrs Fonck. We shall also table two further amendments ourselves. If they are not accepted, we will abstain in principle. After all, we want proper legislation. First of all, what are we having trouble with? The Council of State considers it important that every citizen has freedom of choice. The previous speakers of the N-VA and the Flemish Interest have stressed this enough. Citizens should be able to decide for themselves how long their declaration of will is valid. That is an important principle. There are arguments, such as the question of what happens if a patient is no longer able to change his declaration of will. That reasoning can easily be reversed. The declaration of will may as well not be withdrawn if one is no longer able to do so. That argument is therefore not correct at all. Leave it to the citizen and respect the principle of caution. Let the citizens decide for themselves how long their declaration of will is valid and give them the opportunity to take responsibility for it themselves. The purple-green parties assume that no one will opt for a statement of a fixed duration and that everyone will agree for an indefinite duration. I'm afraid I can't rely on that statement. However, according to the Council of State, this creates discrimination between a person who has an indefinite declaration and a person who wishes to make a fixed-term statement. We absolutely want to avoid that. We do not want to impose a choice on anyone. Every citizen is equal and must be free to choose. That is our opinion in the current debate, but also in other debates. That certainly applies to euthanasia. I therefore naturally support the amendment that we tabled together in committee. Today, too, our group will support it in order to allow free choice. Secondly, the Council of State has given clear guidelines on the obligation of referral when a doctor refuses on the grounds of his conscience. The Council of State stated that, if the legislator wishes to establish a scheme in the event that the patient or the trusted person himself does not wish or can designate a doctor, an obligation on the physician to provide a general information brochure with an overview of the various end-of-life decisions or to refer to a source where the patient can find the necessary information. We also consider this to be extremely important and would have liked it to be in the law. That didn't happen. One actually requires the doctor to refer only to centres specializing in euthanasia, while the Council of State says that that choice should be left to the patient. After all, that patient himself is able to choose which center he wants to go to. If one puts that in the law today, if one gives only one choice to which the doctor must refer, one actually forces the doctor to cooperate in euthanasia, which is prohibited by law. This undermines the freedom of conscience, which is enshrined in Article 9 of the ECHR. This article clearly states that any doctor may act on the basis of his conscience. The amendment tabled by the purple-green parties on 18 February, which was adopted in committee, completely contradicts the opinion of the Council of State. I would just like to stress that the bill states that in any refusal to apply euthanasia, whether on conscientious or medical grounds, the doctor must pass on to the patient the coordinates of a center or institution specialising in euthanasia law, e.g. LEIF. This means, in practice, that if a doctor considers that the conditions for euthanasia, for example in psychological suffering, are not met or that it is a completed life and therefore he refuses on medical grounds, he will also have to pass on the coordinates of LEIF, while he is quite convinced that the euthanasia does not comply with the legislation. In this way, the doctor is actually treated as someone who has to cooperate in euthanasia. He needs to send patients to a center that doesn't think about this neutrally. That is even more far-reaching than the text sent to the Council of State, and that is why we absolutely do not agree with it. Finally, the physician who has conscientious objection should never be obliged to facilitate euthanasia. The Council of State clearly states that this would be contrary to the freedom of conscience of the physician. A referral to LEIF is really not neutral and goes way too far. That is why we are returning to the amendments that we had already tabled in committee to meet them. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that people here will look at the content and not just take the emotions into account. We need to provide patients and doctors with a clear, balanced and legally secure framework so that everyone has the freedom to make choices for end-of-life care in conscience. Finally, I would like to repeat very clearly that my party is not against euthanasia. However, we do believe that this should be done in careful circumstances. We are also in favour of the possibility of declarations of will with an unlimited duration, in addition to those with a limited period of validity. We therefore approved this at the end of the previous legislature. However, the text before us is less balanced and legally incorrect. In legislation that is so delicate and crucial, where it is about life and death, one does not do cherrypicking. We must ensure that it is fully true and that everyone's freedom of choice and conscience is respected. If our amendments are not adopted, we will therefore abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u111	Colleagues, as far as the bill before us today is concerned, I will not extend much, as my colleagues have done, on the amendments that have been introduced or on the work that has been done in committee. Indeed, I believe that they have been well done and have allowed that the bill, which initially, at the time of its tabling, included only the fact that the validity of the advance declarations became indefinite, added two interesting elements, namely the obligation to return a patient who asks for euthanasia if the doctor refuses to practise it and the prohibition of an institutional clause to prevent the practice of euthanasia. Contrary to what has been said here today, I believe that committee work has really enriched this change in the law. As a general practitioner, I often talk about the end of life with my patients. This often happens very late when you are already confronted with a bad diagnosis. We change paradigms with the patient and then we enter a phase where, with him, we will carefully examine his wills. We take the decisions together so that he can have the end of life that is as close as possible to his wills. Sometimes we don't have that time. Sometimes this happens suddenly and we no longer have the opportunity to ask the patient for his wills. This is precisely where the early declaration of euthanasia makes sense. It is then possible to actually practice euthanasia, provided that the patient is suffering from a serious and incurable accidental or pathological condition, provided that he is unconscious and that his condition is irreversible, depending on the current state of science. This helps to avoid tragedies such as the very publicized case of Vincent Lambert in France where the family and relatives have hardened on the patient's wishes. This statement can also be calmed down. Knowing that we will respect your will if you ever fall unconscious is, for many people, important. This statement is still quite unknown. Today, this statement, which must include two witnesses, must be renewed every five years. This is a rather heavy process, for example for older people. In 2018, 30,000 returns expired. Would the will of all these people have changed? Of course not. These are often elderly people, with reduced mobility, to whom this approach seems to be cumbersome. A few months ago we all heard the death of the Flemish wheelchair athlete Marieke "Wielemie" Vervoort. She suffered from progressive tetraplegie and opted for euthanasia at the end of October 2019. She had to renew her declaration of will that she had made in 2008 twice. That declaration of will and the idea that her will was respected gave her the courage, strength and peace of mind to continue for many years. Today, that declaration of will will be indeterminately valid. The declaration of will may also be withdrawn or amended at any time. So let us not make things unnecessarily complex. The withdrawal or adaptation of the declaration of will remains very easy and can be done at any time. That is a great comfort in patients' desire for a dignified end to life. The second change to the law is also important. It states that a healthcare institution cannot prevent any doctor from applying for euthanasia, subject, of course, to the legal conditions. This is very important. These are patients who are incurable ill and whose disease status is irreversible. At some point, those people could end up in the hospital. Often this is not the hospital of your choice, but the nearest one, where family and friends can visit. It is therefore very important that the patient's will be respected, regardless of the care facility where the patient ends up, especially when we hear that certain hospitals require their patients to follow a palliative care course when they ask for euthanasia. It cannot be that people who suffer and wish for a worthy end of life must fight against their will longer. The failure to comply with this will is a serious violation of the rights of the patient. Hospitals do indeed have the right to formulate their own ethical medical policy, but it is not possible for people to deal against their will with, for example, a palliative filter, or to prevent doctors from applying for euthanasia if they wish to do so. The opinion of the Council of State was therefore very clear: the patient's right to self-determination and the doctor's freedom of action must be considered. In order for everyone to have an end of life as close as possible to their choice, we still have a long way to go in Belgium, even if we are on the right track. We need to raise awareness of the possibility of early reporting among the population. We need to invest more in the training of medical personnel, in palliative care services and move towards a legislative framework that allows the patient to reach the end of life as he or she has chosen, while respecting his or her autonomy. By making the validity of the declaration unlimited, by establishing respect for all the institutions of the law on euthanasia, we are taking a step towards respecting the right of the patient and a dignified end of life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank those who have contributed to this proposal. It is a proposal that responds to a real demand from the people. Euthanasia is a theme that leaves no one untouched. This has also been demonstrated in the debates in committee. As has just been mentioned, in 2002 our country after the Netherlands was the second country in the world where euthanasia was regulated by law. In the meantime, we're 18 years away. We therefore consider it necessary to have a thorough debate on this issue. A first step is the proposal before us today, which, among other things, abolishes the limited validity of the declaration of will. In fact, that was a specific question from the Euthanasia evaluation committee, which produces a report every two years and which also asks for the declaration of will to be valid for an indefinite period of time every two years. The period of validity of up to five years has sometimes caused distressing situations in the past. A doctor could not apply euthanasia because the declaration of intent had expired. Parliament approved an amendment last summer, through the law on various provisions of 5 May. This allowed people with a registered declaration of will to decide the period of validity themselves, whether they could opt for a declaration of will of indefinite duration. Three months before the expiry date or at least every 10 years, the patients had to be reminded by that law. However, many people opt for a non-registered declaration of will for all kinds of reasons. Who are we, Mrs Van Peel, to oblige people to register their declaration of will with the municipal administration? Mr Creyelman, you have proposed that registration should be simplified by allowing them, for example, to be applied to the general practitioner. That is actually what an unregistered declaration of will means. This is determined by the general practitioner and is kept there, possibly with a copy in the residential care centre. The problem was that this could not be for an indefinite period. Any so-called negative declaration of will, such as refusing medical treatment as a probe food, can be of indefinite duration today. Honestly, that this is possible for such a will decision, and for others not, I cannot be explained to the people. This proposal eliminates this anomaly. That is why this proposal is an improvement, even compared to the law adopted last year. Moreover, the law of 5 May did not lay down any transitional measures or transitional provisions. This is provided for in the new proposal. Declarations of intent prior to the entry into force of the law are covered by the old rules. From the entry into force of the new law, any new declaration of will or renewal is automatically of indefinite duration. Patients, doctors and other associations are also asking parties and support this proposal. Of course, I would also ask the Minister to use all the means to communicate about these adjustments, so that that is very clear to everyone. In committee, some argued that the law of 5 May provided for a 10-year reminder obligation. They wonder what could be wrong with that. In practice, people are often reminded of their declaration of will today, for example by the general practitioner. General practitioners regularly discuss the declaration of will with their patients. In some cases a ten-year reminder is too short, in others it will be too long. So let us rely on the experts who guide patients and on the patients themselves, who really know how to deal with this sensitive issue. With this new proposal, people with an unregistered declaration of will will get the same security as those with a registered declaration of will. People also think very thoroughly about an important decision such as his or her end of life. The patient's free choice is central to the Open Vld Group. Everyone must decide for themselves what a humane end is for him or her. A declaration of will for an indefinite period shall provide clarity. There can be no forgetting to extend them. Those who change their minds during a certain stage in their life can adapt or withdraw that declaration of intent at any time in a very simple way. I am 45 years old and today my position is that I would wish for euthanasia in certain situations. But I don't know if I want to think about that every year or every five years. Maybe I never want to think about it again. So I think it is only logical that this should be of indefinite duration and that at some point I should be able to think about whether or not I want to change my declaration of intent. In fact, the Council of State confirms that this will guarantee freedom of choice. They literally write that the adjustment is very simple. What I find strange about the opinion is that it is said that there may now be discrimination between people who want a declaration of will of a fixed duration and those who want an indefinite duration. They did not make that remark in the past, when it was not even possible for an indefinite period. Apparently, that discrimination didn't exist at the time. The free choice of the doctor is also important to us. A doctor can never be required to perform euthanasia. What is happening today in practice is that doctors wait a long time to make their refusal to disclose to the patient. That's how they leave it in the dark. With this proposal, we will solve this, because a doctor must now make his decision known to the patient within a reasonable period of time and transfer the file. We think it is even more important that it should now be made clear that institutions cannot come up with a so-called conscience clause. An amendment has been tabled that would allow hospitals or other institutions to ban their doctors and doctors from applying euthanasia. It is quite clear to us that this cannot be done. They are financed by the public authorities and must comply with the legislation. They cannot therefore ban their doctors from applying euthanasia, just as they cannot oblige them to do so, for the sake of clarity. It goes without saying, therefore, that we will not support this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope for broad support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, next month my father will be 88. He's still alive-and-kicking, which, of course, makes us very happy. Just that vividness and his pleasure in life make him want to stay at the wheel himself, as the end approaches. "I've made my own decisions all my life," he says. "If I get incurable sick and suffer, I want to be able to decide for myself," he says. So he's drawn up a declaration of will, duly registered with witnesses, everything. You can't imagine how many times I've heard, "Karin, when those five years are over, you'll tell me, won't you?" The fear is that he could forget it. That fear is very real. Like my father, there are many. I come on the premises very often and I am going to talk about such matters very often. I constantly come across people who are concerned about whether the declaration of will is properly registered, whether it is okay and, above all, whether they will be in time to extend that declaration of will. This lives in our society. There's a great deal of support for this. People want to make their own decisions and withdraw them only if they change their own minds. In the previous legislature, we ourselves tabled a proposal to that effect. That proposal was to draw up a declaration of will, to renew within three years and then to allow it to become infinite in time, unless, of course, they are withdrawn themselves. The sp.a is particularly pleased that it can support this very clear proposal. The fact that this proposal has been sloppy is an unjustified criticism, especially if I compare it with the fast-paced way in which, at the end of the previous legislature, an unclear, vague wording was put away in a larger draft law. Mr de Caluwe has already referred to this. This proposal will come to an end. That is a very good thing. In any case, we will vote for this with conviction. We hope to be able to work together on new, beautiful, ethical proposals in the future. Thank you to the colleagues for their constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me make a very personal point. I hear some of you exclusively associate the right to die in dignity with euthanasia. I'm still uncomfortable hearing you present things in this way. Everyone has the right to die with dignity. Everyone has the right to respect their choices. And every patient, regardless of his or her choice - euthanasia or not - has the right to die in dignity. I now come to this text. Under the previous legislature, we had voted for the text that allowed us both to choose a ten-year validity period for this declaration or an unlimited period of time. This text has never been applied. Some colleagues have explained why, I will not repeat it. Today you are detriguing this work, this law, and imposing an unlimited period of validity, for everyone, regardless of the choices of each other. There are two problems with this text. The first concerns the free choice of each person. As much as I understand that one or the other chooses the indefinite advance declaration, it seems to me important to respect the choice of people who do not want to change their declaration afterwards, but want a limited period of validity in time. We sent this amendment to the Council of State, which validated it. Let me quote the Council of State: "Such a possibility has the advantage of not affecting the right to self-determination of persons who wish to give an indefinite period of validity to their early declaration, whereas persons who are less certain about the long-term evolution of their beliefs about early declaration and who want to oblige themselves to periodically reassess this declaration have this option without having to do any procedure, whatever the type of procedure." We have obviously re-tabled this amendment here in plenary. For us, respecting each person's free choice is to give him or her a complete choice and not to impose an unlimited period of time that he or she should subsequently modify through procedures. We have a second problem. Who decides on a euthanasia for a patient, for example, 80 years of age, who would have made his advance declaration 30, 40, 50 or 60 years before and who would have decided to entrust this responsibility to 1, 2 or 3 people with unlimited validity? What happens if these people have died or are no longer able to talk to the doctor and therefore to decide and assume the trust that the author of the advance declaration had put in their hands? We had discussions in committee and you decided that if the trusted people were no longer able to talk to the doctor, the doctor would decide on his own. It is obviously not to respect the original choice of the person who, having made an advance declaration, had obviously planned to hand this decision over to a person of trust who no longer has the capacity to do so. We have therefore tabled an amendment leaving the choice to the person, in the event that trustworthy persons are no longer able to talk to the doctor or are simply dead, either to designate, in his advance declaration, the doctor as a decision-maker in place of trusted persons, or to expressly state, in the advance declaration, that their declaration is no longer valid. In my view, therefore, the choice of patients and individuals is respected and they are also left with full responsibility at the time of the advance notification because they do not have to be chosen and decided in their place. This is the patient's true respect. Respect for free choice is also that. This amendment is also being resubmitted. It has not been supported in committee, in any case on the arithmetical level, because I have heard that some people still have doubts about it. We'll see what happens today. In any case, what is important for us is to leave the choice to each person, to respect this choice whatever it is, to allow everyone to die in dignity and to choose the accompaniment and end of life he wishes. For all these reasons, I shall abstain, unless these amendments are supported today by an arithmetic majority. In our group, as we have already said, there is ethical freedom in matters of ethics. In doing so, if I have announced my vote and my position, each member of our group will vote in soul and conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am very pleased to be able to support the bill under consideration, which is in line with the 2002 Euthanasia Act, a law that was brought forward by the progressive rainbow government of the time and which confirmed Belgium's place as a pioneering state in the field of ethics. Indeed, this fundamental law has laid down a legal framework that – I would like to remind you – never imposes anything on anyone but, on the other hand, has the merit of placing the patient and the patient's freedom of choice at the heart of the device. A framework that allows patients who request it and are, of course, in legal conditions, under strictly defined medical conditions, namely a medical situation without a way out, constant physical and/or psychological suffering, unbearable and unrepayable, and a serious and incurable accidental or pathological condition, to die in dignity. Since 2002, doctors have been able, at the request of their patients, to make a final act of care and to let them go calmly, peacefully, surrounded by their loved ones and medical staff. Since 2002, the patient can decide to give his last breath by freeing himself from illness and suffering. Since 2002, too, we have seen France and the judicial saga of Vincent Lambert, who unfortunately shook it, which was evoked by one of my colleagues, with some perplexity, but also a certain sadness. Sad to see that some patients, while literally gnawed by the disease, still cannot see their ultimate freedom respected. As a reminder, almost 90% of euthanasia is practised as a result of end-stage cancers. We can therefore be proud to have, in Belgium, a law that humanizes the end of life, which allows patients to re-approve their bodies, their medical decisions and their death. However, almost 18 years after the adoption of this law, we now have the necessary setback to see that the current law can sometimes, in some respects, pose practical difficulties for these patients at the end of their lives. Challenges that the bill intends to respond to with fairness, seriousness and dignity. We have also seen, through the recent sitting trial in Ghent, that doctors need to be more protected as part of their practice, since they are only responding to the ultimate will of their patients. That is why I wanted to thank the authors of this bill from the bottom of my heart. The first major amendment proposed by this text aims to remove the period of validity of the advance declaration, i.e. this form by which the patient still capable and conscious expresses his will to use euthanasia on the day he finds himself unable to make this request (in case of coma, for example) and where he would be in legal conditions to benefit from it. The period of validity of five years has recently been extended to ten years, and several parties have replied to us in committee. Except that in the absence of a royal decree of execution, the period of validity remains finally five years. It continues to be a very cumbersome administrative process, sometimes too cumbersome for the sick, and this has been reiterated by the Council of State in its opinion. As for the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia, it also stressed the anxiogenic nature of the requirement to renew this advance declaration. The sick are afraid to forget this five-year deadline. Patients are also afraid that, over the years, they will no longer be provided with an entourage sufficient to find witnesses and persons of trust, a condition that must be met if the advance declaration is to be valid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u116	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u117	Thank you, Mr President, for doing what is necessary, because it is extremely unpleasant to work under these conditions on such an important subject. I'm going on. Worse still, this requirement makes euthanasia impossible for patients who are now suffering from advanced brain degeneration. Indeed, this degeneration deprives them of a consciousness that is necessary – and it is quite normal – to renew this early declaration. This period of validity should therefore be deleted. However, it should be noted that the advance declaration may at any time be withdrawn or amended, such as a will or advance declaration that relates to the treatment of the patient. This statement, however, is limited in time. To return to our committee work, I heard that the tote law of May 5, 2019 had resolved this issue. It must be noted that this is not the case. As I said, the law of 5 May 2019 did not come into force since the royal decrees of execution were not adopted. That is why the patients, doctors and associations that advocate for the right to die in dignity – and my socialist colleagues have recalled the considerable work that the Association for the Right to Die in Dignity has done for decades – all confirm to us that the only acceptable and respectful solution to the patient's will is to remove the validity of the advance declaration. Indeed, when we are consumed by the disease and ultimately prevent us from living, any administrative simplification is welcome. In this respect, amendments have been tabled in committee by certain parties, following the opinion of the Council of State, and are still being tabled in our House today. One objective is that patients should be able to set a period of validity, if they so wish, limited to their advance notification. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that this would result in several types of early declaration, with the result that the steps to be taken at the end of life would be made ever more complicated. This is not acceptable when it comes to people who are already severely weakened by the disease. To justify this limitation, it was also suggested by some that some patients would ultimately not file an advance report because they fear that, after a few years, they will forget the requirement to renew it and its time-limited nature. Again, this argument does not hold. Indeed, if certain declarations are not filed or renewed, it is precisely because of the administrative burden of their renewal – which the present proposal tends to delete. Finally, it was also argued that the possibility of limiting the declaration in time would allow for equality between patients – between those who would like this limitation in time and others. Forgive me, but this argument still doesn't hold. First, as I said, any patient can, at any time, withdraw his or her advance notification. This is, however, a much simpler administrative declaration than the one intended to renew it. And, secondly, because patients today are not on an equal footing. Indeed, only those who have the strength and the opportunity to renew their early declaration have the chance to see their will to die with respect for dignity. For these reasons, and in order to be able to carry out its approach to the right to die in the most serene dignity possible, this amendment has been rejected in committee and we will also reject it today in plenary. I also heard, in committee and today in Mrs Van Peel's mouth, that we were acting in haste. This is definitely the main argument of the opponents of any progressive progress in ethical matters at the beginning of the legislature. An argument which is all the more stinging - it was recalled by my colleague Sofie Merckx in the case of euthanasia, as well as by Mrs Jiroflée - that it is advanced by representatives of parties who defended this famous law tote of May 5, 2019, which amended the provisions relating to the law on euthanasia just before the dissolution of the chambers without any debate on the very specific question of euthanasia. Double standards, but also bad faith. This debate, thanks to my fellow authors of this proposal, we have finally been able to have it in the Committee on Health. Finally, we were able to explain how this change was essential for patients, especially those who do not dare to complete an advance report precisely because of this renewal obligation. So that today, only 2% of euthanasias are performed on the basis of an advance declaration. The second major amendment of this text is to better regulate conscientious objection by stressing its personal character, but also by providing that the doctor will have a maximum of seven days to make his decision and, in case of refusal to practise euthanasia, a maximum of four days to transmit the patient's file to a colleague who will have to examine his request. Examining his request is not euthanasia as such: there is a great nuance. I would like to point out that this is by no means a revolution, since the ratio legis of this law of 28 May 2002 is fully respected. Indeed, this bill merely clarifies what should go without saying, but unfortunately, in fact, is not being respected. The objection of conscience is by definition personal, unique to a single doctor and the 2002 law offered a fair balance between the physician's therapeutic freedom, freedom of conscience and, moreover, the patient's freedom of choice. However, today, medical institutions – even if they are financed by public money – or nursing homes brandish an alleged conscience clause to prohibit all their employees from practicing euthanasia within them, even if a patient meets all the legal conditions and the attending physician has given his consent. This prohibition, which is sometimes expressed in a veiled or completely assumed way – on a website for example – is perfectly contrary to the doctor's therapeutic freedom. It is also contrary to the patient's right to die in dignity. It cannot be considered that if a patient wishes to be euthanized, he or she has only to choose to go elsewhere. You are perfectly aware that it is not that simple at the end of life. Second, it is not respectful of patients who are already severely weakened by the disease. The choice of an institution at the end of life is very rarely made for ideological reasons. It is most often done by the family for reasons of proximity, convenience or for financial reasons. Fortunately, these practices are a minority. However, they are worrying and therefore deserve our full attention. It is our role as legislator to show solidarity with these patients because they have not been able to see their freedom of choice respected. It is also our role to ensure that all patients are treated equally. It is also our role to avoid what François de Closets described in his book La Dernière Liberté as "died at two speeds". We also observe that some conscientious objectors delay communicating their patient's medical record to another physician, which can have dramatic consequences for the same patient. More often than not, this situation leads to a breakdown of care, but also to an anxiety linked to the search for a new doctor, who is unknown and who is hoped that he will be able to respect his freedom of choice, or rather his freedom of choice of life but also of death. This is a particularly heavy and difficult situation for patients who are already exhausted. For all these reasons, my group will enthusiastically support this bill. Finally, I wanted to clarify one fundamental point: euthanasia will never be an ordinary act. It is an act that will always present a very important emotional burden for the doctor. It is also an act that shows great humanity because it realizes the patient's right to this ultimate freedom to decide how he will make his last breath, putting an end to an incurable disease and suffering that is unbearable. Choosing his death is a freedom, but it is also a right that cannot be hindered, both for administrative and ideological reasons. That is what founded the 2002 law, and that is what will, I hope, form the basis of this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u118	There is a second round of speakers, with Mr De Roover and Mrs Hennuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am now symbolically removing my jacket from the chairman of the group. That has a very obvious reason. We also respect the freedom of the political groups on such matters. I would now like to repeat my group chairman's jacket to say that I was very pleased that, after a very thorough discussion on the subject in our own group, several members of the group have indicated that they will wait for their final vote to be determined, which is sufficient to indicate the openness to the argument and the lack of prejudice they follow. I must admit that, as chairman of the group, I am proud of this attitude. Now I will continue my speech as a Member of Parliament. I'm gonna take a break so we can make things very clear. Since I cannot hide behind group discipline here, I would like to make it quite clear here that my voting behaviour must be interpreted in a certain way. After all, to be honest, mon coeur balance. I will approve the proposal anyway. I will approve it because several speakers have referred to it, and the problem was tackled in a serious way during the previous legislature. Some symbolism has been a driving force for the initiators. A number of speakers have also pointed out that voting behaviour other than approval could not only be accepted, but will also be interpreted as a negative attitude towards freedom in the euthanasia debate as such. I do not wish to allow that suspicion to rest on me in any way. In essence, the freedom of choice and choice of citizens remain intact in the present proposal, although more freedom would be possible. Moreover, the amendments tabled still offer an opportunity to make that improvement. In my opinion, the reluctance of a number of political groups to the amendments tabled by some members of CD&V and of the CDH is very strange, because they are invoking the free choice of citizens, whereas the amendments in question are actually aimed at extending that freedom. I will confine myself to the amendment that led to point 3.1 in the proposal before us in committee. It was our belief that point 3.1 is superfluous, because the provision does not really add anything new compared to the existing situation. That is why we were not in favour of this. When an amendment is tabled to insert something that is actually unnecessary, it is never unwise to consider the justification of the author of that amendment. It's not my place to look others in the head. That amendment shows a certain smell of sneaky decision-making. I am therefore pleased that the proposal was tabled and approved, as it allowed the Council of State to examine the scope of that point 3.1. I am very happy that the Council of State has given an interpretation of that interpretation which, fortunately, contradicts the reading of the colleague of the Flemish Interest. I shall read out two passages in the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. For the sake of clarity, point 3.1 states: "No clause, written or otherwise, may prevent a doctor from applying euthanasia in accordance with the legal conditions'. When I read that sentence, I see the logic. After all, why should an employer be able to hinder an employee in the act according to his or her conscience? However, this passage has brought some commotion to public opinion. From the report of the Council of State, I quote: 'The proposed measure does not imply that the institution loses its freedom to formulate its own policy on euthanasia and medical decisions regarding the end of life and to inform its patients and residents of that policy. Nor does the institution lose its freedom to pursue its own personnel policy for the rest. The proposed measure merely means that the institution may not include in the agreement with the doctor any clause preventing the doctor from applying euthanasia under the legal conditions." A little further, the Council of State says that it considers the text "not disproportionate': "This would be different if the proposed provision meant that care institutions would be obliged to actively follow up on users' euthanasia requests'. The text is proportionate because it does not require care institutions to do so. It is, therefore, because of that would-form that I can not only live with that passage in substance, but also that I am reassured that my yes vote fits in with the interpretation of the Council of State. This is an important point in assessing the scope of legislation. I would therefore like to thank the person who tabled the amendment, however unnecessary it may be, because it has been made clear through the Council of State, which can still be useful in the future. A logic has been followed which began with the treatment of euthanasia legislation by our colleagues at the time, who unanimously followed that same position at that time. We are talking about citizens' rights and freedoms. There are rights and freedoms here of citizens who are patients. There are rights and freedoms here of citizens who are doctors. There are citizens' rights and freedoms here that offer care. It is three times about citizens who have rights and freedoms that we cannot contest. The Council of State even refers to the supreme principles of law. The Council of State also says that these freedoms should, fortunately, not clash with each other in this matter. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will therefore vote in favour of the legislative proposal. I shall, of course, support the amendments I mentioned, because I believe that they represent a significant improvement. However, I will vote in favour within the very clear interpretation given by the Council of State to point 3.1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u120	Colleagues, in May 2002, Belgium was a pioneer in euthanasia. Since then, the law that has been passed allows those who wish to do so to choose a softer death, a determined and dignified end of life. The setting is very strict and balanced but it was far from perfect and suitable. In 17 years, this law has shown many practical limitations that patients, citizens, active associations and doctors have faced and denounced. It needed to be corrected and improved. For example, ecologists have submitted a text to remove the duration of renewal of the early declaration of euthanasia, originally scheduled every 5 years. From now on, the advance declaration will be valid for an unlimited period of time. This protects people from oblivion of the deadline and will be respected, especially since everyone remains free at any time to withdraw or modify his or her declaration without any formality. Our proposal is in the direction of protecting the choice of the citizen. Completing a euthanasia application form is an individual and private choice. Adding a period of validity only increases and unnecessarily hinders this process. It was time to clarify the procedure in the interests of the citizen and the patient. On the other hand, thanks to the amendments introduced by our colleagues in the PS Group, doctors who do not wish to carry out euthanasia will now have a maximum of seven days to inform their patients and will have to direct them towards structures which can usefully advise them. The ecologists are obviously pleased with this progress that is advancing the right to euthanasia. Finally, I will end by saying that this is my first text and my first experience as a parliamentarian. I will retain the richness of the exchanges with colleagues. It was very training and exciting. I would also like to thank my two predecessors Ecolo-Groen, Anne Dedry and Muriel Gerkens, who have carried this text tirelessly for years. I am not very proud to complete this text today. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u121	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u122	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (523/14) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (523/14) The title has been amended by the committee to propose legislation to amend legislation on euthanasia." The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the legislation on euthanasia." The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u123	• 46 • Steven Creyelman cs (523/15) • 47 p.m. Els Van Hoof (523/15) • 48.................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u124	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u125	Sustained: the amendments and Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u126	Article adopted by article: 1 and 4 to 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u128	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 9 January 2020, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 16 January 2020 for a mandate to advise the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 9 January 2020, a call for candidates for a mandate from councillor to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 16 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u129	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 March 2020, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors will hold a hearing with the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 March 2020, the curriculum vitae of candidates will be delivered to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Rekenhof sub-committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u130	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 March 2020 and at the request of the authors, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on External Relations: - motion for a resolution (MM. Gaby Colebunders and Nabil Boukili, Mrs Greet Daems and Messrs. Marco Van Hees and Raoul Hedebouw) on the granting of political asylum to Julian Assange, No 977/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been sent to the Committee on Justice. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 March 2020 and at the request of the proposers, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on External Relations: - motion for a resolution (Mr Gaby Colebunders and Mr Nabil Boukili, Mrs Greet Daems and Mr Marco Van Hees and Mr Raoul Hedebouw) on the granting of political asylum to Julian Assange, No. 977/1. This motion for a resolution was previously sent to the Committee on Justice. In accordance with the opinion of the same Conference of Presidents, and at the request of the authors, I propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities: - Bill (Ms. Eliane Tillieux, Patrick Prévot, Ludivine Dedonder, Frédéric Daerden, Sophie Thémont, Ahmed Laaouej, Laurence Zanchetta and MM. Marc Goblet and Hervé Rigot) amending the Law on Compulsory Health Care Insurance and Co-ordinated Allowances on 14 July 1994, aiming at the full coverage by compulsory health care insurance and allowances for visits and consultations in general medicine, preventive, conservative and repair dental care and psychological and psychotherapeutic care, Nos. 150/1 and 2. This bill had previously been sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. In accordance with the opinion of the same Conference of Presidents and at the request of the proposers, I propose that the following legislative proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities: - legislative proposal (Mrs Eliane Tillieux, Mr Patrick Prévot, Mrs Ludivine Dedonder, Mr Frédéric Daerden, Mrs Sophie Thémont, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mrs Laurence Zanchetta and Mr Marc Goblet and Hervé Rigot) amending the law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, with a view to ensuring that the costs of visits and consultations in general medicine, preventive, protective and remedial dental care as well as psychological and psychotherapeutic care are fully covered by compulsory medical care insurance, Nos. 150/1 and 2. This bill was previously sent to the Committee on Social Affairs, Work and Pensions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u131	The government requested urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law opening provisional appropriations for the months of April, May and June 2020, No. 1052/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Rule 51 of its Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law opening provisional appropriations for the months April, May and June 2020, No. 1052/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u132	Mr President, on behalf of the government, I am indeed asking for urgency. I do not think that a long speech is necessary, but you will agree with me that it is important that we can provide a provisional budget within the necessary time frame. Thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u133	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u134	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. A supplementary list of proposals for consideration has been submitted to the Conference of Presidents. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integral Return Account. The Conference of Presidents was informed of an additional list of proposals for consideration. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integrated Report. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u135	Mr President, we would like to ask for the urgency of our legislative proposal which has now been considered concerning the calculation of the miners' pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u136	We are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1070/1 by Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Kitir, Mr Delizée and Mr Verduyckt on the calculation of the miners' pension. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u137	As President of the Chamber of Limburg, I am touched by the solidarity shown here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u138	Mr President, as a Limburger, I would like to ask a similar question about a legislative proposal on the same subject by Mrs Creemers. That also allows us to deal urgently with this bill on miners' pensions in the committee's womb.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u139	It concerns the bill on the method of calculating the pension supplement of underground miners, No. 1063.1. Can I assume that your question of urgency simply follows from the previous vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this plenary session, our House referred to the absolutely catastrophic situation at the borders of the European Union. Of course, we are all aware of this; this tragedy is obviously due to the ongoing conflict in Syria, particularly in the Idlib enclave, with nearly one million displaced persons, 80 per cent of them women and children, and hundreds of deaths since December. As you know, these are monstrous war crimes committed by Bashar al-Assad's troops but also by Putin's Russian troops. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of calling for urgent action to deal with our motion for a resolution to improve humanitarian aid in Syria. Indeed, you realize that we cannot wait months to vote on this resolution and that there is a real urgency to save lives in Syria. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard Mr Cogolati's request. Does anyone else want to speak on that? [[No.]] Mr Cogonatie therefore called for the urgency of his motion for a resolution on the provision of additional funds for the humanitarian situation in the Idlib region of Syria, No. 1071/1, tabled by himself and Mr De Vriendt. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u142	Mr President, my question is in line with the request made by the two colleagues who have already asked for the urgency of miners' pensions. We have also tabled a legislative proposal to adapt the method of calculating the pension supplement of underground miners. I do not know whether I should ask for the urgency of this matter separately or whether it was linked to the proposals which have already been put forward today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u143	It concerns the bill on the method of calculating the pension supplement of underground miners, No. 1059/1. I propose that this proposal should follow the other two proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u144	So this gets the urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u145	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u147	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (897/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (897/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (950/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (950/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Flemish Interest has repeatedly stressed here that it assesses every bill, every bill, every motion, every amendment, and therefore every resolution before it, on its merits, regardless of who is the initiator or initiator. Yes, energy poverty is a fact in Belgium where no one here denies the level of reality. And yes, this resolution puts the finger on the wound. And yes, in view of this resolution, a very extensive hearing was organised which merely confirmed the substantive legitimacy of this resolution. I should like to congratulate Parliament on the initiative it has already taken during this period of current affairs. Mr van der Straeten has put forward a proposal for a regulation on the structural indexation of funds for the Gas and Electricity Fund. But, ladies and gentlemen, a number of things in this resolution remain perfectly valid. I am thinking only of the problem of the current financing of the social energy policy of the OMCWs. Is this resolution perfect? No. It may not pay sufficient attention or attention to a link with the energy transition and the preventive part of the fund. The debate on whether a new fund should be set up, irrespective of fuel, is also, of course, an open debate. We of Flemish Interest are open to all possible solutions that the invoice, already a tax bill, does not impact today. Our group must put an end to the structural under-financing of the social energy policy of the OMCWs. Mr President, I have heard that there will be an amendment to the provisional twelfths next week. I have many technical questions, but this intervention does not, of course, allow me to deal with them. How are we going to settle this matter through the provisional twelfths? This is a tax measure in relation to VAT legislation. I suppose I'll have more clarity about that in the next few days. I come to the last reason why we support this resolution. This residual government remains somewhat responsible for the implementation of the government agreement of October 2014. I would like to remind colleagues from CD&V, Open Vld, MR but also N-VA of the following passage from the coalition agreement. I quote: 'The social energy funds will be evaluated and if necessary restructured or adapted, and the federal contribution to electricity and natural gas will be revised downwards'. That was in the 2014 coalition agreement. We will certainly approve of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that for an explanation of vote the maximum speaking time is two minutes. I won't activate the chronometer, but I think you've spoken a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me repeat what I said earlier in the debate, because many of you are not here at that time, and that seems to me to be necessary. It is clear that energy insecurity is a worrying reality in this country. It is also clear that this is a fundamental priority for my group. Nevertheless, the text proposed by the PTB is a motion for a resolution. However, we consider that we are already much further. We have already worked on this subject, particularly in cooperation with our colleague, Mrs Tinne Van der Straten, in December. We are therefore engaged in concrete legislative work and we want to continue in this direction. As the PTB motion for a resolution seems outdated, we cannot support it. But I repeat that we will continue to work in favour of Belgians who suffer from energy insecurity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u153	Mr President, this is a very important subject for us too. However, sp.a believes that this is simply not the right parliamentary means and it will not, above all, provide any concrete solution. We believe much more in the legislative proposals that have been tabled on this subject, and we will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u154	Mr. President, everyone wants to justify. I would like to take advantage of a final appeal to all progressive parties. The right-wing parties, you're going to vote against it, it's clear. We have the opportunity, at the level of Parliament... [[Brouhahaha]] We have the opportunity to see an increase in social assistance through this Parliament. The power is still at the level of Parliament. Like there's a resolution... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u155	There is no debate. Everyone makes his or her justification for voting. Mr Hedebouw, for once try not to get into the polemics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u156	Mr President, you are right to call them to order. I feel like they're nervous. Now is the time or never to press, for once, a red button that will allow for a real social policy. I'd like to make one last call. Yes, these people need it. Yes, that resolution would make it possible to pass those decisions. And no, you don't have to postpone... [[Brouhahaha]] But at last, we can still finish! I can't finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u157	Wait a minute. Complete your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u158	Let us be brief, and vote against the proposed rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u159	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u160	Yes 54 Yes Non 29 No. Abstensions 51 Abstentions Total 134 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 822/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 822/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u161	Vote on Amendment No 44 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. (523/15) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (523/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[55]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 45 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (523/15) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (523/15) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u162	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 46 by Steven Creyelman cs on article 3. (523/15) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Steven Creyelman cs to Article 3. (523/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[18]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 47 by Els Van Hoof on article 3. (523/15) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Els Van Hoof to Article 3. (523/15) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 51 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 48 by Els Van Hoof on article 3. (523/15) Vote on Amendment No 48 by Els Van Hoof to Article 3. (523/15) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u163	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u165	Colleagues, I will vote against because I am in favour of freedom. Every patient has the right to ask for euthanasia. That freedom is extremely important to me, but the freedom for the doctor who has to answer this question is equally important. I therefore have a fundamental problem with what is now before me because it is true that the freedom and freedom of conscience of a doctor who is, in his honour and conscience, a medical opinion is that euthanasia is not the appropriate answer to the patient's euthanasia question, and who is then forced to keep that patient on the track of euthanasia. Everyone has the right to ask for euthanasia, but that should not, as far as I am concerned, prejudice the right of a doctor to form and act on his medical judgment. Moreover, the medical judgement of a doctor cannot be separated from his ethical standards either. The distinction made in the text between refusing, on the one hand, on grounds of freedom of conscience and, on the other hand, refusing on a medical basis does not satisfy my concern, because freedom is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u166	Mr President, this legislative proposal initially concerned the extension of the deadline for the declaration of will at the end of life. There is a large majority in the Chamber for this initiative, as we have just heard. What strikes me, however, is the PS amendment, which has nothing fundamentally to do with this enlargement and which seeks to impose restrictions on health care institutions, more specifically on institutions that have a certain vision of euthanasia within the walls of their own organisation. Several care centers, rest homes and hospitals consciously choose not to perform euthanasia today. That is their free choice, just as it is an individual's choice to opt for active cessation of life or a doctor's choice not to allow or apply euthanasia. The bill, as it stands now, creates uncertainty for me and creates unrest, not only for care centres that want to see their beliefs respected within their own walls, but also for staff who specifically choose to work in such an environment and, finally, for those residents who are just looking for an institution that does not perform euthanasia. As a democrat, I have a very great respect for the individual's freedom of choice, so absolutely also for those who opt for active cessation of life, but I do expect the government to show respect for the freedom of choice of doctors, institutions and organisations. This delicate balance is in danger of being unbalanced here. I will never support an attack on philosophical care institutions, for they, like any individual, have the right to respect for their beliefs. It's why I can't approve this bill in all conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u167	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 95 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (523/16) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (523/16) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-05-55-plenair-ip026x.u168	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 12, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 March 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
