ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u1	Mr President, in the Committee on the Interior, I must explain my proposal on the OVG. I would ask that my oral questions be converted into written questions if I do not return to committee in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not ask all my questions, because you have already answered some of them in plenary. Each year, bpost recruits additional temporary workers for the end of the year period. Will some of these employees possibly receive a fixed contract? Bpost aims to achieve specific quality objectives. This means that Bpost undertakes to invest in the infrastructure of its post offices and in the training of its staff in order to provide a quality customer service regarding waiting times and interaction with customers. For example, 80 % to 90 % of all customers do not wait longer than five minutes before they can be served. Will bpost have enough staff in the retail offices during this hectic period? Is there enough room to stack the suits in the small post offices? The sorting centre is overcrowded, one must even stack the packages in empty trucks. Every day new suits come in every post office. It happens that the postmen can't take these with them every day. If those suits aren't scanned at the counter, the problem just shifts. Hopefully there won't be any trouble. CEO Jean-Paul Van Avermaet said on Radio 2 that there will be a stricter approach to postmen who put a postcard in the mailbox without ringing a bell, while the recipient waits for his announced package at home. I have already raised this with Mr Van Avermaet during the hearing, but I did not receive an answer at that time. That's frustrating for the people waiting. How will bpost handle that? The postmen have to bring more suits than they used to. Will this be taken into account in the envisaged timeframe? It's busy at bpost right now, very busy even. We should be proud of our postmen. And yet they're having a hard time. They have to process a record number of packages during this Corona year-end and that has consequences. Madam Secretary, you have made a positive appeal with "Help our postmen." I thought that was very positive. Why not call on the people who have to stay home because of the corona crisis, such as the Ghent taxi company V-tax, to help? It's a win-win situation. There are already so many packages to distribute and then the packages that are at the counter or at the postpoint must be added for the second time. What will be the preferred delivery? As regards the price increase for packets, you have already replied in plenary. However, I do have a few questions about shipping and shipping costs. The customer who wants to send a package online must print a label via the bpost network. Now and then, however, the platform does not work, which means that the customer loses a lot of time. What will bpost do to remedy that? What will happen to the shipping costs of those who have already paid? The last DAD days were not easy for bpost because of COOVID-19 and the unseen volumes. A few days a year bpost tunes its volumes and adapts them to popular leave days and the closing days of banks and public services. In 2020, Bpost decided, without participation, to impose five days' leave on the staff. Madam Secretary, with the DAD days, it was really untapped work. Especially on 6 December, with long queues at the counter. There was chaos everywhere. Is this planned in 2021? The postal staff must have their own leave. Leave may not be imposed. Why is bpost not setting up rest hours instead of leave days? In this way, any staff member can be satisfied. The rest hours could then be taken up instead of the overtime paid for half of the time to the taxes. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u3	Minister, I introduced my questions in early November, but in the meantime we had a number of discussions on the subject in plenary. The questions introduced at the beginning of November reflected my concern about the health situation at the time and its impact on bpost services. The peak in contamination we were then facing could have an impact on the staff and quality of service provided, and workers in the workplace were faced with a historical influx of parcels. My questions must therefore be re-examined in this context of concern. Today, it is a matter of learning from what has happened in recent weeks. What has been the situation and what is the current situation with bpost personnel regarding quarantine and isolation, particularly at the time of the peak of contamination? Have specific enhanced measures been taken in the workplace to limit the spread of the virus? Have these possible measures affected the quality of services rendered to the citizen? On the other hand, has the enhanced framework announced for the management of the end-of-year period been achieved and proved sufficient in view of the increase in the epidemic? Ambitious targets had been announced, but the conditions were quite exceptional and could undermine the service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u4	Mr President, Minister, two weeks ago in plenary we were able to ask you about the acute problem of the package peak that bpost and other courier companies are facing. You gave some concrete answers at that time. Recently I have learned that there are already 4,000 additional staff on the way to getting the packages distributed. Since that plenary session of two weeks ago, you may have more recent figures for us on the evolution of the number of packages to be processed, the deployment of staff and which part of the packages may not be delivered in time. What interests me throughout this story is how bpost as an important actor can embrace e-commerce, which incarnates the shopping of the future for a piece, so that our local merchants can take full advantage of it. In the plenary two weeks ago, you said that bpost will help them to be present on the Internet, to set up a web shop and provide good service. I wonder what progress has been made on the development of initiatives in this area. There is also the question of how we can reconcile the increased traffic with the demands on the viability of our neighbourhoods. Last week you tweeted about the pilot project in Mechelen, where not every package is brought into the street, but delivered in depots, where the recipients can pick up their package. Can you give me more information on that? It seems particularly interesting to me. In my own city, Ghent, that has also become an issue. From the Ghent ships of Economy I understand that no less than 200 vans a day are needed, just to deliver 20,000 packages to the house in the center of Ghent, even though the recipients are not always at home. Those numbers are insane and should definitely be looked at. How can we embrace e-commerce in a way that meets an objective previously set in this committee, namely the provision of sustainable employment, proper remuneration and sound social protection to workers in that sector? When ordering via their smartphone, people do not see how things are going in those megamagazines abroad, where people work 24/7 on the basis of daily contracts and a gross wage of €10.00 per hour. Most workers do not hold on to that work for more than a year. That is not the form of sustainable employment that we are aiming for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u5	Minister, we had the opportunity to address this issue at last Thursday's plenary session. We see an exponential and exceptional increase in the number of postal parcels, linked to a context we know, the second partial confinement and the evolution of habits. The Post Office responded well to this development during the first phase of containment. The approach to the holidays leads to a spectacular increase. I've already recalled the numbers. Before the first confinement, we were 270,000 parcels a day and we had increased to 400,000 parcels. On the eve of my question in plenary, we had reached the figure of 617,000 parcels. Yesterday, to my knowledge, we were at 657,000 Belgian parcels, to which we should also add about 200,000 parcels from China. I don't know if you can confirm this very important flow of parcels from China. Adding the two together, we reach 857,000 parcels. It's never before seen and quite exceptional. You have responded in part on short-term measures. You can come back to this because we will have a rather more important topical debate earlier. In particular, hirings to deal with these deliveries. It comes to my mind that a number of people hired first had a fixed-term contract, but will these contracts be renewed or converted into open-ended contracts? Can you confirm that? For what proportion of these 3,000 workers would there be an indefinite contract? I have also indicated that there is a need to distinguish between the short and the medium-long term. In the short term, it is necessary to ensure that the equipment – vans, distribution centres,... – can absorb this flow. What is the state of affairs while the packages have quadrupled in a few months? Are there any short-term investments in infrastructure to address this situation. So I wanted to know your strategic vision in the face of this evolution of the market that bpost has to grasp, I think. Have there been any consultations with workers' representatives on working conditions? These are not easy. Are there any safeguards to ensure that working conditions, including those for temporary assistance, are satisfactory? In the longer term, what investments are envisaged by bpost to anticipate this exceptional development but which is likely to last? How to position bpost in this expanding parcel market?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u6	Madam Minister, like the previous speakers, I had also taken the floor in plenary, where I explicitly demonstrated that people had too few hands to do the job. That's very much what postal people do. I have seen that there are sometimes two-handed posters on the camionettes, while people are working their way down at the moment. The situation is very serious for the staff and we are only at the beginning of December, there is still a very busy period ahead. Yesterday I made a phone call to someone in Brussels X, wherever you went. The situation there is quite serious, both in terms of working conditions and in terms of materials to ensure that the work can be lightened. There is still work to be done to ensure that people can work in a decent way. I just got off the phone with a couple of people yesterday, two regular postal women, who don't last and are really broken. People are about to give up, they're not gonna see it anymore and they don't think they're gonna last. They have to do up to 1,500 buses and the routes change regularly. Yesterday, a woman told me she does two overtime every day, that's not a bad thing. The situation is very serious. Madam Minister, your policy paper contained a number of hopeful things: you want good working conditions for postal people and you want the service to be good. People are hoping you can do something about that. I expect you to take effective measures to ensure that staff can work in good working conditions against good wage conditions. One of my predecessors spoke about the Amazons and the globe.coms of this world, but the auxiliary mailmen at bpost also have a very low wage. After a survey with the postmen, two major problems emerge: pay, especially for the auxiliary workers, and workload and working conditions. Those are the two major issues that come up most. Madam Secretary, during the first lockdown the advertising rounds at bpost were temporarily stopped. Would it not be an option, even now, in this very busy period, not to pass on the non-essentials? For the workload that would be a serious relief. In addition, we hear that bpost is going to distribute a million free postcards this year. This proposal calls for a lot of reactions from staff, because of course this is a lot of extra work. Do you think it's a good idea that this is happening now? Wouldn't it have been better to wait, because it's about a lot of cards being distributed free of charge via the bpost app? How will you solve the problem of workload? 400 people are employed. Will they get a permanent contract? How will you solve the problem of staff workload? Those people really need more hands to get the packages around. So I come to my second question about the rent of vans at bpost. Due to the crowds at bpost there is a shortage of vans. How many vans does bpost have at your disposal today? Is bpost going to buy or lease extra vans in the next few months? How many vans did bpost rent extra on the private market from early March 2020 to today? Was the offer big enough? Did bpost have enough vans available in every region? Is it a standard practice that rents bpost vans from private players? What are the estimated extra cost of those rented vans? For what term does bpost hire vans? Are there any long-term contracts? Has bpost taken into account the environmental impact of these vans when renting the extra vans? If so, in what way? My third question concerns the concrete situation in Tongeren. There was a strike at Bpost Tongeren because of the excessive workload, the shortage of staff and the difficult working conditions. In the meantime, has a social dialogue between Bpost and the trade unions been launched to solve the specific problems in Tongeren? If so, what are the results? What measures have already been taken on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u7	Madam Secretary, I've been trying to imagine the day record of 660 packages. How many trucks would that be if all the packages were put on a pile? I have come to the conclusion that it is incredibly difficult to imagine that visually. The fact that the 30,000 employees of bpost get those packages to the people every day is an incredible piece of music. We should be grateful and grateful to them for that. As a customer, it seems so easy. One looks for a product on a website, one clicks, pays and one or two days later that package is delivered to the home. However, we do not consider the costs involved. First of all, there are the social costs. A number of colleagues have already referred to the increased workload on staff. Secondly, it is the cost of mobility. In my intervention in response to your policy paper, I also mentioned several times the white vans that we see and drive in our neighbourhoods. Thirdly, there are also the costs of climate change. The costs are not included in the price paid by the customer for the delivery of that package. We do not think enough about this either. It is a debate that we, as policy makers, must have the courage to engage in, and we really must ask ourselves what solutions we want to offer for e-commerce. The e-commerce has conquered our market in great leaps, partly by COVID-19 and partly by the already existing digital evolution. However, how can we green and smarten that e-commerce so that it becomes an added value for each of us? Indeed, the answer is not to sneak down on services. If a company promises service, it must also be delivered. I was therefore very pleased that you responded when bpost suddenly decided not to deliver certain packages to the house, because at that time that promise was there. This does not mean that I do not think we should think about it in the future. At that time, it was important that you, as a minister, gave a certain signal there. My questions relate to the current situation, to which my colleagues have already referred. You said in plenary that additional staff had indeed been recruited. Is that enough at the moment to absorb the peak that is still coming in the run-up to the holidays? I can imagine that the company has not been able to fully prepare itself for the situation of this end-of-year period because COOVID-19 has joined. I hope the company takes lessons from this. Do you know if that's true? Have you talked to them about what they can learn from this? Were there other reasons than too few staff why bpost could not handle the situation or more difficult? Was that part of logistics or infrastructure? If yes, has bpost already thought about how it can remedy these problems? Are there any companies that have filed claims to bpost? Do you have any eyes on that? These are questions about the current situation, but I think it is also very important to look to the future. When discussing your policy paper, I also suggested thinking about a Green Deal for e-commerce. E-commerce is there and doesn't go away anymore, so I think it's important to figure out how bpost can be an active and valid partner in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u8	Madam Minister, I would like to add a few points. The debate was also held in plenary. Mr Vandenbroucke rightly referred to the question of the organisation of e-commerce and the logistics associated with it. I think this is a debate in itself where we can certainly set up a whole tree about the mobility effects, but I would like to focus on the current problem and, more specifically, on the peak that we know now and the question of whether this could have been seen coming. I was surprised when the CEO of bpost stated a few weeks ago that there would be no second peak. That is amazing as the re-flammation of the coronavirus was predicted by the specialists and it was known that a lockdown or a semi-lockdown is the best impulse to drive e-commerce to new record heights. Both on the part of the sellers and the buyers, this has created a huge incentive, especially knowing that the Belgians still bought relatively little online compared to the neighbouring countries. There was another catching-up operation there and the coronavirus provided an extra boost. In addition, things like Black Friday and the December month. All these elements together do it to me, as an outsider and seemingly surprising that a CEO says two months earlier doesn't expect a new peak. Then I'm gonna get the bad guys. This is about the individuals who are getting their package too late, a child who gets his sintering-class gift on 8 December instead of 6 December; also about the SMEs and shops, who may have created a website to sell a number of things in these times; but also the staff, because the postmen are getting a lot of blame to their heads while they are doing everything they can to deliver. This question has just been asked. Is the sender, the shopkeeper who is the customer at bpost entitled to a discount or compensation if deliveries are not made in good time? That's an important question. Mr Buyst spoke just now about compensation for damages. It might be interesting to have a look at that. More structural, apart from the current difficulties, bpost has not always reached the norm in recent years. The delivery of postal items, as agreed day +1 for prior packages up to 10 kilograms, was 92 % in 2016, 90 % in 2017 and 83.5 % in 2018 figures of the BIPT. If we look at these figures, we can ask ourselves whether it has not been declining in recent years and whether the provisions of the management contract are sufficiently strict. When discussing a new management contract, this is a focus to take with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u9	Mr President, Minister, in this crisis, both in the first lockdown and in the second lockdown, local traders are forced to call on bpost to step into e-commerce. They've taken those steps. Bpost is a link between local traders and their customers. In the meantime, a number of measures have been reduced or packages that are not picked up in Decathlon shops will still be delivered at home, for which I would also like to thank you. It may be with five days' delay, but of course it is important for people who are less mobile that they still get their package delivered at home. In today's very difficult times, it is not unusual for creative solutions to be sought. The staff is under a very high workload. The desire to relieve the burden on staff and at the same time to guarantee the best possible service is a point for which customers can understand. After all, the postmen and couriers have worked very hard and are still working very hard, which we must not underestimate, of course. In addition, a reduced service with an increase in the price of 1 euro per package is difficult for me and is contrary to the policy paper which states that the government wants to support local traders. It is a pity that for entrepreneurs who are going through an extra difficult period, these costs will be added. Customers have to wait another five days for a package and packages are sometimes refused. There is a reduced service with a higher price. It's the last thing I'm having a hard time with. Madam Secretary, that is why I have a few questions about this. I know it's about 500 packages a year. By closing the shops many local traders arrive at that quantity of packages. Then why is this additional levy levied? What effect does this levy have on the number of packages sent? The big players were already cited, such as bol.com, Zalando and Amazon. Does that extra charge apply to them, too? Does bpost notice a slight drop in the packages to be delivered after the reopening of the shops or is that not the case? How does bpost want to stimulate our local entrepreneurs and shoppers? Can you confirm that Active Ants, which has already been mentioned here in committee, will also act in Belgium from 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u10	Are there any other requests for speakers from groups that have not yet spoken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u11	Thank you for all the questions in this topical and urgent debate. The peak may be a little behind us, but it remains a topical debate, especially if we want to look at the future and perhaps deal with it in a different way. I try to answer your questions as grouped as possible as they have been asked. I shall begin with Mrs Dewulf's question. Indeed, a number of points in your question are no longer topical. I shall confine myself to what you have said. About the temporarily employed workers, you asked how many of them might be able to obtain a permanent contract. According to the numbers I have, it's about 3,000 people. I cannot confirm that it would be 4,000, Mr Vandenbroucke. Perhaps we should verify that again, but this is the figure I always hear from bpost. Of course, we are still full of temporary recruitment and the end of the year. How many will be accepted with a fixed contract is difficult for me to predict at this time. You will agree with me on that. There must be hundreds of them. I can tell you that in the first wave of the 2,000 people who were recruited temporarily, 650 were recruited. That's about a third. I do not know what it will be now, depending on the evolution of needs, subject to the future. You have also asked a question about the quality objectives and whether there will be sufficient staff in the retail offices during the end of the year. I have figures for this too. Contrary to how it sometimes seems, Bpost has taken a number of preventive measures and provided for a number of things. Everything can be better, we will talk about it later, but there was indeed a plan of action for the end of the year, in the expectation that capacity would increase. More storage capacity and staff are provided in the post offices. The storage space was expanded in 72 post offices. For 25 collection points, more scope was also made available by adapting internal procedures. In particular, the retail offices are concerned with a hundred additional temporary employees for the months of November and December. So that's about the post offices. Of course, a number of technological investments have also been made to improve and speed up procedures and processes. For example, there was investment in portable scanners, to process packages faster. This seems to be a promising application, an app that will be used even further in the future. This is also monitored daily, so that adjustments can be made if necessary. You also mentioned the postmen who wouldn't ring the bell but just leave a card. Bpost gives me the answer that is being worked on. People are encouraged in a positive, sensitising way and clearly reminded of the fact that ringing the bell is always the first thing a postman should do. Customer satisfaction surveys take place and the postmen are also informed about the possible consequences if they do not follow this rule. There are even tickets for the postmen in the make that they can indicate, for example, that the bell does not work or that there is no name at the bell. I would also like to point out that it is very hectic for postmen at this time. As Mrs Vindevoghel rightly pointed out, most people are currently working overtime, which means that they are under very high pressure. Of course, that doesn't mean that they shouldn't ring the bell. Other measures have been taken at bpost to simplify the processes, such as payment apps that can be paid electronically instead of cash. However, cash payments remain possible. You also had a question about the workload at the post office. I would like to go into this a little more extensively, because this issue has also been touched by others. Bpost prepared himself and the CEO told me that the question to the investors and analysts was whether he was prepared, what he expected for the company. His answer was that in the first wave they had expected a growth of more than 50 percent and he did not think to exceed this expectation with the end-of-year peak. This conversation took place on November 4th. By then, we knew there was a second wave coming. Mr Freilich mentioned this in plenary. This was a new element for me. What the CEO said at the time may have been interpreted in a different way than what he meant. However, that is the explanation I have been given. Nor would it seem realistic to me that he would have said on 4 November that there was nothing going on and that they were not expecting a peak. We knew then what was coming and we knew what the end of the year meant. Each year, this peak is expected with the end-of-year period and anticipated. That is why the 1 euro is important in this story. I will come back to that later. So I do not know in all honesty whether the interpretation given to his statement is the right one. A few weeks ago, capacity increased very much, with 3,000 additional staff. We've already talked about that. The cape of 660,000 packages a day was exceeded last Friday. I would remind you of the discussion we had two weeks ago about the 5 percent packages that were not delivered. Then the record was 600,000 packages. More people have indeed been hired, but logistics has not been done. Yesterday I heard that a new sorting centre was opened to accommodate the distribution of that extra capacity to packages that are requested. Bpost tries and is also constantly looking at how they can respond to that demand. This brings us, of course, to a more fundamental question which some have touched and which I shall come back to later, particularly as to whether this is the model that needs to be further developed in the future. Maybe there's another way to do it. I will answer the question about the 1 euro already. Again, it's about contractual customers for over 500 suits a day. It is actually about customers who in principle receive special conditions from bpost for delivery and to whom, in the summer of 2019, one and a half years in advance, as it is always communicated in advance for more than one year, it has been announced that in the end of 2020, 1 euro per pack would be requested from Black Friday, 27 November, until Christmas Day. I would therefore like to call for these two things to be separated: one cannot say that bpost cannot handle it and that it increases the price by 1 euro. It may seem that way, but those cases are to be separated. Even without the overcapacity and the lockdown in which we are still sitting, that 1 euro was a fact. That's a commercial decision of an autonomous commercial company. Remember that the delivery of parcels is not covered by the universal postal service, which we as a government have something to say about. So if a company has to operate in a commercial, competitive market, we must also accept that it makes such decisions and negotiates them with its customers. So I'm not gonna interfere. I've said that a number of times. Other suppliers are doing the same thing and we are not talking about it today. Other suppliers also say that they no longer accept packages because their maximum capacity has been reached. I really want to say again in defence of bpost that the company is trying to fulfil its social mission as a public body as best as possible, with people with only two hands, as you quite rightly said, Mrs Vindevoghel. We can, of course, discuss what we really want. Do we want the company to run completely autonomously as a commercial company? Don't worry, it wouldn't go up to 660 packages a day. In that case, Bpost would simply say to the suppliers that its capacity is exceeded and that it stops there, but Bpost does not. The company is still trying to continue to ensure the provision of services, but it must take certain measures, which we are discussing today. The story of that 5 % is now behind us. Some of you have done the story of packages that are not delivered at home, but in which people are informed that they can pick it up in a Decathlon or another pickup point or post office. That is no longer necessary at the moment, perhaps because the non-essential shops have reopened. Yet we have gone from 600,000 to 660,000 packages, although the stores have been reopened, and yet bpost today manages to deliver everything at home, sometimes with delay. However, that is also the case today with other suppliers, also they sometimes deliver with delay because there is such a large volume of packages. What also brings me to the question of whether they will receive compensation for this. This does not appear to be the case, except when an express delivery is requested. Then it is obvious and by definition that it has to be delivered on express. For other deliveries, bpost's general terms and conditions state that both the supplier or trader and the recipient of the package cannot claim damages and a piece is delivered with delay. I'll just let you know. This is stated in the general terms and conditions of bpost and, moreover, in those of other parcel suppliers, which, of course, are covered against force majeure or situations which can lead to delays. As far as local commerce is concerned, and I see that I'm jumping from one to the next. I apologize for that, but I'll answer all the questions. Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Vandenbroucke said that we should think about e-commerce for the future. Can we continue to expect someone to push a button and expect the package to be at the front door the day after or even the same night? This is unrealistic in the current circumstances and with the huge growth of online sales. Then we get situations where dozens of vans cross the city centre all day with packets from several suppliers. We need to think about this, not today but in the medium term. I am pleased that today I read in the bpost press release that a strategy is being developed for the next five to six years, CONNECT 2026. For those who would not have seen the press release, it is not just about dividend policy, but also about how bpost can register in the future in the entire e-commerce story. They prefer to call it omni-commerce and the aim is to develop Radial's technological know-how in Europe. They also have Active Ants. These are platforms that bpost absolutely wants to develop to give certain retailers, retailers and brands access to digital sales here in Belgium. They really want to register in digital services and e-commerce. They call this omni-commerce because it is much wider than just e-commerce. They also want to deliver the logistics platform and take the deliveries to heart. They also want to make specific efforts for our SMEs. The way they are going to do that is something that we will probably have a lot of debates about in the coming months, but the intention is to offer an alternative to the large platforms. That's also in my policy paper. After all, we are now ordering very easily at the push of a button at these large platforms, without benefiting our own economy. An alternative has already been launched that can be rolled out with support to local traders, with the click&collect system. The shops are open again, so fortunately this will no longer have to be used. However, Bpost is certainly thinking about this and we must be partners in it. The government also considers it important to encourage our own economy, our traders and, of course, our citizens who place orders on bpost. Mrs Dewulf, I would like to return to your question about the DADs. On 20 November 2018, under the 2019-2020 collective agreement, an agreement was reached on the introduction of five days of adapted services or DADs. The aim is to ensure continuity in the distribution of newspapers and packages in those five days, to ensure that their introduction is also voluntary, i.e. that people can choose for themselves, to ensure bpost that no holiday day is imposed and that those five-day periods are based on hours of rest and additional legal leave. Due to the fact that the system is voluntary, it also allows the planning of leave and rest to be optimised. It is also important to mention that the organisation of 2020-2021 is the subject of social consultation with the syndicated organisations at bpost. By the way, I'm gonna be stuck with that tomorrow. I have said from the beginning that I want to work together with the social syndicates in a good dialogue. Of course, I will listen to their concerns and concerns in that interview to see what we can do better or what goes well. Mr Parent, I come back to your question about quarantine and isolation measures for bpost personnel and prevention measures. At the moment, about 100 employees out of a total of 33,000 are in quarantine at different sites across the country. It can therefore be said that the impact on normal operations is limited. bpost constantly follows these figures in order to adapt its organization. The number of sick or quarantined employees is decreasing. That was the situation a few days ago, and I suppose that will follow the curve we have in the country. Since the beginning of the crisis, bpost has invested heavily in preventive means and measures. Thus, access to gel, wipes and disinfectant spray is free everywhere. Disposable and/or reusable gloves and mouth masks are available. Each employee of the company received a set of reusable oral masks. Bpost has developed a concept of covid work in all workplaces so that distancing rules are respected according to established protocols. The emphasis is therefore placed first and foremost on prevention. I hope I've answered your questions. Mr Vandenbroucke, you have asked a number of questions which I have probably already answered. I can't confirm the 4,000 figure. I'm gonna get 3,000. We have talked a number of times about how to make things more liveable. There are more projects, such as the Ecozone project of Mechelen, you know, including in Ghent. By the way, bicycle courier organisations offer help to me via e-mails to realize the model of last mile delivery and to put the famous more ecological parcel delivery on the market. There are many plans at bpost to do so in an environmentally friendly way with electric cars and bicycles. Boxes or lockers were also usually placed within walking distance of busy city centers, where the recipients can pick up their packages, just like at the post offices. So there is a lot of thought about whether to deliver every package to the customer's home. Another figure might be interesting in the discussion about the famous 5 % packages that would no longer be delivered at home: from the customers who received the famous mail, 70 % was willing to pick up their package and sent 30 % an email that was not possible with the request to send the package anyway. Those packages are delivered at home, with a few days delay. It is perhaps an interesting figure, although it is a very limited operation, which is already behind us, of course. You asked about the social conditions for the employees of bpost. Of course, I think that is very important, and I have said that a number of times. During my conversations with bpost, I always put the emphasis on this. I cannot yet give an overall answer, but I am well fed by your comments. However, I can already say the following about Sunday work, which was announced two weeks ago and which will start from 7 February. This is done voluntarily and the employee can count on 150% of normal pay and extra holidays as a number of Sundays have been worked and in consultation with the syndicates. In my view, this is a good example of flexibility, which many people are asking to maintain the competitive position, with respect for social conditions which are not comparable to those of the major competitors in our neighbouring countries, for example. As a competent minister, I would very much like the company to continue along that road. That it can be done better in a number of circumstances, you have given a number of examples of this, I am now trying to find out, especially as regards the auxiliary postman. It is not so easy to calculate this perfectly, because, for example, the premium schemes have to be charged. We really need to compare apples with apples. I'm sensitive to that, so we'll definitely talk about that. I'm gonna keep hammering on that at bpost, too. Mr Delizée, you mentioned the figures of the first wave and recalled how we arrived at 657,000 parcels. You talked about 661,000 parcels last Friday, that is, about 660,000 parcels. We will see what the evolution will be. I'm not aware of the 200,000 packages from China. I have to check, maybe there's still a big delivery to be distributed, but I hope it won't be 200,000 parcels a day. I guess bpost would have already communicated it. In my opinion, the figure of 660,000 parcels you refer to is the total number of parcels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u12	I don't think so. You'll tell me. Maybe it's not in a day. It's delivered in bulk. Maybe it's a special order. I don't know, but if you can give us the information, even then, that would be kind.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u13	I'll check it out. It was a figure I didn't know. You also asked about investments, hiring. I think I answered that. Mrs Vindevoghel, I come to your question about the vans. Mrs Vindevoghel, I will answer your question first. Bpost had no shortage of vans, because the company had rented extra cars in time. There are indeed shortages of vans on the rental market, so other suppliers couldn't get any more, but bpost was forward-looking and ordered well in advance. Currently, bpost has leased over 9,000 vans for a long period of time. They're used for daily distribution. During the first corona wave, from April to June, the company rented 850 additional cars to catch the first peak. After that, that number fell to 300 additional cars. From the beginning of November, with the end of the year peak and the second lockdown in prospect, another 1,400 additional vehicles were leased. With the extra 300 left in the first wave, that makes a total of 1,700 additional vehicles. Now it may be a bit technical, but an additional measure is that the return of long-term leases that were terminated was postponed. As a result, bpost has been able to keep a number of vehicles a bit longer while the replacement cars were already available. That gave us 300 extra cars. All in all, there were 2,000 extra vans. I'm told that's enough. Preparations for this were already made in September, when the end-of-year peak was being prepared, as in fact happens every year. Fortunately, with the very high figures we see today, there have been no deficits. Mr Delizée, you talked about long-term investments. Perhaps we can again address this issue by referring to today's bpost press release. If you have not been able to read it, I invite you to read it. In this communication, bpost states that it will invest in a sustainable long-term profitability. It is a question of economic sustainability, but also of ecological and social sustainability. Anyway, the company really has investment plans for the future. As far as working conditions are concerned, I have already said that I will meet the unions tomorrow and listen to what they have to say to me. Mrs Vindevoghel, you mentioned the two-handed campaign. All due respect for the work these people do. I follow that, of course, also on the social media. We can say here that policy decisions should have been different, but it is those people who have to bear the consequences of this huge increase in capacity every day in the workplace. The testimonies you quoted speak for themselves. You have asked what we can do in the longer term. It was specifically about advertising rounds and free postcards. I'd like to answer that. You will know that advertising printing is a separate product, which can be spread out a little over time, albeit not too much, so that the impact on daily volumes can be spread out a bit. A difference has also been seen between the first and the second wave and in the meantime the click-and-collect system, online sales and instore collection systems have been started, which has meant a big difference in the distribution of advertising printing. Remember that in the first wave the shops were completely closed. The click-and-collect system or the fact that a number of shops provided take-away services means that during the complete closing of the shops less advertising printing was distributed than in the second wave. As far as the postcards are concerned, I think we should consider this as a positive, cool action in itself. I understand that this may be a nuisance, but I do now see this as an action that highlights the social role of bpost as a company, for which there are a number of things that one would like to do extra. I am also thinking of the sintering-class clothing of letterboxes and the like, which also requires more work to be done, but these are positive actions. Those postcards are of course distributed throughout the end of the year. I am told that the impact is very limited at the moment. You say it's about a million tickets. That's when everyone makes effective use of it. In reality, the figures are much lower, which, on top of the 6 million letters a day, represent only a marginal increase in labour. So that's not so bad. I am told that it is not a heavy tax at all, as it may seem in the promotion. In practice, it is less than 1 million and it is actually not that bad. I have already answered the questions about fixed contracts for temporary workers. The same goes for the vans. They asked what happened in Tongeren. Of course, it's a little dated, we've been a month. On 13 November, 15 postmen spontaneously deposited the work for about an hour. Afterwards, there was immediate social consultation with local management. Bpost has informed me that operational measures, including solutions, have been taken as a result of this consultation to strengthen the team. In the meantime, two additional postmen in Tongeren have started working. Following these measures, the postmen have effectively returned to work and there has been no new complaint due to excessive workload. That's the information I got from bpost regarding the incident in Tongeren. Mrs Buyst, you made a number of comments, starting with the higher capacity, which is the subject of this debate, the assessment of bpost, people who had to be recruited or explanations for those logistical problems. I'll give you a summary. Agreements with large customers have already been concluded in the summer of 2019, anticipating the end of the year peak, hence the 1 euro surcharge. Bpost has planned an additional ceremony in the afternoon. The capacity of the Saturday ceremony has also doubled. The Sunday delivery starts from February and is now rolled out with 3,000 additional staff. There is also investment in vehicles. I already said something about the vans. I've been talking about equipment, especially scanners. New sorting rooms are being rented. A completely new triage center has been opened. It's an old center that's been re-activated. Brussels X, for example, is quite large and impressive. Such a center is not set in motion in a few hours. That's what serious surgeries are all about. Bpost follows the numbers every day. That's obvious. In 72 offices and 25 pick-up points extra space is provided. Everything can be better, but bpost has acted as it should to try to address the problems that arise. I've already talked about the damages. We may have an opinion on this, but according to the general terms and conditions at bpost one is not entitled to compensation in the event of a delay or delay. Mr Van den Bergh, you asked a number of questions about the organisation and logistics of e-commerce and how we should see it in the future. That is a subject that goes beyond this debate. The FPS Economy is also working on e-commerce that should fit into the activities of the large platforms, i.e. digital services. This is still the subject of European legislation. This government has expressed the ambition to be with us in this area and to catch up with the backlog that is indeed there. For that, we need a company as a bpost. Bpost has the logistical capabilities. This is what the government, in cooperation with this Parliament, wants to shape in the next management agreement. That, I believe, was your point when you spoke about services. You quoted the figures of the BIPT, I assume correct, but I do not know them by heart and can therefore not confirm your claim. What I do think I know is that bpost achieves the standards of the management agreement, even in the event of a decrease. So I agree with you: if we think it should be better, then we should negotiate on this. Of course, we also have to wait for the answer from Bpost. This is, after all, a very important element in the service that we can expect from a public undertaking. It is therefore indeed an important parameter on which we must negotiate with bpost in the framework of the new management agreement. As you know, we are extending the existing agreement, which expires at the end of this year, for the time being by one year. After all, we want to have a thorough discussion. In the course of next year, we will start negotiations with bpost. I shall then go into Mrs Verhaert's questions in a little more detail. I have already talked about the 1 euro. You are right to note that in my policy paper I call for support for local traders. That 1 euro results from a decision taken in the summer of 2019. You will agree with me that in my policy paper, which I wrote in October 2020, I could only conclude that that decision had already been taken. I suppose the decision for 2020 will also have been taken last summer. Nevertheless, I would like to set up a system with bpost that, when we talk about online sales and e-commerce in Belgium, really benefits local traders. I also want bpost to guide them, for example, in setting up web shops and that kind of logistical support. I understand from my conversations with Bpost that this is just the added value that bpost wants to deliver to the traders. In this way they want to support the platforms and webshops, in addition to the delivery of the packages of course. You said packages would have been denied. That's rejected by bpost. It has been said to me that only packages that do not meet the standard conditions - I do not know what to imagine - may be that weight, volume or packaging may be refused. That's something you can understand. Bpost doesn't refuse packages because of the large capacity that is now available. That has been confirmed in black and white to me. You have asked what conditions bpost imposes on other platforms, but also in reverse which conditions the other parcel suppliers impose on our traders. That is a question that I put to the BIPT after our last debate in plenary itself, including in discussions I have had. I want a comparison of what exists on the market today for our traders in relation to parcel suppliers, to what conditions that is happening and where bpost is located in that comparison. I think this would be an interesting exercise. I apologise for the very detailed answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u14	Thank you for the comprehensive and detailed answer, Madam Secretary. I have indeed left you time to answer all the questions, more time than regulated. I didn't do it by distraction. It is true that the Rules of Procedure limit the speaking time of Members and the ministers who reply. But I appreciate that colleagues have time to explain their point of view and ask their questions, as I also appreciate getting answers – which is not always the case. Having said that, we debated in this committee last week, in the order of business, a request to hold a topical debate on an important subject. We have sometimes had lengthy debates on SNCB, on Infrabel, rightly. Here, it was about bpost. I thought it was worth giving you time to answer. There's no difficulty. However, I am not saying that it will go this way every time. I still have to be reasonable. Sometimes we get a little reminded of order. We're timed. But I still prefer the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. When the customers print a label, there's always a problem with that. If this is to happen more frequently online in the future, this will have to be looked at. I would like to give once again a compliment to all the postal staff, who also give the best of themselves in corona times and who do not always have the right remuneration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. As you pointed out, if the whole logistics sector, under pressure, is currently suffering from the situation, we are only talking about bpost. We must also see this positively, since the political debate and the questions that we are asking ourselves – colleagues have mentioned the various aspects of the problem – can also have a positive influence on the bpost strategy. You have announced a communication on the future of e-commerce. I didn't get to know it, but I'll do it with great interest. I see this as a happy coincidence. So much so that the environmental, social and economic issues we are asking ourselves are reflected in this medium- and long-term strategy! The value of the debate we have held in recent weeks and today is that it allows us to see that the health crisis has only magnified all the issues relating to the development of e-commerce and its environmental and social implications. The situation is not balanced for bpost staff today. It is right that their work should be praised. The exceptional pressure they face is not acceptable in the medium and long term. So we need to find other ways to work. Another important point has also been pointed out by several colleagues: from the economic point of view, we can be pleased that there is a strategy to support local businesses in the use of digitalisation, but also to the logistics which is essential for a change of model. We'll be very keen to find out. So much so that the political debates we have held have had a positive impact on the future! We will follow this file with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. Every time we see you, several thousand extra packages are to be processed every day. I am pleased to hear that bpost is using all possible means, such as extra vans, extra staff and a new distribution centre, to make this strong. I found the following two elements particularly interesting in your answer. Firstly, that such a large proportion of customers are willing to pick up their own package when asked, nevertheless offers a perspective to organise the burden mile delivery differently, without the customer feeling less well treated. Secondly, I note that the ambitions in the CONNECT 2026 project, which we have indeed been able to take note of in the light of the new bpost strategy for the coming years, are not inferior. I think that is very good in economic terms. The aim is more than to compensate for the losses caused by the drop in the mail; it is to be an effective added value for our local traders and to make more work on emission-free logistics for city centres. On the social front too, you have repeated the bar you do not wish to go under. Madam Minister, I hope that one of the months to come we can have a thorough discussion with you and with the people of Bpost on this new strategy. As communicated today, it seems to me to be a promising start in responding to the fundamental problem of the race to the bottom, which we have raised here. I am certainly asking for one of the next few months to go deeper into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u18	Minister, thank you also for your answers. It is realized that the public company bpost is making significant efforts to deal with an exceptional situation. Of course, it will be necessary to continue to make adjustments, to analyse the situation a little backwards, at the beginning of next year, after it has been deconfined, and to see what is the situation in terms of the number of packages. But we feel that there is, on the part of bposts, a willingness to adapt to an evolving situation. I would now like to return to the notion of maximum. Indeed, you started your answer by saying that the peak was perhaps behind us. Let me nuance your remarks because, since last week, there have been a few tens of thousands more parcels and the holidays are still coming. We will see at the end of December or the beginning of next year what the situation is in terms of maximum. We will of course remain vigilant because, as Mr Vandenbroucke has just said, the debate is not ending today. Having said that, I really insist on the question of the investment and the necessary equipment. I am thinking in particular of sorting centres. Had there not been the VOCID-19, we would have already gone to the field to see the situation. I hope we can do this soon. Moreover, bpost has invested abroad. We had a lot of debate on this issue – the reasons, the opportunity, the performance, the results. We also need to invest in Belgium, particularly in our distribution centres. As I said, without wanting to make regionalism, there are immediate and short-term needs and, no doubt, longer-term needs in all regions of the country. I therefore hope that you will be able to give us more information on the future. Finally, if there is a bpost press kit, it falls at a point. Could you send a copy to the secretariat of the committee so that it can be sent to all members who would thus have a supplementary element of reply? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u19	(...) You say: bpost takes care of the service. If we look at other companies, such as PostNL and Amazon, then there are companies that refuse to give packages. In this Parliament, too, there are people who want to privatise it even further. On the other hand, we are for more audiences, not more private ones. It is very important that bpost remains in the hands of the government and that the company does social services. Secondly, the human resources aspect remains problematic. Presumably, I cannot reassure the postmen I spoke to yesterday with the answer given here to improve the workload and working conditions. I don't think that's gonna happen. I had made some suggestions. For example, I had asked whether advertising could not be stopped for a while in order to lighten the work a little. The entire remuneration is also discriminatory. People get different pay for the same job. Auxiliary staff have a lower wage than other contractual staff, even if they do the same work. The people involved see that as a humiliation. They do the same work for much less money and more hours, for which they are not paid for. I really hope that during the consultation with the social partners a solution will be found for the aid workers. They must receive a good wage, because they have done their best in the past period. Hopefully, in the long term, they will actually get a contract for all the efforts that have been made. You say that in the first wave, a third of those involved were offered a contract. I hope this time a larger group gets a contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u20	Madam Secretary, I always notice two things when you pass through our committee. First of all, you take the time to answer our questions. We learn a lot from that. Secondly, my fellow Members have raised a number of issues, which I would also like to highlight myself. Firstly, the sensitisation of the customer. You say that 70% of the customers, if they get the choice, want to come and get their own package. I therefore believe that dialogue with local traders should be established in order to consider how to indicate this choice on their website. Now it is not possible to indicate that it does not matter whether the package arrives a day or two days later. I believe that dialogue with local traders on how this is best organised can certainly be an important basis in the future. Secondly, bpost is an autonomous public undertaking, as you said. It is logical that politics does not intervene in the day-to-day management of the company, but we remain the main shareholder. On the one hand, it is important that we evaluate. It is good that we ask these questions and that you can also give us answers. On the other hand, it is also important for us as representatives of the people and the company to be able to learn from it. When I hear that bpost is indeed proposing some sort of plan, CONNECT 2026, I hear some beautiful things in it. I agree with Mr Vandenbroucke's question in order to discuss this in our committee. After all, I do have a number of questions. The pilot projects you mentioned are usually about the urban context. How will we involve the outskirts in this story? I think we should also dare to debate this question. Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which you always want to give so comprehensively and to take our concerns to the ground. I hope that we will be able to discuss these issues further in the future. After all, we need to think about how we want to deal with e-commerce in our country in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u21	If other colleagues from other groups do not wish to speak on this point, I shall take it that this first topical debate is closed. As far as our work is concerned, we will have the opportunity to come back and discuss it, not later than tomorrow morning, if we so wish or later, to consider what further action the committee would like to take on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, in Lower Over Heembeek, a sub-municipality of Brussels, about 17,000 people live. Since the beginning of this year there is no ATM in the district. In a year, no less than three ATMs have disappeared. Belfius closed the last ATM in December 2019. Meanwhile, many Belgian municipalities have been added where citizens no longer have access to an ATM. There are even municipalities that put in special buses to collect money in a neighbouring municipality. That's an absurd situation. Many older people or people with physical disabilities are the victims of this situation. However, it goes far beyond that. We can't force people to live without cash. During your appointment and in your policy paper, you said that you consider service and accessibility important. PVDA-PTB also thinks that this is very important. What role should the bpost bank take in the distribution of cash in Belgium? Is the distribution of cash via ATMs, in your opinion, a public service or should that be a profitable activity? What is your view on this? According to the management contract with the federal government, bpost must provide a minimum service for the distribution of money in municipalities where no financial institution offers this service. However, this service is strictly limited to the central municipalities. Are you prepared to extend the management contract to all Belgian sub-municipalities instead of just the municipality itself, so that citizens have easy access? The submunicipalities are not now included in the contract. Can you direct bpost bank to find a solution for the inhabitants of Lower Over Heembeek? Can bpost bank provide an ATM outside the minimum obligation under their management agreement? There's quite a few people living there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u23	As Mrs Matz is apparently not connected at the moment (she will be able to join us later), Mrs Thibaut has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u24	Minister, my question is about selfbanking and automatons in post offices. The operator recently presented its redeployment offer, focusing on improving its mobile application and strengthening agency services, including a reinvestment in 400 new selfbank devices, which allow for the recovery of account extracts and transfers. This is good news that will certainly improve customer service. Nevertheless, at the same time, it comes to my mind that bpost would remove some of these devices with the will to keep only one within a radius of 10 kilometers. In its sixth management contract, bpost undertakes to maintain at least 350 ticket distributors in post offices and to guarantee the presence of this equipment in all municipalities where this service is not currently offered by another financial institution. Unfortunately, the management contract does not mention any requirement for geographical coverage of automatons. Minister, do you confirm this bpost intention to review the distribution of automatons in its post offices? Is the geographical criterion – a 10-kilometre radius – discriminatory in your opinion for rural areas that are sparsely populated? Do you confirm to me that the ticket distributors coupled with an automatic will be immune from this restructuring? If such a reform is envisaged, how many automatons would be involved in the province of Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u25	Mr Arens has the floor for his inquiry. In order to do so, he will have more time to speak than other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u26	Madam Minister, I am here in my burger office in the Luxembourg-speaking community of Belgium. If you allow me, Mr President, I will make my inquiry in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u27	Do it, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u28	However, since the interpreters do not have my text translated into French, I will do it in French, rest assured! Minister, bpost intends to remove a large number of machines for making transfers and removing extracts from the account in the province of Luxembourg. Just now, I realized the utility of this device at the post office 50 metres away from my office. The attendant made it clear to me that this device was still being used on a regular basis. The main arguments are that the mobile application will be improved and that the investments will allow the installation of 400 new devices. However, only one of these machines will remain accessible within 10 kilometres. In rural peripheral areas with low population density, this is quite inadequate. Ten kilometers is 15 minutes by car and an hour by bus. Most older people use bpost machines for their banking operations. They don't necessarily have smartphones or computers. They don't necessarily have cars. Indeed, as you know, Madam Minister, the car has become an indispensable tool in our campaigns. Otherwise, we're not anything anymore and we're disconnected from everything. To remove this tool from post offices today, it is to remove a basic service that allows them to maintain their financial independence, their independence. It is therefore unacceptable. Madam Minister, we had a very good debate with you during the discussion of the general policy note and I really had the impression that you understood us. Minister, confirm to me that bpost will leave in place machines to carry out banking operations in Érezée, Tellin, Nassogne, Haut-Fays, Fauvillers, Libin, Herbeumont, Rouvoroy, Léglise, Meix-Devant-Virton, Saint-Léger, Etalle, Tintigny and Attert. Do you confirm that this intention to withdraw them only concerns these devices and that tomorrow we will not be taken away from the bank note machines of the post office which are the only ones to be found in most of our communes? As part of the discussions that will enable the next management contract to be drawn up, will you pay attention to the respect and peculiarity of the rural areas that have been deserted by the other banks? Will you propose the definition of standards so that bpost continues to provide a banking service via automatic devices? [[...]] Will you propose – it is important – that these standards be included in the management contract and made sustainable through structural financing? How much would this funding amount to? Thank you for your answers, and of course I expect positive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u29	Mr Arens, thank you. May I ask if, based on the answers, you intend to table a motion of recommendation? If necessary, it should be sent with a signature to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u30	All this depends on the minister's response. I have already forwarded the motion to the secretariat, but not signed. I'll see what the minister's answer is. It is not to charge her but to support her in her action with bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u31	I insist that the motion be signed electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u32	But I can sign it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u33	We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u34	I didn't know. It was passed on to you by my collaborator.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u35	I am confident that the answers will be good and that you will not need to table a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u36	Madam Minister, to complete this tour of Belgium, after Luxembourg and the Brussels Region, in the province of Liège too, we see this acceleration of the desertification movement of banks and bank note distributors in the communes. At the level of the province of Liège, the district of Verviers is particularly affected. This is in line with previous comments. It can be seen that the problem is more acute in rural areas. Currently, in the province of Liège, there are Spriont, Lierneux, Jalhay, Hamoir and Engis. I know these communes well and some of them are quite dense in terms of population, like Engis for example. The phenomenon is worrying and I understand that the debate takes the form of a topical debate. Moreover, there is the problem of selfbank devices explained previously, with bpost communication in the fall, rather reassuring on these proximity services. It is true that, for the citizen, the gap between positive and engaging communication in relation to proximity and sometimes advertisements to delete selfbank devices – especially at the end of life – is not always understood. In your policy note and in the Vivaldi agreement, there is a clear commitment by the government to the company's management contract, in particular to the maintenance of a high-quality public service, a community network, particularly in rural and more vulnerable areas. Do you confirm the numbers of the deletions of selfbank devices? What is the announced rate of deletion? What are the government's intentions to maintain this type of service and that of bank ticket distributors? Can you ensure that particular attention will be paid in the future to the least accessible areas and the least connected public? What is the state of play with regard to the maintenance of the ATM network in our communes, particularly in view of the acceleration of the closure of banking services? How many municipalities now have a permanently accessible bpost distributor? What is the timing for installing new distributors compared to previous years? Do you have detailed information about these new facilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u37	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank my Luxembourg colleagues, Mr Josy Arens and Mrs Cécile Thibaut, who also asked the Minister about this subject which I have studied at the provincial level since the problem is likely to have a major impact on the rural environment in our region. To come back to my question, minister, for many years we have seen that banks are becoming increasingly disinvested in their services to citizens. Reduction of staff, shorter working hours and the disappearance of automatons are causing grunts among the population. In 2020, in the province of Luxembourg, a person with mobility difficulties, who is not connected and who is not comfortable with new technologies faces serious constraints in accessing banking services. In this context, bpost was still making efforts compared to other banks to ensure a minimum proximity service. However, the information has just fallen: the selfbanking automatons will be completely and simply deleted. In any case this is what is announced for the offices of Érezée, Baillonville, Tellin, Bièvre, Nassogne and Haut-Fays. The Marche-en-Famenne office will also lose an automaton. For South Luxembourg, it's much worse. There will be no more machines in the offices of Fauvillers, Libin, Herbeumont, Rouvroy, Léglise, Meix-devant-Virton, Saint-Léger, Etalle (my commune), Tintigny and Attert which is the commune of my dear Josy Arens college. The municipalities of Virton and Arlon will lose one and two automatons respectively. As my colleagues have pointed out, a margin of 10 kilometres in flight of bird has been calculated. However, in the province of Luxembourg, Belgium's most rural province, 10 kilometres away from the bird flight, while the territory does not have sufficient public mobility, may be of the order of the fighter's route for the inhabitants. So, Madam Minister, have you been aware of the above-mentioned problematic situation in the province of Luxembourg? If so, what is your opinion on the matter? What means do you intend to use to guarantee an accessible bpost offer in the province of Luxembourg, taking into account its rural nature and poor public mobility offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u38	I would say that, even if we were not familiar with the geography of the province of Luxembourg at the beginning of the legislature, we will know the names of most of the Luxembourg villages at the end of the legislature, thanks to our colleagues who intervene and who locate their beautiful province.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u39	Mr President, the Kempen and Luxembourg are often discussed in this committee, even when it comes to the railways. Madam Minister, I would like to add my voice to the questions put by my fellow Members to underline the importance and sensitivity of this issue. The management agreement states that Bpost is committed to providing at least one vending machine in each municipality. When drawing up a new management agreement, we will have to think carefully about how we are going to implement it. Perhaps we should take into account population density and distance; bird flight has been mentioned here several times as a criterion. We need to think this through. It seems as if a banking service is purely commercial and the government should not interfere too much with it. I would like to put that here, by the way. As long as cash money plays an important role in our society, it is important to make effective provision. Especially in rural villages, not only in the south of the country but also in the north of the country, such a bank machine can be of great importance for the survival of an association, a small café without a tray, a small newspaper shop without a tray, a market, where one can often not work with digital means of payment. All this is increasing, but cash money will certainly play an important role for a number of years to come. In order to promote the survival of these last local cafes, markets and local shops, to get people money, to let the occasional passing cyclist who wants to drink a pint on the terrace but has no cash, find a machine, otherwise that is another customer less for that cafe, we need to pay sufficient attention to this, also in the next management agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u40	Mr President, Minister, I, as Kempense, naturally agree with this problem. However, at the beginning of this year the banks, who are also aware of this, joined forces to build together a network of 1,000 bank-neutral ATMs. It is indeed very expensive to maintain and supply ATMs. It's true that our own ATMs are disappearing. The new network, which these banks want to realize, is designed to ensure that 95% of the population has a bank machine available within a 5 km radius. In the cities there will be shorter distances. The new machines will be placed as far as possible outside the bank offices, which is important after 11 p.m. I have the following questions. Will bpost join this network of independent ATMs and will it make its infrastructure available for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u41	If there are no other groups who wish to intervene, I propose, Madam Minister, to try to give us answers, some fifteen minutes, given the number of interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u42	Thank you for all the questions in this debate. I will not follow the order of the questions in full. Mrs Vindevoghel, I think it would be more logical if I answered your question a little further in the story. I will start with Mrs Thibaut's question, which will also apply to other speakers. Mrs Thibaut, thank you for your questions. First of all, I think I have already done so, but I have to repeat the difference between the selfbanks that are managed by bpost bank and the ATMs that are managed by bpost. We know the difference with the selfbanks and the actions we can do there. You know that bpost bank is therefore a separate public limited company of bpost and held equally by bpost and BNP Paribas Fortis. This means that we have more difficulty intervening in bpost bank management than bpost. bpost bank must be treated as a bank, just as the other banks present on the Belgian market, while the ATMs we are talking about, if you like, fall within our competence. You also know that several banks have already decided to remove all of this type of machine in their network because of economic constraints, especially for machines that are less used in parts of the country – that's true – with smaller densities. Once they are at the end of their lives, they are not replaced. This is a practice that many banks use. To give you some information, it must be said that bpost bank has decided to invest in 417 new selfbank machines in the next two years. So there are also investments and new machines installed by bpost bank. This means that in practice, and you have indicated the exceptions, the standards are still being met in our country, especially when compared to those of other countries. With regard to ATMs per bpost itself, it is true that the sixth management contract in Article 10.7 requires a minimum of 350 ticket distributors in post offices and equipment present in all municipalities where this service is no longer offered by another financial institution. If there is still a distributor from another bank, the one from the post office is removed for one left. If the distributor of the other bank is withdrawn, bpost must reinstall a new distributor. Even if it was the third before the withdrawal of all the others, bpost, if there is a municipality without a distributor, must resettle one. It's important. This is reflected in the current management contract. I can add, in response to Mrs Hanus' question on distributors, that when we talk about selfbank devices, that is another subject, which we do not have the competence to deal with, unlike the ticket distributors I have just mentioned. For information purposes, for the province of Luxembourg, there are currently 44 post offices equipped with selfbank (bpost bank) machines, with 48 machines. For this province, 28 offices will keep a selfbank machine. I understand that people also ask themselves questions when the elfbank disappears, but they are machines that belong to bpost bank. I think we agree that it is especially the ticket distributors that are important, for all the reasons that have been mentioned by Mr. Van der Bergh, for example. The machines in the offices of the communes to which you referred in your intervention are rarely used – on average less than 12 operations per day. When you make the evaluation, you can of course say that for these 12 people it is important, but when you look at economic profitability, with the need to renew them, it is a business decision of bpost bank not to renew these machines. For the time being, in offices in the province of Luxembourg, 64% still have their Selfbank machine. This is slightly higher than the country's average of 60 per cent. I still wanted to give you that figure, because you probably feel it's the opposite. But apparently this is not the case with this figure. The use of these machines is lower in the province of Luxembourg than in the rest of the country. On average, 467 customers use one of the Selfbanks, all inclusive, in the province of Luxembourg; in the rest of the country, 760 customers use a Selfbank machine. The rate of use, not only per transaction per day, but by the number of customers using them, is still much lower in the province of Luxembourg. I'll give you the numbers. It is also clear that maintaining these machines is proportionately more expensive than in the rest of the country. My point is not intended to defend bpost practice with regard to Selfbanks. It's just to give you the numbers you received. Mr Arens, by giving you these figures and, above all, by distinguishing between the Selfbank and the ticket distributor, it seems to me that he has also answered your question. Mr Parent, the order of magnitude of the deletion mentioned in your question is correct. The machines will be out of service by December 31, 2020, in a few weeks' time. As part of the management contract obligations, bpost installed ATMs in 40 municipalities where there were no other financial institutions. That's kind of the rest of what I just said. When there are no more distributors, bpost has the obligation to resettle a distributor. Bpost may be present in other municipalities as the sole supplier, but there is no census of the distributors of each institution per municipality. It is also important to know that if the last distributor of a certain bank disappears, bpost will not know if the municipality does not introduce an application because bpost does not evaluate all the municipalities in the country. In the event of an application, bpost has the obligation to resettle a distributor. You asked for the exact number of municipalities that have a permanently accessible distributor. This year, bpost has 524 ticket machines, 121 of which are available 24 hours a day. As regards the timing of the installation of new distributors, it varies according to the situations which sometimes vary greatly in terms of location, investment and installation. To date, nine files are being processed and most are expected to be completed in 2021. I have thus given you some more detailed figures. Mrs Vindevoghel, I would like to answer your question now, but my previous answers already contain elements of the answer to your question. It is true that under the management contract bpost is obliged to provide a banknote distributor in each Belgian municipality if no other financial institution offers one. The question has to come from the city council. After all, bpost is difficult to check in every municipality itself. All in all, there are 562 cities and municipalities all over the country. The submunicipalities are covered by that number of 562. This means that if municipalities ask bpost to place a banknote distributor while there are other vending machines, which is outside the scope of the management contract. I'll be right back. According to the current management contract, Lower-Over-Heembeek is a sub-municipality of the city of Brussels and cannot therefore be separately entitled to that provision in the management contract. Of course, the municipality can always ask the question to place an ATM, but if it does not fall within the management contract, the municipality will have to pay for the costs. Neder-Over-Heembeek may ask bpost to install a vending machine, but the installation and operation will then be charged. In your question, you indicated that the placement of an ATM is a profitable activity. According to the information I have received, that is not true, certainly not for the little used vending machines in certain places of the country. It is, in fact, a service that is offered and which, in my view, is also rightly requested in the management contract. However, it is not a profitable activity but a loss-making activity. That is why the vending machines are removed in many places. In the negotiations for the seventh management agreement, we can indeed review that and ask a number of additional questions. That could be interesting, given the social services we expect from a company like bpost. Mr Van den Bergh, you are asking whether we can work in the management contract with parameters such as distance and population density rather than per municipality, especially if the sub-municipalities of which some are very extensive are also covered. How can we define this in the management agreement, given the importance that you have rightly explained? However, I come to the answer to Mrs Verhaert's question. I also read this morning that a number of banks want to build a network of bank-neutral vending machines. For example, they want to provide 95% of the territory with a vending machine within a 5 kilometer radius. There is a nice service cooperation between banks. I understand that there would be a second one, of which bpost bank itself is part. The SELF banking machines can, of course, be used for cash collection, but there is also much more to be done. Bpost bank is in one of those co-operation agreements, but I have to say that I have just seen that slipping into the media today. You, too, perhaps. Perhaps it is good to take a look at that, because it could indeed provide an answer to many of the concerns that have emerged in this debate. Perhaps we should not therefore impose strict conditions in the management agreement, which will, of course, entail costs, but make use of what the market, which bpost bank is part of, is organizing on its own. There may be cooperation between the public sector aspect of bpost itself and the financial institutions that are reorganising it. This is an initiative which we must certainly encourage. Mr. President, I still have a few minutes left, but I'm gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u43	You have 1 minute 40 seconds left. Thank you very much, minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u44	Madam Minister, we must indeed consider whether we can add criteria to the management agreement. There is the example of Lower Over Heembeek. It's on the outskirts of a big city. How is it possible there's no bank there? A lot of people live there. Shouldn't people be able to use a vending machine there? I hope that it will either be in the management agreement or that there will be another solution, so that everyone can use a vending machine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u45	Minister, I'm sorry, but I'm not really satisfied with your answer. From Ostend to Arlon, we pay the same taxes in Belgium and we are therefore entitled to the same services. The management contract does provide for a discriminatory measure, so that each municipality is equipped with at least one ticket distributor. This measure has a cost, indeed, but I see as hypocrisy the fact that these ticket machines are not coupled with automatons, which would solve the problem. Thus, bpost makes fire from all wood by separating the automatons and the ticket dispensers, for which it is also subsidized. It therefore allows itself to use public money for a well-targeted object by abandoning another. In 44 municipalities in the province of Luxembourg, you are announcing a reduction of almost 50% in the number of selfbank devices. The means of mobility do not allow this. In fact, this will correspond to a radius of 15 or 20 kilometres, so that some people will no longer have access to their transcripts. The usage figures you refer to (467 customers in the province of Luxembourg) do not take into account population density. We cannot compare the incomparable: our province has an extremely low population density. Thus, Fauvillers has only 2,000 inhabitants. So we won't have many customers, but these customers pay their taxes like the others and deserve the same services. I really plead for the next management contract to associate ticket distributors with automatons. I will ask the Minister of Finance about the evolution of this association of banks for complementary services in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you for your wrong answer. My colleague Cécile Thibaut has already given a broad overview of the situation of the various villages and communes in our province of Luxembourg. Today, following your answer, I want to tell the press that Luxembourg has been abandoned by Vivaldi. This is frankly unacceptable! Mr. Chairman, I stand by my motion for a recommendation. Theoretically, it's signed, because I asked for a signed copy to be sent to you. Madam Minister, a Belgian is a Belgian, whether he lives in Ostend, Attert, Etalle or elsewhere. I am really counting on you, because we in rural areas cannot accept the evolution of all these policies which, one after another, are making every effort to empty our villages of their substance. So, as our villages grow, this is again a case that I call unacceptable! We will continue our fight to keep all these aircraft in all our post offices. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, has my signed motion come to you well?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u47	Mr. Arens, I confirm that I have received the motion. I'm not going to read it anymore, since you just did it. The secretariat has received it in its signed version.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u48	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll be brief. You have made a photograph of the current situation by distinguishing the responsibility of each one, the role of bpost and the role of bpost bank. The various interventions highlight the extent to which the next management contract is expected, particularly for rural areas. We need to have a lot of debate on the criteria that will be used. Today, despite the fact that the previous management contract is binding in relation to more rural areas, there are problems that need to be taken into account, particularly in relation to the difficulties of moving to rural areas, etc. All this leads to important, but essential, debates for the quality of service to citizens, regardless of where they live in the territory. We will have indispensable discussions on this issue, in relation to the management contract, in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u49	I would point out that Mr.Parent tabled a simple motion, which I also received with signature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u50	Madam Minister, I thank you for your frank answers to this question, which, as you have seen, was a source of concern to many Members of Parliament in the province of Luxembourg, because we are aware of this issue by the citizens, by the trade union representatives. I think you have indeed done well to highlight the difference between the automatons that are also the subject of a potential disappearance by 2021. I'm talking about these automatons that make it possible to perform certain operations. The difference must be made with the counters that allow bank notes to be withdrawn. In this respect and on the basis of today's discussion, one can highlight a form of multi-speed policy in the bpost head. There is certainly a need to consider how to ensure consistency in this regard. We must work on the solutions provided by bpost bank, the agency in charge of the selfbank part, to support people with computer difficulties so that they continue to benefit from the same services, but according to a different model. I invite you to reflect on the solutions to highlight and bring to the attention of the people who will be harmed by this revision of the automatons. I would already like to inform you that, more specifically for ticket distributors, the municipalities of Hotton and Durbuy have already adopted a communal motion for the maintenance of a banking service at rural level, i.e. at the municipal level. That will also be the case for Chiny. The subject of maintaining banking services will certainly come back to the table. For my part, on this subject and with my colleagues in the Socialist Party, we are currently defending a bill to ensure the free withdrawal of money and to guarantee the presence of sufficient distributors throughout the whole kingdom. The motions adopted in Hotton and Durbuy and tomorrow in Chiny echo this bill which, I think, makes sense given the debate we are conducting today. I hope that you will listen to us to take this bill into consideration when it is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u51	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Josy Arens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Josy Arens and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Public Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post Office, asks the government - to strengthen the concept of public service, especially in peripheral rural areas with low population density; - to maintain all the services offered by bpost in all places, including in rural areas with low population density; - to include in the next management contract which will bind the State to bpost the definition of minimum standards for rural areas so that bpost continues to provide banking services through automatic machines and that this measure is made permanent by structural financing." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Josy Arens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Josy Arens and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Civil Service, Public Enterprises, Telecommunications and Post, asks the government - to strengthen the concept of public services, particularly in peripheral rural areas with low population density; - maintain all services offered by bpost everywhere, including in sparsely populated rural areas; - to include the definition of minimum standards for rural areas in the next management contract between the State and Bpost, so that bpost would continue to guarantee a banking service in those areas by providing vending machines and so that this measure would be maintained through structural financing.' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u52	Mr President, Minister, nice to meet you. I had asked this question in the context of mobility, but it was referred to you because it is also about the telecom providers. It is about an important part of the train connection in the Kempen, a region with some 500,000 inhabitants. A lot of train traffic passes over the section between Herentals and Lier. Anyone who takes that piece as a commuter in the Kempen is a lot of people, because with our saturated E313 and E34 connections we are really on the train already experienced that when they are working there, the internet connection is very often lost. I have already informed your predecessor of the problem because it is an important connection. The comfort on the train and the ability to work there, especially on the longer connections between the Kempen and the cities, are important to get people on the train. Your predecessor replied that he would like to take the problem to heart and look for solutions, but that this was not very easy because of the many trees on the route. The Kempen are therefore a very green region. However, he indicated that alternatives were being worked out. In the meantime, you are now the new competent minister. So I'd like to pick up the question with you. Are you aware of the problem of the lack of Internet connection between Herentals and Lier on the track? What has already been done by you or Proximus to make improvements in this respect? I thank you with the Kempenaars.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u53	Mrs Van Camp, I understand from your question that you have already put them to my predecessor, Philippe De Backer, and I have also understood from the information that I have been concerned about the fact that there are effective technical obstacles due to the very wooded environment, which greatly weakens the radio signal. Of course there is already a weaker signal on the train anyway, so we really need special technical solutions. I'm taking your question as a to-do point in my contacts with Proximus. I have been told that there are indeed technical problems which cannot be resolved immediately. One naturally looks to the future and expects much of a rapid roll-out of 5G technology for these kinds of problems. I think it is also interesting to talk to Minister Gilkinet about a better Wi-Fi connection on important train connections and to look at it in a global approach. However, Proximus does not yet have any practical solutions, not even the installation of additional antennas, because it requires fiberglass or microwave and, of course, electricity, which are difficult to apply to this axis. So I am currently bumping into a number of barriers, but I can promise you that I will urge Proximus to see if there are any intermediate solutions, which may not yet be perfect, pending the arrival of 5G technology, because I certainly see the importance of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u54	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for taking this issue to heart and for calling on society to find solutions, both in the short and in the long term. I am very pleased with that. I had originally addressed the question to the Minister for Mobility and I will certainly do so again and I can also refer to your answer. I look forward to solutions with you and will certainly be asking you about them in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u55	Madam Minister, I can talk about the white areas, with experience this morning, on my journey by train Luxembourg-Brussels. I was stuck with my connection. But let's get back to the heart of the subject. I turn to you, Madam Minister, because for years now the province of Luxembourg has probably been the most affected by the problem of white areas. As a reminder, a white area is an area of the territory that is not served by a given network, particularly by a mobile telephone network or by the Internet. Rural areas have always been neglected by operators, who see no economic interest in them, as they are low-density areas. However, in this well-established second wave of VOCID-19, Luxembourg citizens are, for the most part, forced to remain confined to their homes, most of them having to have a good telephone or internet connection to telework or to keep in touch with their loved ones. During the first wave, I received many messages from citizens of my province who could not have a suitable connection. So they couldn't telework. Fortunately, the government agreement provides for easier access to the Internet in order to give everyone the chance to participate in the digital society. Minister, what are the short-term means for you to implement to enable each teleworker and "tele-student" to pursue their activities fairly, at a time when telework has become the rule? Have you ever made contact with Proximus to respond to this public emergency? If so, do you have a precise record of the so-called "white areas" in the province of Luxembourg, as well as the arrangements for dealing with them during periods of confinement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Hanus, I thank you for this question that was already discussed when I presented my policy note. So I'm going to go back. It is true that at this time of the VOCID-19 crisis, telework and tele-education are extremely important for social contacts. Connectivity is therefore incredibly essential especially in these times. The problem of white areas is a major problem well known to Proximus for example, one of the operators whose data I have of course. I contacted the sector and all the operators to see if they could take any initiatives and which they had already taken. Proximus, for example, has taken several commercial initiatives such as removing download limits, and for tele-students, free wifi access codes in schools. Proximus has made an effort to demonstrate the social role expected of a public enterprise. The problem of white areas, especially in the province of Luxembourg, is known. The IBPT drew up the list of white areas in July 2019. The national coverage of the Proximus VDSL network now reaches more than 95% of households, which is a high percentage in the European Union, where we have the second largest coverage. I still want to stress that. Nevertheless, Proximus continues to expand its VDSL coverage in the province of Luxembourg as well. At the beginning of this year, Proximus deployed VDSL in many Luxembourg municipalities such as Houffalize, Attert, Tintigny, Rouuvroy, Durbuy, Saint-Hubert and others. On the other hand, the VDSL requires that fiber optics be available up to the street cabinet, which is called "Fiber to the curb" (FTTC). White areas are often isolated villages or more dispersed residential areas so that fibre optics must be installed over long distances, which is costly due to excavation work. This is why the installation of VDSL in white areas using the traditional method, where fibre optics are laid underground, is often not economically viable. Proximus is therefore looking for innovative solutions to offer an efficient internet service. Three solutions are under consideration, but I will not detail them, because I have already mentioned them. Firstly, it is the use of aerial fibre optics, deposited on poles of electricity distributors, in order to significantly reduce costs. Secondly, we must mention the Tessares MP TCP solution – if you want, I can give you the technical details – which is to add to the flow rate obtained via the DSL fixed line a flow rate captured by the 4G mobile network. It is therefore a kind of hybrid solution. The customer thus benefits for its fixed internet connection from the combined rates of the fixed line and the mobile connection. This is done by connecting a 4G modem to the client's Bbox. Third, the street cab can be fed by a microwave beam instead of an optical fibre on part of the journey. Four such projects are already operational in the province of Luxembourg – one in Bouillon, two in Houffalize and one in Durbuy – allowing residents to access high-speed Internet and HD-quality digital television. As I have just explained, since the beginning of the year, Proximus has deployed VDSL in several municipalities and is continuing its deployment projects in several municipalities, including in the province of Luxembourg. I hope that some of this information will have been useful to you. Of course, we continue to follow closely the problems in the white areas and to put them on the agenda of our discussions with Proximus. You can believe me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for the technical details you have given us about possible solutions, including in rural areas, which concern white areas in general. That said, the discussions in this regard are of the same order as those we have had on rail mobility and automation. Economic performance in rural areas is lower than elsewhere. We have to mourn this type of assumption, otherwise we risk seeing the public services desert this environment. In any event, I thank you for the elements of your response. I'll relay them to the people who arrested me. But I repeat that the rural environment must be given special attention in all the public service missions that fall under your jurisdiction. I will conclude by thanking you also for your enthusiastic response to the collaboration with Proximus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u58	Minister, I would like to speak to the Post Office Board of Directors. It is my responsibility that no French-speaking person would sit there. My question is simple: have you found a solution for us to find a Francophone on the bpost board of directors tomorrow? I'm not going to ask for a luxumineophone. Next time, I'll ask you for a francophone, a luxumugeophone and a germanophone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u59	Mr Arens, I want to start by apologizing if you did not like my previous answer in the other debate. I hope this one will suit you more. When we talk about bpost's executive committee, we have to distinguish between the executive committee and the executive committee. These are two different organs. Under the 1991 Act, there is a requirement for linguistic parity on the Executive Committee. There is no legal obligation for the Executive Committee where there is currently no linguistic parity. The management committee, which represents bpost in the negotiations on the management contract, for example, consists of the CEO, the staff director and the director "performance and pricing" of the company, who has been appointed by the board of directors and who is the Francophone linguistic role. So, actually, there's only three people. There is a need for a 1-2 proportion under the law. The Executive Committee is another structure. It is an organ at the group level. The CEO determines the operational management of the group. This is reflected in the Corporate Governance Charter. bpost has communicated to me that I really want to strengthen this group of the Executive Committee, taking into account the diversity required of the company in relation to the nature of its activities, and I can only congratulate them. I hope this answer will suit you, Mr Arens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u60	Minister, thank you for that answer. If I understand correctly, this executive committee will have more members than the three we know today, precisely to have representatives of each linguistic role. Is that correct, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u61	Mr Arens, the steering committee is made up of three people. As for the Executive Committee, it currently has eight people and does not take into account linguistic parity, as there is no legal need as opposed to the Executive Committee. The latter has two Dutch-speaking and one French-speaking. I don't know exactly what people you're referring to in your question. I can simply tell you that, for the Executive Committee, there is no legal obligation. There are three Dutch speakers who will be pensioned in the coming years and bpost has indicated to me that I intend to look a little more at linguistic balance, also in this body.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u62	Mr. Chairman, I thank the Minister for this clarification. I will, of course, follow the evolution of these various committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u63	Mr President, Minister, this question is a follow-up to the discussion of your policy paper. You said then that Proximus had announced that he would maintain his ambition to increase the roll-out of fiberglass. By 2028, Proximus will cover as much as 70% of the country with fiberglass. You reminded us that at the moment there is only 6 or 7 % covered, so that roll-out will be another piece of music. In this respect, I think it is important that Proximus is not only on that track. Also utility company Fluvius ventures into that field. In 2018, Fluvius already went to sea with Orange as part of a pilot project, including Genk, and now Fluvius is talking to Telenet. In an article published in the summer, we could read that Proximus is concerned, considering the immense investment. In response to the previous question, you have already said how expensive it is to roll out fiberglass. So the question arises as to how far the various projects can be coordinated and we can connect homes more quickly. Madam Secretary, what role can the regulator play to mediate between the two parties? Did you have any conversations with Proximus on this subject? What was the tone of those conversations? Did you have any conversations about that with Fluvius or Telenet? What is your position on this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, first of all I would like to draw attention to European legislation, which guarantees freedom to roll out networks on the one hand and to promote competition on the other. This is a European objective, both in terms of infrastructure and investment. In our country, we have the BIPT, you know, which should help to pursue certain objectives set out in the European Code, such as promoting connectivity, access to high-capacity networks and promoting competition in the provision of electronic communications networks. In this respect, the BIPT encourages the roll-out of fibre, by any party, as well as the possible sustainable competition between such networks in order to reduce the price for consumers. Operators are free to cooperate in this area or not, provided that the provisions of competition law and the regulatory obligations of the undertakings concerned are complied with. I would stress that because this might be an evolution in the context of your question. On the other hand, it is not up to the regulator to speak for or against cooperation between operators, as competition can also speed up roll-out. The regulator can determine and must ensure that the rules are respected, but cannot speak out for or against certain new players in this field. I have already said that the regulatory aspect of BIPT does not fall within my competence, but falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for Digitisation Michel. Of course, we work very closely together. The BIPT is a fully independent institution with regard to its regulator mandate. As for your second question about Proximus, I have already had a number of meetings with Proximus and the other telecom players. We sometimes talk about the roll-out of fiber as this is a project that will determine the digital future of our country and play a crucial role in the revival after the covid crisis. Proximus announced exactly four years ago that it would make a billion-dollar investment to roll out the fiber network throughout Belgium. Earlier this year, the recently appointed CEO decided to accelerate and expand this thanks to partnerships with Eurofiber in Wallonia and DELTA Fiber in Flanders. As a result, 4.2 million connections of homes and businesses to the fiber network can be achieved, with a coverage of approximately 70%. We have already discussed the remaining 30% in previous debates. Proximus is currently the only service provider in Belgium that has explicitly committed itself to roll out in Belgium. It also becomes an open network, which means that it can be shared in theory with others. As a minister, I will ensure that these investments are carried out effectively. Of course, the regulator will also monitor this, but you will understand that the BIPT cannot or cannot comment on it for reasons of confidentiality and business secrecy. I myself do not intervene in the regulatory discussions because that is a task for the regulator. There is both a federal and a regional telecom regulator and the latter is also responsible for energy distribution. You mentioned Fluvius in that connection. They will have to work together to ensure that a risk of cross-subsidisation of the energy distribution market under the monopoly is excluded in advance to the fiber market. That is the crucial sentence in my answer. This is in the interest of both the energy market, where only the costs associated with distribution can be passed on to the customer, and the fiber market, where cross-subsidies could indeed pose a risk to competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u65	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I'm gonna have to let it settle a little bit. You have raised a number of important issues. As it seemed in the glass fibre empire, it seems to me particularly strange that two glass fibres would be placed next to each other to the same point. So there is indeed consultation between the telecom players. The fact that the market principle is also being monitored is logical, because the only objective must be what you mentioned in the discussion of your policy paper. The digital connection of families has become a basic need, especially during the covid pandemic, but it will become much more in the future. So all the bits will help. I'll follow it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u66	Madam Secretary, bpost is doing well. The numbers look good. The quarterly profit has increased by as much as 80%. That is not bad, thanks to the hard work of the many staff. That would be about 8,000 euros per employee. That's quite an achievement, isn't it? I have repeatedly pointed out that wages at bpost are not so high. Do you intend to do something for the staff, given the good profits? What is your position on that? Is there going to be a profit participation for the staff? Today, Mr Van Avermaet says in the press that 30% to 50% of the profits will be distributed to shareholders. Last year that share was much higher: then it was over 80%. Investors will probably not have been so satisfied with that news: immediately the price took a dip compared to previous years. What does bpost intend to do with the distribution of dividends? Will this also benefit part of the staff? Will investment also be made in new warehouses and in better equipment for employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u67	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, as regards dividend policy, and you have, of course, seen the communication that has taken place today, it is important for me to take long-term sustainability into account for the company and its employees. I also expect the company to come forward with such proposals, and that is what happened today. If we have heard the performance of bpost, I think that will meet that. It is also important to involve and respect the social dialogue within the company. This consultation will enable the various partners to find balanced solutions, both for the company in terms of investment and wage policy. We have talked about this a number of times now. I have also told you that this is an important aspect of the social sustainability that this company needs to showcase. Let me give you the example that has already been mentioned, the consultation that has been taking place around Sunday work on a voluntary basis, with a compensation of 150 percent and also with additional compensation days and an agreement supported by all the social partners. I hope to believe and hope that this company will be able to fulfil both its economic and its environmental and social sustainability, the three pillars I have mentioned a number of times. Your second question follows that in detail. The company is autonomous, but we are the main shareholder or majority shareholder. We do want to listen to the strategy that the company wants to implement. It has been decided, as you know, not to pay a dividend for 2020 and 2021, but to reinvest it in the company. This should also benefit workers. However, with regard to the dividend policy itself, you have indicated that there is now a change, i.e. 85% of the net profit under the Belgian accounting system GAAP, the Belgian GAAP. It's a very generous benefit policy. They would like to move to a more internationally used system, namely the IFRS system or International Financing Reporting Standards, allowing international investors or foreign investors to make more parallel with other companies. This is an international standard which is used everywhere, but with a reduction in the benefit to 30% to 50% of net profit. That is a conscious choice, which wants to transform the dividend share into a kind of growth share in the long term. This should ensure the economic sustainability of the company in the future. The interim dividend payment will be abolished. I informed you that no dividends will be paid in 2021. The next dividend will therefore be paid at the General Meeting of May 2022. An important question that you have asked is what will return to the workers? As you will be aware, according to the 1991 law on public undertakings, 5% of profits will have to return to employees. That percentage is guaranteed and has nothing to do with whether or not a dividend is paid. In any case, therefore, 5% of the profits realised must go to the employees. This is laid down by law as a non-recurrent bonus based on collective agreement No. 90. It is paid each year in the month of May, following the previous year. The amount of that 5% therefore depends on the company's profits and is therefore completely independent of the dividend policy followed in this respect. I hope that I have thus provided a number of elements which can serve as an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u68	Madam Minister, we believe that most of this should go back to the company and the workers and ensure that there is good material for the workers who work there. There must also be attention for the customers. There have been a number of discussions here today about the provision of services, for example with regard to counters and ATMs. The service is also very important to us. This combination, providing staff and providing a good service, is very important to us. We hope that the money will not be used for foreign investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u69	Madam Secretary, in mid-October 2020 Radial, an American subsidiary of bpost, was the victim of a cyber attack. It was about ransomware. In doing so, hackers ask for a sum of money to re-release business systems. Bpost took over Radial in 2017 for 700 million euros. During the third quarter of 2020 Radial was able to place 3 million euros of profit on the table. Radial's financial goal is an annual profit of 100 million by 2022. That goal seems impossible at the moment. How long did Radial have to stop his activities because of the cyberattack? In the event of an attack with ransomware, hackers are always asking for an amount. How much ransom did they ask for? Did Radial answer the hackers' question? Did Radial pay money? Did the hackers steal data from customers or users? Sensitive company information stolen? Is Bpost-CEO Van Avermaet going to look at the situation on the spot in the United States? Will he check the situation and the damage suffered on the spot? Can you estimate the financial damage caused by this attack? Is bpost sufficiently protected against cyber attacks? Does bpost employ enough IT staff to avert such attacks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u70	Mrs. Vindevoghel, I cannot answer all your questions. There is an investigation going on and a number of elements to which you are asking cannot be made public at the moment. I didn't get any information on that either. On October 15, a ransomware attack took place on Radial North America. Immediately after that attack, Radial disabled all his systems to prevent financial and technical damage and to be able to safely restart the systems afterwards. As a result of the switch-off, normal activities have ceased, while payment processing systems have not been affected. It is therefore a question of the fulfillment activities, but not of financial transactions. There was no effect on the latter. Shortly after that attack, Radial was fully functional again and has been able to fully restart the so-called fulfillment activities. Bpost is insured. That insurance covers the loss of activities resulting from cyber attacks. Radial is now back to normal and effectively manages the end-of-year peak with additional resources and capabilities, i.e. with a fully normalized functioning, thanks to local management measures. Those measures are effective and therefore it has been considered that no on-the-spot visit is necessary at the moment. That's the information I got. Bpost also assures me that Radial and bpost as a whole are constantly working on improving their security systems and resisting the threat of cyber attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u71	Thank you for the information. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u72	Mr President, Minister, Proximus also published strong quarterly figures on 30 October. Proximus has been able to attract both more telephony and internet customers over the past three months. For example, there was also an increase in turnover on the home market. More striking, of course, is the large fall in staff costs. Let me quote from the financial results: "Proximus reduced its costs on the home market by 2.6 % in the third quarter, thanks to lower staff costs (min 4.0 % on an annual basis). Proximus thus reaped the benefits of sustained cost savings throughout the company and increased productivity." As a result, Proximus' profits have increased. In other words, the good results of Proximus are due to staff savings and productivity gains. COVID-19 also reduced operating costs, including through homework. Proximus reiterates its intention to pay an annual gross dividend of EUR 1.20 per share on the 2020, 2021 and 2022 results as a lower limit. Madam Secretary, how many employees does Proximus have today and how many were there on 1 September 2019? How many Proximus employees finally left due to the major restructuring in 2019? How many new employees, with new profiles, were recruited between 1 September 2019 and today? Proximus can now also enjoy the corona crisis. Many people work from home and, for example, lessons had to be taken through distance learning. With which social projects does the public company Proximus allow those additional profits, recorded during the corona crisis, to flow back to society? What initiatives are under way in this respect? Will staff be able to participate in profits, as provided for by law? Will that profit participation apply to all Proximus staff? How do you feel about Proximus' dividend policy? Finally, is it true that Proximus is looking for a new location? The Proximus Tower is entirely owned by Proximus. What's the value of those Proximus towers? How's that gonna go?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, you asked a lot of questions. I would kindly suggest that if you have a lot of questions about figures, you ask the question in writing rather than orally. I will now also give some figures and I hope that I will not make any mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u74	You can also refer to a table which can be distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u75	You asked about the number of employees. On 30 September 2019 Proximus provided 13,000 full-time equivalents. On 30 October 2020 it was 11.310. The social plan Fit for Purpose left 1,359 full-time equivalents, 98.6 % of which on a voluntary basis, Proximus tells me. Between the two dates you spoke of, 1 September 2019 and 31 October 2020, a total of 661 additional workers were recruited. As far as Proximus's social commitment is concerned, these are of course difficult times, but we have asked what measures the company is taking with regard to more vulnerable people. These include internet connectivity, download restrictions and free access. I have talked about this a number of times and will not repeat it now. You also asked questions about the profit participation. As with bpost, according to the same 1991 law, 5% of the profits are distributed to staff at Proximus. Proximus does that very neatly. As regards dividend policy, Proximus announced a reduction in the dividend in February 2020. While in recent years this was 1.50 euros per share, it was reduced to 1.20 euros. It has also clarified the financial markets by providing that dividend of EUR 1,20 per share for the years 2021 and 2022. The results of the 3rd quarter allow the company to confirm the prospects. I understand the reduction compared to 2019, given the investments in fibre that the company has to make and that we have already talked about. With regard to the Proximus Towers, Proximus announced that it had set up a multi-annual programme for the workplace. A consequence of the corona crisis is that a lot of people work at home and they intend to stay home after the crisis to a large extent. The towers are built for 6,000 employees. At the moment there are 100 to 200 employees at work. Of course, these are exceptional figures, which will rise a bit after the corona crisis. However, Proximus considered that the company no longer needs to accommodate 6,000 employees. The company is therefore looking for other places in Brussels that could form a smaller and greener Proximus campus, tailored to cooperation and to formal and informal contacts. I understand that it is the intention to stay in Brussels, albeit not in the towers. This could also bring environmental and transport benefits. It is important to mention that no decision has yet been taken and all options, for example the renovation of the current towers, remain open. I have been officially informed of this. As you rightly note, the Proximus Towers are 100% owned by Proximus. The news that the company was leaving is therefore not yet a final decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u76	Madam Minister, it feels a little harsh that so many workers have been made redundant with the whole restructuring, after which new people were recruited, who are given worse status, while the company is profitable. So there is also a big change in the statutes at Proximus. I have already indicated that some workers really do not have a good statute. I really hope that the fact that the company is doing well also radiates to the employees. I had also made a proposal on the basic duty, on request from a number of organisations. Everyone should be entitled to the Internet. I hope that the company, which is doing well now, can be encouraged to develop such initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u77	Madam Secretary, we all know that Corona has accelerated digitalisation in our society. We zoom, facetimen and whatsap very much. Classic interviews are also replaced by digital versions. Also in education, digital life can no longer be thought away. Corona puts a magnifying glass on the digital divide of people in poverty. According to the latest barometer on digital inclusion of the King Baudouin Foundation, 10% of families have no internet at home. For low-income households, 3 out of 10 have no internet connection. Often they do have mobile internet on the smartphone, but that is not enough to fully participate in a digital society. Telenet is therefore working with the OCMWs and social organisations on an internet subscription offered for 5 euros per month to those vulnerable families, called Telenet Essential Internet. That guarantees there'll be Wi-Fi in the living room. Of course, this Wi-Fi has a limited speed, which is sufficient to do homework on platforms or to look for work. During the lockdown, Proximus has already made its internet available to disadvantaged families. Through the OCMW they can get a code to use the Internet of Proximus. I come to my question, Madam Secretary. How does Proximus intend to reduce the digital gap for families in poverty? Does Proximus have any concrete ideas for this? Will Proximus take steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u78	Thank you for your question, Mrs Verhaert. Proximus is indeed free of charge and I stress free of charge Wi-Fi codes for students, students and unemployed people in training who do not have the Internet at home. That's good. Proximus has also taken a number of additional measures at the beginning of the second wave. Proximus has offered specific conditions to healthcare workers, including additional mobile data. The latest figures show that 12,500 health professionals have addressed this today. This is a good signal from Proximus, which has also taken measures for the SME sector and the catering industry, for example a temporary suspension or relief of the invoice. Proximus also looks at the possible support with the cultural sector. There are also projects with different broadcasters to support the cultural sector through Proximus. For me, these measures indicate that Proximus really takes his social role and social responsibility seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u79	Those are indeed a great deal of commitment, Madam Secretary. Perhaps further steps could be taken for the disadvantaged families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u80	Madam Secretary, it was reported in the press that bpost's website has had a major privacy and security problem for some time. That's what exposed the VRT editorial. One could find not only the data of his own package that was on the way, but also that of some others. Thus one could see the recipient, the product and the code and it was possible to pick up a package that was intended for someone else at a postpoint or a parcel machine. This story came out thanks to the VRT, which was tipped off by an ICT guy who noticed the security problem while he was looking up his own shipment. I fear that people with bad intentions will have discovered that safety leak, which is why some questions. How long has the safety leak occurred on the bpost website? Who's responsible for the problem? Are the bpost-website and the bpost-applications created in-house or via outsourcing? Has bpost received complaints from customers whose packages were stolen by the security leak? If so, how much and will bpost compensate the customers for the damage suffered? What should customers do if they notice that their package has already been picked up by someone else?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u81	Mrs Vindevoghel, it is true that bpost was just over a week ago informed of the problem with regard to the Track & Trace system. By entering targeted searches on the website it was indeed possible to find a trace of certain packages sent to termination points. It is not clear from when exactly this problem occurred, but as soon as Bpost was informed of this possibility, measures were taken immediately to make this impossible. It is important to note that to date bpost has not received any complaints or information from customers showing that the leak would have been used in any way for malicious purposes. Bpost customers can always contact the company and customer service, either by telephone or via the website. The website also answers the most frequently asked questions about the packages of the customers. Bpost itself is responsible for its website and the applications associated with it. It is true that the underlying software can be outsourced, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u82	Mr President, Minister, we have already talked about the vans that drive everywhere. I don't know if there's anyone here who knew the mail train. The problem of delayed or not delivered packages at bpost is widely known. Direct intervention in the operational functioning of bpost is therefore necessary to ensure the service for the customers, but also to make the working conditions of the employees of bpost more bearable. After all, they are under very heavy pressure today. We propose to you and Bpost that the cooperation between Bpost and SNCB, which was terminated in 2003, be restarted by the reintroducing of the postal train. After the night train also the mail train should have another chance. We can hit two birds with one stone: fewer trucks on the road and more trains on the tracks. This is an ecological and social idea. What do you think of this idea? Will you consult with Minister for Mobility Gilkinet on this and consider the possibilities for further development? There used to be a lot of sorting centers close to a station. I do not know if there are many of them now, and that is probably an obstacle, but I would like to hear what you think of this idea and whether there are any feasible slopes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u83	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, thank you for this idea out of the box. As an ecologist I would of course immediately say:yes, let's do that. So I asked Bpost why this was abolished 15 years ago. I have received a number of elements of reply, which I would like to share with you. Firstly, there are a number of operational problems to work with a train, compared to trucks. This is, of course, about fixed departure times that a train must follow. A truck can wait until all the packages are loaded, a train much less. It should be able to run on the track between the other trains, so to speak. As a result, there is a limitation in the capacity of the rail network which today does not guarantee the necessary flexibility for bpost to sort the products in time and thus to guarantee the quality levels that one wants to achieve. A second element is that this type of transport was only used for transports between sorting centres. Answering your question, none. None of the five industrial sorting centres present are connected to the rail network or could even be connected to this type of connection, I am told. A third element is that this type of transport between sorting centres represents only 25% of all journeys of the volumes of bpost, outside the distribution: 25 % are journeys with deliveries to the sorting centres, collections, collections at home; 25 % are between sorting centres; 50 % is disposal to the distribution offices. At the moment this happens via trucks in the earlier low hours of traffic which cause less traffic problems. That analysis that bpost made 15 years ago and which is still holding up today means that I will probably find it difficult to convince them to re-enter the mail train, although I think it is a great idea. It's important, though. It must be said that I do find, and you with me, that bpost must do everything in its power to reduce the environmental and mobility impact of the many transports. For example, emissions. They have already introduced new jumbot trailers and tractors on CNG, which actually meet the desire to reduce the ecological footprint of the transport. The trucks they have also all have euro standard 6. This is an evolution in the right direction in relation to the ecological footprint. However, I fear that we are not going to manage the postal train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u84	Madam Secretary, that's too bad. I would have hoped you would say that you would like to look at this again to see if there are any possible slopes. Now that there are night trains again, this may also be possible. After all, the use of the train to transport packages would be an ecologically good development.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u85	Madam Minister, you have already replied to some of this. Last year, the updated services were already communicated in October for the following year. That has not yet been done in view of next year's planning, and the staff are concerned about that. Do you have any information on the matter? Why has nothing been said about the updated service for 2021?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u86	I was a little confused. I thought the question was included in the debate. I must continue to owe you the answer to that partial question. You asked exactly when it would be communicated. I will request that and then I can give you the answer in writing. Now, unfortunately, I do not have a ready-made answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u87	It was indeed a separate question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u88	Madam Minister, we all hope that the vaccines will soon be delivered to everyone. The answer to the question of which choices are made is not easy. That is an ethical discussion, a political discussion. It is obvious, of course, that the people of care come first, together with the most vulnerable and the teaching staff. Will your cabinet also carry out a risk analysis for the vaccination of all the employees you are responsible for, both at Proximus and at Bpost? Are these companies also asking to vaccinate their employees more quickly because of the role they play? Do you really think they belong to the risk groups? Or are there certain categories? In short, how do you see the vaccination? Has that been discussed yet? Is there a risk analysis for the personnel groups for which you are responsible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u89	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, this is a very topical question, as we are working on the strategy for vaccination, thinking about the different stages and the different priority groups. It is true that, on behalf of the public companies Proximus and bpost, the question was asked whether their employees could be vaccinated more quickly as employees of an essential sector, which I think is a very logical question. Proximus and bpost have also offered to contribute to the vaccination strategy by providing post offices or Proximus shops as vaccination centres, if necessary. We are looking at this information together with the task force working on it. We are examining whether the question of risk profile needs to be addressed and whether there is indeed a need for offices where vaccinations can take place. It is not for me to make any decisions in this regard, since I cannot allow these workers to be brought forward. After all, there are still key sectors, including security services, police and teaching staff. You are aware of the discussion that is taking place on this subject. I understand, moreover, that this discussion is still taking place, including with the relevant levels and the Länder, within the task force. The first phase will be rolled out as a priority in the residential care centres. Since it takes some time to get the vaccines on the spot, we still have some time to fine-tune that exercise and make decisions in the coming weeks and months. People with medical risks under 45 years of age are also described as a potential risk group. The question of Proximus and bpost fits perfectly into that debate, but at the moment there is no answer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-08-definitief-55-commissie-ic313x.u90	Madam Minister, it is a good thing that we are looking at the whole and that the public sector is also being looked at. I am already pleased that everything is being sorted out within the task force and that you say that maybe locations can be used. I welcome the fact that it is being looked at in its entirety.
