ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u1	Madam Minister, the Medical Accidents Fund was established by law of 31 March 2010 to advise medical accident victims after a medical and legal investigation on whether a healthcare professional is liable for the accident and to provide them with some guarantees for the effective compensation of the damage. For example, it provides an alternative way of dealing with the accident by friendly or judicial means. It is an autonomous service of the National Institute for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance. The Court of Auditors has examined the extent to which the service has succeeded in achieving the objectives of the legislator and whether the legal and organisational framework provides sufficient guarantees for the performance of the tasks of the fund. We have to establish that the findings of the Court of Auditors were not mild. The objectives of faster, simpler, cheaper and more effective handling of files could not be achieved in practice. Madam Secretary, are you aware of the accumulated delay in the file and the difficult search for a balance between speed and care in handling the files? What will you do to solve these problems? Will the matter be discussed in the management committee or has it already been discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u2	Madam Secretary, the Medical Accidents Fund was established in 2010 as the service of the RIZIV. It must ensure that people can obtain compensation if a medical error has occurred or a medical error has occurred. In this way, patients should not have to go to court. It had to be fast, low-threshold and free to obtain the concession. The Court of Auditors' audit now shows that the risk of compensation is very low. Four out of five files aren't being held. Another point of interest is that a decision would take four years on average. That's a long time. In addition, victims complain that they are not getting enough information. As a result, the Fund's objective is partly missed. After all, victims increasingly turn to court. Nine out of ten victims go back to court. The Director of the Medical Accidents Fund points to the low threshold for submitting a file as one of the reasons for the delay. The Administrator-General of the RIZIV, Jo De Cock, points to the outdated legislation of 31 March 2010 as one of the possible causes. What conclusions do you draw from the audit of the Court of Auditors on the operation of the Medical Accidents Fund? There was once criticism of the operation of the Fund. What measures will you take to offer solutions together with the RIZIV? After all, the RIZIV announces that it has drawn up proposals to bring solutions. How is the internal improvement process of the Fund, which has already been launched in response to previous complaints? Finally, it is suggested that a proposal for revision of the law is being prepared or prepared. If that is the case, what is the meaning of the legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u3	We have no news from Mrs. Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u4	We have certainly made a joint answer to all the questions. It is important to give an update on the Medical Accidents Fund. Delta I Consulting conducted an external audit at the fund in 2018. This resulted in a 20-point annual action plan. The Medical Accidents Fund has tried to use these points simultaneously. This was, of course, done in consultation with the management committee. Mrs Sneppe, you asked whether the management committee had already considered the matter. That hasn't done anything but that. The staff framework and the organisation chart were also adapted at the RIZIV. Several recruitments were made. Among other things, a legal coordinator, a medical coordinator and a file manager were adopted. A communication plan was also drawn up which focused on the readability and comprehensibility of the fund's website. There was also work on leaflets and information in the context of both one-sided and contradictory expertise. Informal information sessions for ombud services, medical management and medical experts were also organised as part of the communication. In the course of 2020, these information sessions will be further organised by the Medical Accidents Fund, extending the target audience. There was also an annual action plan that provided for more structured consultations and meetings. In the course of 2019, a two-week consultation between the various coordinators was structurally planned as well as regular service meetings for the different departments. At the end of 2019, a system and codification in the Management Committee were proposed by the Medical Coordinator. This codification is currently being used systematically for the new opinions. This encoding is also used for the processing of the previous files. It is indeed intended that the Fund should learn from this and at least examine whether certain dossiers can be completed more quickly and easily on the basis of this knowledge and experience. Unlike the old software, DAMO is a software program that allows file follow-up. This new software was put into operation in April 2017 and is still regularly updated and updated. Each new release makes improvements. Today DAMO is limited to the management of the opinions. It has insufficient functionalities to meet all the needs of the fund in the field of document management. After all, we are dealing with very bulky dossiers with little or no metadata. The previous release in February 2020 started with the inclusion of DAMO for the third phase of the management of the file, in particular the financial part and the compensation. It also included for the first time the integration of certain RIZIV databases. In addition to DAMO, the fund also uses other software. Some of these applications are used by all RIZIV services, others are specific applications for the fund. The in- and out-communication concerns software used to send all mail digitally to the administration. This software is also regularly updated and improved. The fund chose Tresorit in connection with a GDPR-safe electronic exchange of data with experts and other stakeholders. In collaboration with the RIZIV helpdesk, the fund offers users maximum support. This application is used smoothly and to their satisfaction by most users. Here and there there are some problems with the required double authentication that is necessary for the GDPR but also for the compliance of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. Then there is PACSonWEB, an application for sharing medical images. The files often contain medical images. This application is used to store the images that the fund receives on all kinds of carriers, from DVDs to usb and sometimes shared with temporary codes. It is also intended to use this tool to share the images in case of expertise. This will examine the extent to which all involved can consult these images. Consultation with the supplier is ongoing. Repair is an application for calculating damages. It is true that some of the modifications we asked for were included late in this application and the fund has alerted the supplier in collaboration with the IT service of the RIZIV. The adjustments have taken place in the meantime. Here again, the accuracy of Repair is closely monitored. The fund makes important efforts to obtain medical data in the easiest way, with a preference for digital data exchange. However, the Fund notes that there are considerable differences between the different systems, both in health care institutions and in care providers. Although the law provides in Article 15 that the fund may request information from anyone who can provide it, it has considerable resistance to accessing the existing files. The eHealth platform can be used for the correct exchange of data. This possibility is examined in consultation between the fund, the IT service of the RIZIV and eHealth. Then there was a question about the simplified handling of files with a low undetectable severity. On 9 June 2017, the Management Committee opted for a different approach in this area. For cases where there is clear evidence that the damage does not reach the severity threshold, the Fund shall, where expertise remains possible, opt for one-sided expertise. The aim was to reduce the number of conflicting expertise, which is something that requires more time, and thus reduce the duration of the expertise. The internal handling of a file with one-sided expertise was therefore simplified. There is no additional consultation within the fund when the expertise report is clear. The Fund implemented these new directives with caution. The figures for the annual reports of 2017 and 2018 show that the number of opinions in these files has increased significantly compared to previous years. DAMO does not have the ability to analyse separate lead times by file type and can only provide complete information for files from April 2017. Data from before April 2017 contain insufficient or inaccurate data. As a result, it is not possible to see the impact of this measure in the figures. Other procedural measures are also being worked on to shorten the lead time of the files with the Fund. Among other things, we are committed to the rapid processing of the results of the expertises, both one-sided and contradictory. In addition, efforts are also being made to complete more files based on the analysis of internal doctors. The experience gained by the Fund is also used to provide useful advice to both victims and care providers. Like you, Mr Bertels, I witnessed the discussions on the fund. It was a decision that had to be taken at the end of the legislature. However, the fund has had a difficult start, which has also had an impact on its operation. It was intended that the fund would work at a low threshold. It was also intended that proceedings would take much less time than judicial proceedings, which could last 10 to 20 years, but apparently the fund has been the victim of its success. There wasn't enough money to be invested to set everything up. There is still a lot of work to be done, but I believe that the fund is now working in a structural way and is on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u5	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. So there seems to have been some work done to remedy the problems, but the graph in the Court of Auditors' report shows that you yourself admit that there is still a lot of work to be done. The delay is very slow. I hope that the steps that have already been taken will benefit that process and that people will not lose faith in the Fund, because then they would have to go to court again. I hope you'll follow it up, along with the management committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for the overview of the mainly internal management and operation processes, which are improved by the Fund's Management Committee and even by the RIZIV Management Committee when using the software tools of the RIZIV. If eHealth is useful in exchanging medical data in this context, we must make sure that it is used. At the end of your reply, you pointed out the objectives of the fund. I think that we should always continue to take it to heart. The fund must be accessible and it must avoid that victims of medical errors or alleged medical errors once again feel obliged to opt for lengthy legal proceedings. Long procedures are not good for the victim because of the duration and because they require a lot of work, but also for the care provider, who is also confronted with the duration, with intervening insurance companies and possibly with fear of the future. We must ensure that the fund can take its task to heart so that the objectives are achieved. Since this has been going on for almost ten years, it should now gradually reach cruising speed. You say we are on the right track, and I hope so with you. As policy-makers, we must also ensure that the fund is provided with the necessary resources and tools to go further along the road to achieving its objectives. Now the objectives are not being achieved, which means that we have to tell the citizens once again that they can contact the fund and that the fund will be able to do what it was set up for. The original law was drawn up and adopted in 2010. The objectives set at that time remain useful and valid. We must ensure that these objectives are met. The administration responsible for this must be provided with the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u7	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55002959C) by Mrs Kattrin Jadin, No. 55003050C) by Mrs Catherine Fonck and No. 55003212C by Mrs Sophie Thémont are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, the number of new employers and entrepreneurs recruiting a first worker with almost complete exemption from basic employer contributions is constantly increasing. The reduction in social contributions for a first hired worker cost more than half a billion euros in 2019 and will represent an expenditure of one billion hundred million euros in 2024. I am therefore concerned about the financing of social security, which is already fragile and threatened. Minister, how do you plan to fill the budget gap in social security? What will be the other source of funding? Are you considering maintaining this exemption system? If so, how long?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Dedonder, the exemption from employer contributions for the employment of a first worker is a measure that has been taken under the tax shift. Funding is provided through alternative financing. For the rest, it will be up to the new full-year federal government to decide on the continuation of the employer contribution exemption system for the hiring of a first worker. I don't know who will decide, but it's up to him to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u10	Minister, I cannot answer the question either. I wanted to draw attention to this because I think it is a big gift that has been given to companies. This gift is not controllable, nor measurable. This measure has obviously been taken at the expense of social security. This is why the measure should be reassessed in terms of its cost, impact, tax shift and the objectives that have been set. This total exemption from employer's contributions covers an indefinite period and a worker of choice, usually the one with the highest wage. I therefore agree with you that this measure will have to be reassessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u11	Mrs Dedonder, we will indeed have to carry out a re-evaluation. But contrary to what you say, this measure is measurable. We have seen how many jobs have been created, especially by self-employed people who do not yet have staff. On this occasion, many people were able to get a first job. As far as I am concerned, I believe that this measure has advantages. But there is a time for everything and, from time to time, an evaluation must be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u12	Minister, we agree on the re-evaluation. It is true that jobs have been created, but we still need to know what jobs. In my opinion, we really need to evaluate, to see if the jobs created are of quality. It may also be necessary to consider going further in the area of compensation for lower income for social security. Indeed, the financing of social security will be one of the major issues during the parliamentary re-entry. We will have the opportunity to discuss this issue again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u13	"Flights get pay during training nurse," said the headline of February 1, a while ago. According to the article, they are refugees who have already received training and a diploma in their home country, but whose diploma is not accepted here. This is done in the context of the shortage of nurses, which is understandable. At first sight, that may be a noble initiative, but I have some doubts about that. What status do the refugees have? How and by whom is it checked whether the refugees have actually obtained a diploma in their own country? So it's a full paycheck? If not, how much is it? How many people are we talking about? What is the total cost? Can you give me a regional breakdown? What nationalities do the refugees have? Does the measure apply specifically and exclusively to refugees? Then why is that exactly? What language requirements are required? In the case of employment of foreign workers not only in the care sector but also in other sectors, the main problems are language skills, a different work attitude and cultural differences. For example, a study on the integration of the University of Antwerp from 2011 concludes. In the healthcare sector, however, these elements are crucial, even vitally important. How are these problems solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u14	In 2020, the Intersectoral Fund for Health Services set up the IntegraZorg project for persons with the status of recognised refugee. In the course of training, they are recruited after successful testing of motivation and knowledge, including language, from a health care institution belonging to the Joint Committee 330, under an employee status and receive a wage during training. Recognition of diplomas from the country of origin is attested by the National Academic Recognition Information Centres, which fall within the competence of the Communities. They receive a full wage, determined on the basis of the IFIC-barema for a logistics assistant, which is category 8 of the job guide, with 0 years seniority. The Intersectoral Health Services Fund has reserved 45 full-time equivalent places for the project, 15 per Region. For the training started in September 2020, 7 candidates have so far been successful and selected. It concerns 4 French speakers and 3 Dutch speakers. For the 7 successful candidates, this represents a budget of 262,000 euros on an annual basis. The project for recognised refugees is a small part of the projects of the Intersectoral Fund for Health Services. In 2020, 422 employees in the nursing training path and 51 employees in the healthcare training path were selected to start the training in September 2020. The resources for training pathways in the Health Care Staff Fund will also make it possible to attract theyintromers for the training pathways and care professional and nurse. Project preparation is under way. The conditions for access include language requirements. They are of course very important, especially in the care sector. The access values to the project integral care are quite strict. This can also be derived from the first test results in the project. The social partners want access to these projects to be objective and to the standards of our education. That is normal, because the training is of a certain level and we must ensure that we train care providers of a good level. The projects should allow them to enter, but are certainly not for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u15	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. If you are talking about the side-influx, I assume that this is not just about refugees, but more than that and that indigenous people will also be dealt with through the side-influx. I hope so. I think it is very good that the language requirements are being taken very seriously, but allow me to doubt that a little. I hope that this will be properly examined and that, if necessary, practical tests will be carried out on the spot, so that there will be no problems. After all, the study of the University of Antwerp raises three problems: linguistic knowledge, different work attitudes and cultural differences. Especially in the area of care, these three points are very important. If this is going to work, I hope it will be evaluated as well. If things go wrong out there, we'll play with lives. Furthermore, your answer was sufficiently informative, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for saving us time by referring your questions to the text! The results of this study show that work in service titles negatively impacts the health of domestic workers and, more specifically, greatly increases the risk of suffering from diseases of the locomotor system. In this context, measures to reduce the negative impact of work in service titles on health should focus as a priority on the prevention of musculoskeletal diseases. The Welfare at Work Act requires the employer to take the necessary measures to promote the well-being of workers in the performance of their work, implementing the general principles of prevention of physical and psychosocial occupational risks. The SPF Emploi has also prepared a specific prevention brochure for the cleaning sector. Fedris also offers a back pain prevention programme and a burn-out prevention pilot project is also under way in the hospital and banking sectors. If the latter is assessed positively in 2021, the intervention may be extended to other sectors. Furthermore, as the INAMI study is still under way, unfortunately we are not yet in a position to provide more specific recommendations in this regard. However, while keeping these results in mind, particularly the diseases of the locomotor system, Idea Consult's report on feasible and manageable work in the service title sector already offers some avenues for reflection in this area. The purpose of this study is to analyse the effects on employment and occupational health in service titles. We are therefore not studying the reintegration of domestic workers into the labour market after a period of medical clearance. However, other studies may shed light on the debate on the issue of re-employment, particularly in part-time work with a portion of the benefits, known as "work adapted" to the health status of workers. A study by Laura et al. in 2020 on the trajectories of medically excluded individuals shows that these people are more likely to return to part-time rather than full-time employment, and that 75% of them return to the same sector of activity than before their spread. According to the DULBEA Barometer of Incapacity for Work, the number of permits granted for the resumption of part-time employment has increased considerably in recent years. Indeed, for individuals in the general scheme, in 2017 there were about 28,600 women returning to part-time work, compared with 15,000 in 2013, an increase of 84 per cent over four years. For men, this increase was lower. They were 72% with 8,000 authorizations in 2013 compared to 14,000 in 2017. According to INAMI, the number of women working part-time is higher than the number of men. In 2017, 67% of permits were granted to women. Although we did not have figures specific to the household support population, INAMI reported that in 2017, 26% of individuals who returned to work adapted to a medical gap had a musculoskeletal disease. This makes it the group of diseases with the highest rate of return to employment, with a higher percentage than the average for all other diseases. In the specific case of domestic workers, since the repetitive nature of movements causing musculoskeletal diseases is an aggravating factor for these diseases, the reduction in working time proposed by INAMI could therefore make it possible to partially reintegrate domestic workers into the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u17	Minister, thank you for all this accurate and valuable information. I'll have to read the numbers carefully. But I welcome the courage of these workers because we do see that it is with great motivation that these people return to work, despite the conditions that are known to be extremely difficult. I also know that the issue of training for these workers is necessarily a regionalized competence. But since work is under way, it should probably be strengthened with a form of training-related support and follow-up. I think we could make more money. I hope that, as soon as we return home, we will be able to think about mechanisms to try to improve further the working conditions and the working relationship of these workers in the securities and services sector. While they are extremely valuable to our society, they are also often the most difficult in the sector in which they work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u18	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I would still like to remind you of a few figures. In 2004, Belgium implemented the service securities system. The State paid the social security contributions and the client paid only the employee's own activity. Some 150,000 jobs have been created to date, mainly for women. This system has brought a lot of women out of work in the dark, but at what cost! Sometimes at the cost of their health and well-being. Employment in service titles negatively affects the health of women workers mainly through an increased risk of musculoskeletal diseases. As you also said, minister, a study was conducted by INAMI, but no leads were identified. We'll have to get back to the subject. I think it still has important consequences. Debates have already been held in the House on this subject. A study of (?) confirms it. One of the most important consequences concerns the feasibility of employment until retirement. Most domestic workers are not able to keep this job until retirement. There is the physical load that we have just talked about, but in addition, this profession is too unrecognized socially. The physical load is therefore added to the mental load that must not be neglected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Thémont, you are asking me if I intend to introduce a robot tax. It doesn't seem like a good idea to me and I'll explain why. As we can see, our economy is particularly affected by coronavirus. In the years to come, we will need to focus even more than ever on economic growth in order to maintain our health care and social model. Introducing a robot tax means introducing a tax on technological innovation and would only slow our economic growth. So it wouldn't be a good idea at all. The digitisation of the economy is a huge challenge, but we must not be afraid of it. On the contrary, we must see opportunities. Will this revolution cause jobs to be lost? Yeah, I guess so. But as with other upheavals, a large number of new jobs will also appear. When we moved from horse and cart to machine, many thought this would lead to massive unemployment. But did this happen? No, it's the opposite. We don't have typographs anymore; the teeth have disappeared except in Bruges, I think. The millers have also disappeared, but a multitude of other more interesting professions have come to take their place and today we have to take the digitization train in motion. We must not try to prevent progress through new taxes. People must be given the means to keep up with technological developments. How do we do this? By focusing more than ever on continuing training. We must ensure that workers are prepared for tomorrow's jobs. When jobs disappear in certain sectors, workers must be able to move quickly towards sectors where they lack the labour force without becoming unemployed. Workers must be able to be hired directly by a new employer with whom they can be trained for a new job. We need to proactively think by allowing people to develop their skills and opportunities. We prevent them from becoming unemployed. Last year, as part of my vision for the future of social security, I also launched the "cappuccino" model. Continuing training throughout its working life plays an important role in this model. I invite everyone to participate in this debate, because ensuring that everyone is involved in this rapidly changing world is a collective responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u20	Minister, thank you for your full answer. As I mentioned in my question, of course, I am not questioning robotics and digitisation, which allow for better productivity and better economic performance; but economic growth cannot be accompanied by a precarisation of our workers. Of course, we must adapt to digital change and to the change in our society, to the disappearance and the emergence of jobs as well, but I think that if we do not put in place concrete measures now, the medium and low-skilled labour force will be the great victim of this transition. You said that we will have to be able to set up a whole series of training courses to best prepare workers for this change and for these new sectors. That's a good thing. I think the state really has to be an actor in this process. It must enable all citizens to adapt to the robotics and digitisation of our society. He must provide training for tomorrow's trades. I would add that this work must be carried out in close cooperation with the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Thémont, I am still here because I have no stress, fortunately! I am fully aware of the considerable increase in psychosocial disorders in recent years. Mental pathologies account for more than a third of the causes of disability according to the data available within INAMI. For example, as at 31 December 2019, there were 420,000 disabled workers in the wage-earning system, of whom 153,000 suffered from mental disorders, and of these, 28,000 suffered from burn-out. As of the same date, the self-employed had 27,000 disabled persons, of whom 6,000 were mentally ill, and 1,600 had burn-out. Given the importance of this problem, it is obviously essential to raise the awareness of the working world about the problem of burn-out and to focus on prevention. During this legislature, we worked with various institutions on an integrated and coordinated prevention policy on work-related mental disorders, including burn-out. An integrated policy requires actions and projects at each level of prevention and intervention, but also more comprehensive initiatives. As a result, 12 projects were selected for the integrated prevention of work-related mental disorders. The results of the various projects were presented at a seminar on 10 March 2020. An information campaign was also launched and the website www.stressburnout.belgique.be was created. It contains a wealth of information on how to prevent burn-out, identify and overcome it. This site receives an average of 4,000 visitors per month. As a result of the VOCID crisis, it was more frequented with peaks in February of 26,000 visitors. In addition, as early as 2015, I commissioned Fedris to play an active role in the secondary prevention of psychosocial load disorders. As you know, I am competent for secondary and tertiary prevention but not for primary prevention. The latter is the responsibility of the Communities. To consider the recognition of burn-out and work-related psychosocial disorders as work-related illness, a similar project is being developed to prevent locomotor disorders. After a study phase and work with field experts, Fedris developed a pilot project on a journey to accompany workers at risk or at an early stage of burn-out, as a result of psychosocial risk in relation to work. This started in January 2019. This pilot project aims to include a maximum of 300 to 1,000 people. The target audience is workers in the financial services and hospital sectors. The aim of this accompanying journey is to enable workers to remain at work or to recover quickly. After 18 months of operation, approximately 440 workers were included in this project. They're either in the care phase, or they're done with it. A first partial analysis carried out in May on the first 50 closed journeys seems to show a positive impact with the retention at work or the resumption of work at 80% of the workers, at the time the follow-up journey ends. This, in my view, is a very good result. This first impression should be confirmed by the final evaluation of the planned project at the end of three years. After this evaluation, we can decide on new actions. But, once again, the decision will be the responsibility of the next government. In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that primary prevention falls within the competence of my colleague, Mrs Muylle, the Minister for Employment, who can also provide you with a number of information on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u22	Minister, thank you for your full answer. My question was tabled in February and therefore before the health crisis. It goes without saying that since then the situation in terms of burn-out has not improved. Effective means will therefore need to be made available to help workers suffering from ill-being. As you said, focusing on prevention is important. In addition, the impact of coronavirus on mental health has been very significant, with almost one in two workers now suffering from anxiety and depression as a result of the crisis, a number that is worrying. As you said earlier, the health sector is one of the most affected. In fact, a new study conducted by UCL and ULB shows that today there are twice as many caregivers as in January to suffer from, among other things, emotional exhaustion, being on the front line in the face of VOCID. After two months of health crisis, the record is there: in January, 36% of nurses were at risk of burn-out. There are 71 per cent of them today. I think we're gonna have to take action. A pilot project has been in place since 2019. The evaluation will only take place in three years, it's quite long. I thank you, in any case, for your answers, and I also believe that the sector is really calling for structural and sustainable changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u23	Madam, I can explain to you that in Fedris, we are still working through pilot projects. This was also done for musculoskeletal diseases. All these projects have a duration of three years. Intermediate evaluations are also being conducted. And then it becomes structural. We've always worked like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u24	Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u25	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, the list of prophylactic leave – that is, leave to compensate workers who are prohibited from going to work following contact with a person with a contagious disease – does not include VOCID-19. Including this new condition in this list would, however, have many advantages. I am thinking of better compensation for workers, the abolition of late payment penalties for insured persons who enter a medical certificate out of time and, above all, more effective confinement, since the disease must be declared. Madam Minister, my question will be simple: will you put VOCID-19 on the list of prophylactic leave? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u26	Mrs Tillieux, the existing compensation scheme guarantees sufficient protection. In the event of incapacity for work, persons infected with VOCID-19 are initially entitled to the guaranteed wage. After this period, the persons concerned receive sickness benefit from the sickness insurance. In the case of compulsory quarantine, the worker is entitled to temporary unemployment benefits, the amount of which has been temporarily increased to 70%.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u27	Mr President, a short question, also a short answer. It is true that, in our country, prophylaxis leave is the preventive leave used in case of danger of contagion, in order to avoid the spread of a disease. In concrete terms, when living under the same roof as a person with a disease – in the opinion of the treating physician – such as VOCID-19, the doctor must contact the head of a medical service to declare the disease absolutely. In our case, I do not think it is inappropriate – even though the temporary allowances have been raised financially – to reflect on this path of solution, since the law currently only mentions certain contagious diseases. We know them: diphtheria, epidemic encephalitis, typhus, paratyphus, cerebrospinal meningitis, polio, scarletin, smallpox. But it is true that, in the context of the pandemic we are experiencing, if the VOCID-19 were to come back with a new wave and if we have to exercise extreme caution to avoid its spread, I really think that the issue of prophylactic leave could come back to the table. This issue may not be relevant at this time, but I think it could really be a preventive leave to avoid the spread of the disease that would put everyone on an equal footing. There are now employers who do not necessarily resort to temporary unemployment. These are the clarifications I wanted to make, I hear the position of the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u28	Mrs. Thémont, thank you. It is true that our social security must constantly evolve to keep pace with the social changes in our society. We know that our social model has been built in the context of the post-war era, which is no longer today's. Thus, the family model, in the traditional era, has evolved over the last few decades into a multitude of very diverse figures. To take account of these changes, social security has certainly adapted but without radical paradigm change. More and more voices are being heard in order to further review concepts such as the status of the cohabitant. I have taken note with interest of the work of the morning of study that took place in the Senate in April 2018 or of the Memorandum of the Service for Combating Poverty, Precarity and Social Exclusion for the 2019 federal and regional elections. While the impact of the cohabitant's status on women is extremely important, it is also important for other groups of citizens who sometimes find themselves in complex and difficult situations. I am very much in favour of this subject being the subject of in-depth multidisciplinary analysis with a view to reaching the formulation of reform proposals which we could discuss at a political level. However, the government's commitment is to limit its action outside of the subjects related to the management of the coronavirus crisis, by managing the other aspects in the same framework as that of current affairs. I am therefore not in a position to develop a new policy on a topic as sensitive as that of cohabiting status. I think it will be appropriate to put this issue on the agenda of political discussions on social policy when it comes to discussing a programme of a new government. There is a lot of work but I have always been in favour of individual rights because at the time, a family was a man, a woman, a few children and the dog and the cat. This is no longer the case. There are more and more young people, but there are also older people who are alone or cohabiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u29	Madam Minister, thank you. I am, of course, pleased with your answer and to hear that you are in favour of a reform proposal. It is true that certain aspects of our social system reinforce inequalities and create injustices, which goes against its objective. As you said, the government is in the business of day-to-day business. Let us hope that the next government will take this into account. I will not fail to question this and to remain attentive to the impact on women, which is important. The impact is also important on other groups of citizens who, as you said, are in difficult situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u30	Madam Minister, this question dates back to April and was raised in response to a number of practical problems which arose at the time, and perhaps even now, in the field. During the Corona crisis, which was already raging in April, all kinds of measures were rightly taken to allow telephone or video consultation, in order to minimise the risk of contamination. That has been a good decision, and I hope that exercise will last after the corona crisis. Doctors wrote an absence certificate in the event of illness, which had to be delivered to the employer. Because the consultation was done by telephone or video, that certificate was not issued immediately and directly to the sick person. Sometimes, due to crowded or forgotten certificates were late with the patient and thus also late with the employer, so that the person in question could be regarded as illegally absent. Although many employers were flexible and understanding during that period, this was not always the case. Did you pick up the same signals from the grounds? Do you have any figures? Is it possible that COVID-19-related cases which had lately delivered their absence certificate to the employer would be regularised for the entire period of illness?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u31	Mr Bertels, the employment contract law provides that, in the event of a late submission of a medical certificate, the employer may refuse to pay the guaranteed wage for the period of incapacity for work prior to the submission of this certificate. The application of contract regulations is the responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Mrs Muylle. Where the person concerned does not receive a guaranteed wage following that decision from the employer, he shall not be entitled to invalidity benefits under the social security scheme. In this context, the employer shall communicate the necessary information to the sickness fund through the information sheet. It indicates the exact period for which no guaranteed wage has been paid. In the context of benefit insurance, specific measures have been taken concerning the declaration of incapacity for work by means of a certificate of incapacity for work for the medical adviser of the sickness fund. For example, the two management committees of benefit insurances have adopted specific guidelines under the COOVID-19 pandemic with regard to the dispatch of the certificate of incapacity for work to the medical adviser. In particular, it is permitted to send this also by mail. In addition, it is provided that the penalty for late declaration of incapacity for work shall not apply to all certificates bearing the postmark on 18 March 2020 or received by the sickness fund by e-mail at the earliest from that date, without the intervention of the post. So we do have an exception. g In view of the special circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u32	Madam Secretary, you give a correct description. If I understand correctly, there is, within your jurisdiction, a solution in the context of disability insurance. In this respect, measures have been taken to mitigate the social consequences of late declaration of incapacity to work to insurance institutions through a certificate. I understand, therefore, that you acknowledge that there have been problems. You have rightly described the problems surrounding the guaranteed wage. There is, of course, a period of guaranteed wages first. You don't have any figures. For these figures, I must address Mrs Muylle. Is that what you're implying? In that case, I shall address Mrs Muylle again. The lack of guaranteed wages is, after all, financially detrimental to the social security provider and also means a financial cost for social security, which does not have to be there. However, I will check with Mrs Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u33	Madam Minister, this question dates back to April, the same goes for Mrs Dedonder's question. The six-month extension has now been implemented for the cheques that ended in April, May and June 2020. There is still uncertainty as to the validity and usability of these cheques both in receiving commercial transactions and in people who have received the cheques. Is the government still working on communications?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Dedonder, following the communication of opinion No 2161 of the Labour Council of 8 April 2020, I asked my administration to prepare a draft royal decree, which was promulgated on 20 May and published in the Belgian Moniteur on 29 May. The purpose of this text is to extend the period of validity of meal titles, eco-cheques, gift certificates, as well as sports and culture cheques that are due to expire, otherwise they will not - or may not - be able to - be used before the emergency measures taken as a result of the pandemic are lifted. The period of validity of meal cheques, ecocheques and gift cheques which expired in March, April, May and June has been extended for a period of 6 months. Sports and culture cheques with 30 September as expiry date remain valid until 31 December 2020. We contacted the publishers of the cheques and then a campaign was conducted and reports were made to the traders and beneficiaries. There was also communication with employers to enable them to answer the questions of their staff. All I can do is put this as a FAQ on the corona website. That site is consulted very often and it is a small effort to have it mentioned there. For the rest, I believe that we have communicated widely, but perhaps it has escaped the attention of some people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u35	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for implementing the advice of the social partners with the KB, which was decided in May. Your suggestion to include that in the corona website's FAQs may be effective. Since we are doing a lot of work on this, it may seem a little strange to us that there is still uncertainty among the citizens, but that is the case. Apparently, they don't always find communication channels easy. If you can still do that, it wouldn't be bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u36	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u37	Mrs Lanjri, European Directive No. 1158 of 20 June 2019 on the balance between work and private life for parents and carers indeed provides that, in the case of paternity leave, for example, the Member State must ensure an income at least equivalent to the income that the worker concerned would receive in the event of an interruption of the worker's activities on grounds relating to the health status of the worker within the limits of any ceiling set by national law. This is stated in Article 8 (2) of the Directive. Since the invalidity allowance granted to employees in the insurance scheme is 60% of the earnings lost and the allowance granted from the fourth day of paternity leave corresponds to 82% of the earnings lost, the current Belgian legislation complies with that European Directive, since the first three days are paid by the employer in the same way. The provision of such a benefit equal to the allowance granted in the case of maternity rest, namely 82% of the unlimited loss of earnings for the insured person linked to an employment contract during the first 30 days of maternity rest, is merely a recommendation and states in recital 30 of the Directive. It is true that further consideration can be given to the possible budgetary impact, among other things; in any case, there is no obligation to do so on the basis of the Directive. The European Directive also provides that Member States may make the right to a paternity leave allowance conditional on the period of employment completed for up to six months immediately before the expected date of birth of the child. That is Article 8 (2) of the Directive. Belgian legislation provides that, in order to qualify for a paternity leave benefit, an employee must, in principle, go through a waiting period of six months, in which a full-time worker must prove 120 working days or equivalent days and a part-time worker 400 working hours (...). However, the six-month waiting period may be extended to a maximum of 18 months for part-time workers who are unable to prove the volume of work of 400 hours for six months because of their working arrangements. We are still examining the impact of the directive on the current conditions for waiting time in Belgian regulations. In this context, I would like to say that the directive must be transposed into the Belgian legal order by 2 August 2022 at the latest. Mrs Lanjri, your question about the extent to which Belgian labour law complies with the European directive falls within the competence of my colleague, Mr Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u38	Madam Minister, we do have until 2 August 2022 to transpose the directive into national law. I hope that you will be able to calculate the cost of implementing the provisions as soon as possible and examine the impact of the transposition of the directive into our legislation. In the meantime, of course, I will also ask Mrs Muylle about its impact on labour law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u39	Mrs Fonck and Mrs Gijbels know that their question will be without object.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u40	Madam Minister, the old question on the recognition of corona as an occupational disease has already been settled. You have taken a power of attorney in response to the advice of the Fedris Management Committee. The implementation of this is now running and hopefully going well. Then I had a question about the volunteer paramedics. My fellow Members also refer to this. There is, however, a potential discussion there. You know that the occupational disease scheme has been recognised and extended. There is also recognition for volunteers. However, there is still no adequate recognition or protection for the voluntary ambulancemen of the Red Cross or the Flemish Cross, who have also been driving around with potentially infected patients and have thus been potentially at higher risk. Are any initiatives taken or in preparation so that the voluntary ambulancemen of the Red Cross or of the Flemish Cross will also be able to enjoy protection like their colleagues in the professional class?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u41	Voluntary firefighters working in rescue areas were not covered by occupational health insurance. Together with your government colleagues, you have announced that they will now be treated in the same way as their professional colleagues. However, no identical measures have been taken for voluntary paramedics working in health-care transport. They carry out a very large number of ambulance transfers between hospitals with patients with illnesses. It would therefore be normal for them to also benefit from this occupational disease insurance. Madam Minister, my question is the same as that of Mr Bertels: are you considering recognising voluntary paramedics so that they can benefit from occupational health insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u42	Mr President, a great deal has been done in the past few weeks in the field of occupational diseases. For those who have stood in the line of fire in the fight against the health crisis we are experiencing, several royal decisions have been taken specifically to regulate the situation of persons and categories about which you are asking me questions. I have also explained most of the measures in the Special Committee on COVID-19. However, I should like to say a few words about this. I asked Fedris to give an opinion on COVID-19 as an occupational disease. That question was therefore for the management committee for Fedris' occupational diseases which issued an opinion. This opinion led to Royal Decree No. 39 amending the list of occupational diseases. In the list of occupational diseases, the KB introduces a new code recognising COOVID-19 as an occupational disease for workers in companies in the key sectors and the essential services that have had to continue their occupational activities, without being able to work telework and without complying with the rules of social discrimination. The new code also covers public sector workers. Voluntary members of the operational staff of the assisted areas will now be covered in respect of occupational diseases. Their situation is not regulated by a special power decision because the law of 25 April 2014, which lays down the application to operational personnel of the relief zones, had already provided the necessary legal basis. The Royal Decree of 12 June 2020, following the Corona crisis, only finalised the principle already adopted, by guaranteeing the operational staff of the relief zones, as well as their professional colleagues, coverage of occupational diseases. For other volunteers, who are not subject to social security, I foresee the creation of a COOVID-19 fund. The scope of this fund is very broad, as it covers not only all volunteers within the meaning of the law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers, but also association workers and students. Voluntary ambulances not connected to a relief zone are also included. The voluntary ambulance workers are therefore also covered by this fund. The COVID-19 Voluntary Fund is financed by a donation from the Federal State, entered in the Social Security Office budget. The term 'voluntary' is used to define the categories that cover different situations. On the one hand, there are the volunteers covered by the 2005 law on the rights of volunteers, on the other hand, the voluntary firefighters and paramedics who are not subject to social security for workers, in so far as the remuneration of their activities as voluntary firefighters and/or voluntary ambulance workers does not exceed a certain amount. If they exceed the ceiling, they are also covered by insurance, like any other worker, and thus by occupational diseases. All these volunteers are therefore not covered in respect of occupational diseases, with the exception of the category of operational staff of the assisted areas. This exception resulted directly from the status of the relief zones introduced by the 2015 reform. The current differences are therefore not the result of an unevenly applied social security policy, but rather of the intrinsic differences inherent in the status of the various categories mentioned. This is thus determined by the 2015 reform. An important criterion is whether or not contributions are paid. Then there is one group which is not covered by an occupational disease scheme within our social security system: the self-employed. I have already had a question about this, probably during the COOVID committees. Within the framework of the single social statute, I am also in favour of providing for occupational diseases for them too. In other words, if a selfemployed person develops an occupational disease in the context of his own activities, he is not covered by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u43	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It was a fair summary. Much has happened with regard to the occupational disease scheme. Cases were also resolved for the relief areas. My question was precisely about the voluntary ambulancemen of, for example, the Red Cross, who are effectively covered by the voluntary status and can be given partial protection, but have been exposed to the same risks. Could an exceptional situation be created for them during this exceptional period, during which they have taken exceptional risks, for example when transporting potentially infected patients or patients in particular, so that they can be fully protected against occupational diseases? They have partial protection, you have a point, but it is not full protection. If I understand you correctly, there are no further initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the VOCID-19 Fund will be set up to intervene. You mentioned the categories of people who will be eligible. Anyway, I hope I understand you well, because the sound is very bad. With this in mind, the paramedics, referred to in my question and that of Mr Bertels, will be well taken care of by this fund if they have been contaminated with the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u45	My question No 55005905C concerns the Royal Decree on benefits for primary incapacity for work and temporary unemployment. Unless the Minister wishes to add something, it has been resolved by a bill that has been voted on. I have no news from Mrs Kitir, Mrs Jadin and Mr Rigot. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55006012C, 55006013C and 55006015C of Mr Anseeeuw are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u46	Ms. Leroy, the fact is that a legal allowance is only provided for the president of the Artists Commission, and not for the representatives of the organizations. The question was never asked by the sector or by the Commission. The reasons for your question are therefore not clear to me. Yet we often have contacts with the Artists Commission. In any case, it is not possible, in everyday affairs, to foresee a token of presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u47	Minister, since this is not possible in day-to-day business, I note it for the rest of the day, when we may have a government. You ask where this question comes from. In fact, it comes from the artistic sector, from artists. You know the stakes of the last few months. I believe that the arts sector and federations have become more organized and have analysed the situation in which they were located. At an informal meeting, they told us that the representatives of ONSS, INASTI, ONEM and the trade union organisations that are present in this committee are in the framework of their professional function, and are therefore paid. While artists also participate in their profession, they themselves do not have any remuneration. Indeed, this issue came up somewhat unexpectedly. It would be worth more thought in the coming months. If only for the clear recognition of the fact that it is a professional activity and that it is therefore normal for it to be paid, according to the adage "all work deserves pay". I don't think it should be very expensive or very problematic. You are telling me that this has never been mentioned or considered. I believe that this can be considered in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u48	Minister, I will adjust my question because, since it was introduced, the legislation has been passed and put in place. It is up to us that mothers are still in difficulty when it comes to going to their mutuals to see exactly what is planned, mainly as regards retroactivity and its implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u49	Ms Leroy, the Act of 12 June 2020 amending periods during prenatal rest and which may be taken into account for the extension of postnatal rest has profoundly changed the maternity rest regime for women workers, allowing for the inclusion of new days that can now be assimilated to working days, when they occur during the six weeks preceding the presumed date of delivery. Pursuant to this new law, INAMI has adapted the administrative circulars to the attention of insurers and mutual societies with regard to maternity rest and the separation of pregnant workers from work. These circulars thus transpose the new legal provisions resulting from the Act of 12 June 2020. In addition, INAMI has prepared a number of technical notes supporting various insurers and mutual societies with a view to the practical implementation of these new legal provisions. I am thinking in particular of the impact of a birth that is before or after the expected date of birth in the case of a worker who is unable to work before the maternity rest takes effect. Within the framework of these new legal provisions, INAMI has also organized several technical meetings in recent weeks with the National Intermutualist College (CIN) to discuss a number of technical aspects relating to the implementation of these new measures. In preparation for these meetings, INAMI also contacted the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation to ensure uniform application of these new regulations in both labour and social security law. Finally, in the context of the entry into force of these new measures retroactive to 1 March, great attention was also paid to the development of clear instructions to enable the various cases concerned to be regularised, taking into account the various aspects of labour law, such as the right to a guaranteed wage and/or to the payment of public holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you. I think these answers are complete. These are indeed information we need, because we are often questioned. With regard to retroactivity, do you also confirm that, when the leave was interrupted, the mother who could have benefited from her extended leave can no longer have access to it, since she interrupted her maternity leave? This is the case that we have a great deal to do with it. Mothers in the transition from retroactive to enforcement were forced to return to work because the law was not yet effective. And as they returned to work, they could not benefit from this new right, while they were returning to date conditions. They were beyond 1 March, but between 1 March and the time of implementation, some women had to return to work. Do we agree that they will never be able to benefit from these 'lost' days because they have interrupted their leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u51	This is a good example, but I have to check with INAMI, because I am not sure that this is legally possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u52	I don't think so. Anyway, I'll come back and ask you about the INAMI. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u53	Madam Minister, I will not outline the entire legal situation of bridging benefits for self-employed persons, whether in the main occupation or largely in the secondary profession. I have described them in the written record of my question. My question concerns a specific situation. Some workers with incapacity for work have been allowed to resume a progressive work and may carry out or start up a limited self-employment activity. This is an effective and limited activity for workers who, by definition, supplement their occupational disability allowance with a modest income, on the basis of what the consultant considers feasible, given their health situation. Nothing has yet been settled there with regard to the bridging benefit, while the income derived from the self-employed activity is important to supplement the income, and certainly important for the subsequent labour market opportunities of the worker concerned in progressive work resumption. In view of this gap with regard to those small auxiliary workers, is my question therefore whether you will provide a specific temporary allowance for disabled workers who, with the agreement of the counsellor, acquire a limited income as self-employed persons in the secondary profession, the likely annual income of which is between EUR 1,548 and EUR 6,996? As you know, these limits are now important for obtaining a bridging allowance. Would you like to do something about that? Is there any consultation with the Minister responsible for self-employed workers, Mr Ducarme?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u54	The cumulative between a crisis bridging allowance and a sickness benefit is regulated by Royal Decree No 13 of 27 April 2020. It is specifically provided that persons in incapacity for work or in disability who are engaged in an independent activity authorised by an advisory physician of a sickness fund are not entitled to the temporary right to bridge the crisis. If they have to interrupt their authorised activity for the sake of COOVID-19, they may fall entirely back on the full amount of the invalidity or invalidity allowance. The reduction in the sickness benefit paid in the case of an authorised activity will then no longer be applied by the sickness fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u55	That's right, Madam Secretary. You effectively mention the application of the KB. I am concerned about some workers with usually a small disability allowance, because it is of course calculated on a previous employment in respect of permitted work by the counsellor who had a small supplement to the disability allowance, thanks to that small authorised self-employed activity. They now fall back on a low benefit. They do not have the right to a partial and temporary crisis benefit, as you call it, which other self-employed persons in the main occupation receive, which is obvious, but also other self-employed persons in the secondary occupation who engage in other activities. That gap remains, if I understand correctly. I need to think about what we're gonna do with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I have the honour to ask the last question before the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u57	Mrs Lanjri, you have indeed the honour and the pleasure to put the last question before the parliamentary recess, as far as there will be, of course. The sickness benefits for workers are temporarily adjusted to the increased benefits for temporary unemployment. This is how we safeguard the purchasing power of that group. The minimum amount for sickness benefits is also increased to the minimum amount for temporary unemployment. The minima are also applied for the first six months in contrast to the normal scheme. The scheme applies to all workers who became ill from 1 March to the end of the fixed period for the specific scheme of temporary unemployment. It is a measure proposed by the Group of Ten. The social consequences of the sanitary crisis are felt in the area of applications for social assistance from the OMCWs. There is a strong increased risk that vulnerable groups will end up in poverty and also long-term sick people may find themselves in a precarious socio-economic situation. The government has therefore allocated an additional budget of EUR 115 million to meet the growing demand for social assistance from the OMCWs. It is a measure relating to social assistance which is separate from the measure to grant a premium of EUR 50. It is important that the target group of people who were already ill before 1 March, who can make use of the measure, is broad. These are not just beneficiaries already known to the OMCWs. Persons receiving other social benefits or any family in a difficult situation who have lost part of their income or purchasing power as a result of COVID-19 can also count on it. For the specific applications, I must refer you to my colleague Minister Ducarme, who is responsible for Social Integration and therefore also for the OMCWs. I understand that guidelines have already been given to the OMCWs. Mr Muylle has already indicated how many people are eligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u58	Madam Minister, it is a pity that we have to say to this group, people with disability benefits at the level of a living wage, that they should go to the OMCW if they are having a hard time. Some OCMWs take a very long time, sometimes months, to get a file out. For other groups an increase of EUR 50 was foreseen, which is a very good measure. It's automatic, too. It would be a good thing for people with disability benefits to receive this automatically. Now people often don't know that the OMCW is available. It also depends on how quickly a file is prepared from OCMW to OCMW. In some OMCWs in Brussels, it may take nine months to investigate whether one is needy. With other OCMWs this takes three months. That's too bad. Madam Secretary, perhaps you can arrange with Minister Ducarme the agreement that the OCMWs must respond quickly. It would also be good if you would inform the people in this group, possibly by letter, that they can also join the OCMW. If they do not know that they can go to the OMCW for a surplus, they may not go there, which does not mean that they are not needy. I hope that you can take that into account and look at it together with Minister Ducarme so that we can reach that group, which is not particularly large.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u59	I'll ask the question. I'm not saying that all OCMWs are running at the same speed. They know this best, some of them are already known, but I will ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u60	The life labourers are indeed known at the OCMW. However, these are people with disability benefits who may never have recourse to the OMCW. They do not know that and have not yet taken the step towards the OMCW. They do not have the extra 50 euros at the moment, while a wager gets the extra 50 euros. That's too bad. We should be able to reach that group. It is a pity that we have not been able to give them the EUR 50 extra directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, that was a good end to the work of our committee, namely an exchange of views until the end. We have come to the end of our series of questions. Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. Colleagues and staff, I hope you will all have a safe and relaxing holiday. Madam Secretary, you have expressed the hope of a holiday without stress. However, let us all take a relaxing vacation when we can, but stand by whenever necessary. Thank you all and enjoy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u62	Mr Bertels, thank you very much for taking charge of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-17-55-commissie-ic247x.u63	You're welcome.
