ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u1	Test Purchases denounced on 1 August 2019 the rise in prices in the telecoms sector. Since 2014, twice a year, the Belgian telecom market has seen a steady rise in prices. For example, on August 4, Telenet announced an increase of 1.87% on all its subscriptions. It is not the only operator to impose such price changes: customers of VOO, Proximus and Scarlet have also been confronted with it in recent years. The constant and almost simultaneous increase in prices beyond inflation by all these telecom operators is challenging. Moreover, when considering the figures of the IBPT, it appears that large operators favour all-in packages in order to discourage operator change, so much so that consumers can pay for services they do not need. Minister, my questions are as follows. Could you tell me if any action is planned to curb these annual price increases imposed on consumers? If so, what are they and when could they be applied? How do you analyse the captive effect of all-in packs that reduces competition between operators? Has the IBPT addressed this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u2	Thank you for your question. First of all, best wishes for this year. I am well aware that the steady rise in prices beyond inflation applied by all telecom operators in Belgium is challenging. We are at the stage of reflection to change this state of affairs. In fact, the IBPT is the regulator responsible for this problem: it regularly monitors the price developments of Belgian telecommunications operators and also compares our evolution with that of neighbouring countries in order to see whether there are any price increases or not. In an open market economy, retail prices are generally determined by the market and competition therefore plays a role. Another rule that also plays out is that the stronger the competition, the better the prices. This is one of the elements that we have always put forward for the introduction of a fourth operator into the market. The IBPT has, among other things, taken other initiatives aimed, on the one hand, at stimulating competition between operators and, on the other hand, at informing and encouraging consumers to act and take charge of their personal choices. In order to promote competition, for example, various measures are imposed on operators considered to be in a dominant position (Proximus, Telenet and Voo). These operators are, for example, obliged to open their network to competing operators; as a result of this measure, consumers have the choice between more operators and a dynamic of competition by prices. Another important factor is the IBPT-induced fall in wholesale tariffs. Decreases have already occurred in 2018. In the first quarter of this year, a new decision on these wholesale rates for access to the cable network was taken: they will now be calculated in another way. I think the impact on the market will be enormous. According to provisional results, a further decline is expected by some services. The increasing competition is behind this. This demonstrates the advantage of introducing more competition into the market. Orange expects 260,000 customers on its network by the end of this year, representing a market share of about 5%. The introduction of additional competition can also help to achieve this objective. These examples show that the regulation of the IBPT does have an impact on wholesale prices and thus on the level of competition. There is a need to encourage consumers to look for the cheapest alternatives. Studies show that Belgium is quite inert in terms of telecommunications services and that technical and administrative obstacles are the factors which usually prevent it from changing operators. Here too, there is still work to be done. The IBPT has a long-standing rate simulator that allows consumers to compare prices and check availability of more advantageous offers. In my view, it is important to examine whether the introduction of a fourth operator into the market remains a possibility. I'm in favour of it. I think that with the introduction of 5G, we also have the opportunity to make real progress on this issue, not only for the benefit of the industry but also of the consumer. More competition leads to lower prices. Competition will also increase economic benefits for society as a whole, for consumers, for businesses and for SMEs. I hope it'll be faster than now. We are trying, despite current affairs – which is not easy – to advance this 5G and fourth operator issue because with this increased competition, we will again have a fall in prices. It is also true that consumers who benefit from a bundled offer are less likely to switch suppliers. The consumer is concerned that it is too complicated to transfer all products easily to the new supplier. The loss of customers decreases as the number of services purchased under a bundled offer increases. It's an important element. This is why the Easy Switch procedure was introduced to facilitate this change in provider for bundled services. Since the decision of the 2018 broadband market analysis, dominant cable operators have to offer a wholesale offer for the internet stand alone. It is also a new element that should allow alternative operators to offer cheaper offers and meet the expectations of the cord-cutter segment. This term refers to no longer using the television set while watching Netflix, etc. There, I think we have seen that alternatives to the all-in package have been developed and are being launched by different operators (Orange, a spin-off by Telenet and Voo). There are elements to increase competition and provide more opportunities for the consumer. The real turnaround is likely to take place only when the limitation of data volumes also disappears for cheaper tariff plans. In Europe, Belgium and Iceland are the only countries where fixed services with a download limit are still available. These limits will not disappear on their own, I think. It is only under the pressure of greater competition that this can be done. Again, we have every interest in introducing a fourth player to increase this competition. My answer is quite broad, but measures are being taken to facilitate consumer decision-making at a lower telecom price. On the other hand, we also manage the infrastructure and try to increase competition in the market, to have better prices and more opportunities for the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for this fairly comprehensive answer. I'm glad to hear you say you're in favour of a fourth player, because it's the lack of competition in the telecoms market that causes these price increases. We also know that in Belgium, one in two subscribers has an oversized contract in relation to their actual needs and that we are lagging behind in the ranking of good value for money. You talked about the number of operator switches: it is true that customers with an all-in pack in 2018 were 2.6% compared to 5.7% in 2017. In 2018, the dual pack rate (two services) was 17.8%. I am quite satisfied with your answer and thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Patrick Prévot's 55001827C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u5	Mr Minister, it has been many years since Test Achats denounced the prices of mobile subscriptions in Belgium. In the Netherlands, France, Germany, Spain, Great Britain and many other countries, consumers pay less for their mobile phone bills. For many Belgians, having access to a GSM subscription becomes a luxury, while this mode of communication is necessary to be able to maintain a social and professional life. In Belgium there is a social rate for telephone and internet services. However, as far as telephony is concerned, this tariff originally covers only fixed lines. However, since 2018, there has been a European directive establishing an electronic communications code. Mr Minister, my first question will be: Can mobile communications now come under the social tariff? Finally, the Sudpresse Group stated on 13 December that 33% of the people with the lowest incomes are unaware of the existence of a social telecommunications tariff. The automatic application of this tariff to the persons concerned is a technically impossible measure. Could you please indicate, however, what measures have been adopted in recent years to facilitate the granting of this tariff? Have information campaigns been conducted to the target audience? Have you had any feedback and figures on the impact of these potential campaigns? Finally, have budgets been planned in this regard, whether by the IBPT regulator or the SPF Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u6	Mr President, dear colleague, thank you for this question. You know that under the new Electronic Communications Code, social tariffs can be applied to mobile telephony services, but only if this is necessary to ensure the full participation of consumers in social and economic life. It should therefore be noted as an indication that mobile telephone charges have been characterised in recent years by a downward trend and that, therefore, the absence of a social reduction does not compromise the accessibility of the end-user. There are, for example, zero-euro subscriptions that charge for real consumption, five-euro subscriptions, eight-euro subscriptions...There are therefore a number of solutions on the market. Playing online video games, watching movies via the internet or other activities involving high consumption are not activities within the scope of the universal service. We have to take that into account. In recent years, the IBPT has developed an application (STTS – social telephone tariff) to partially automate the granting of social tariffs. This application now allows consumers to apply for a social tariff directly from their operator. The latter encodes applications in the application, which uses the different authentic sources that are available. Some sources are not yet available, as they are not yet encoded as authentic sources. This is the next step: when all the elements are available via authentic sources, we can automate the whole process. The IBPT makes the information available on its website. I can give you the link. As far as CPAS are concerned, some have contacted again to ask for details on the content of the certificates to be provided to the IBPT, but we have generally had few feedback on this subject. The IBPT also has an annual budget for the STTS application which allows, as mentioned above, automatic verification of legal conditions. A complete automation of the allocation of social tariffs would involve the development of new tools incorporating the specificities of automatic allocation of social tariffs with genuine sources.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. I was questioned by the figures provided by the IBPT indicating that 224,273 people benefited from the social rate as of September 30, 2019, with a fall in the last ten years. In 2011, this figure was 386,137 persons. The survey found that 33% of respondents in the lowest income group were unaware of the existence of a social rate. Is there not a lack of communication? You mentioned that the IBPT had implemented an online application. Since these are vulnerable audiences, should we not try to simplify the procedure? In addition, you say that you have not received much feedback from CPAS about the certification applications to be completed. Should we not instead better communicate the existence of this social tariff and propose administrative simplification?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u8	We want to automate the whole process. It will no longer be necessary to apply, and any person eligible for this tariff will be notified automatically. We are implementing this. At present, some genuine sources are still missing and some forms are still required to access this tariff. We should be able to abolish this procedure in the years to come. If we create more authentic sources, it will be easier to have access to certain types of data in order to be able to grant this social rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roberto D'Amico was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u10	In my question, Minister, I refer to the previous conclusions on 5G of the European Telecoms Council. It is said that from the European Union, probably the European Commission, a kind of 5G toolkit will be published with many tools that Member States can then use. In a written answer to my question from a few days ago, I suppose written by your services before the end of the year 2019, it says that the toolkit is expected by the end of the year. Meanwhile we are January and there is no toolkit. Mr. Secretary, do you know why the toolkit isn't here yet? Why is there a delay? Do you have any information or any indication as to what will be in it? We also sometimes see the announcement 'unrested vendors' appearing. The U.S. Department of State says very clearly that it is about China for them. Is that how you see it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u11	Mr President, Mr Freilich, that toolbox was expected by the end of last year, but it has been delayed. I have been told that it will be published this month. So this amounts to a few weeks' delay and no longer. I don't have any information on the reason for the delay. The development of the toolbox is actually based on the coordinated risk analysis carried out by the different Member States last year. In that analysis, they identified a number of issues that should be part of the toolbox in which the answers to the challenges should come. That toolbox should include potential measures that can address the different risks associated with the deployment of 5G. I've always argued for two things. Firstly, a level playing field where everyone has to meet the same requirements. In my view, this also solves the discussion about untrusted vendors. If everyone has to meet the same level of security and surveillance, it is clear that Chinese vendors and vendors from other countries will also have to comply. A level playing field is essential for me. Secondly, a European approach remains necessary. We are in a European digital market. In fact, there is a global market, but the necessary regulations can be introduced at European level. It is therefore important to stay in touch with the countries of the European Union to agree on a joint roll-out of 5G, with its limitations. There is little point in us doing things other than France, the Netherlands or Germany. I believe that we need a standardized roll-out of 5G in this area, so that we can guarantee the same security throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I have a few comments to make. A programme throughout the EU is indeed preferable, but you know, as I do, that security is an individual competence of the Member States. This means that only recommendations can be made from Europe, and that is not the same as commitments. We now see that each European country is doing its own thing. France has adopted a specific legislation specific to the Paris region. The Netherlands came up with something new last month. I therefore believe that a joint roll-out is a good idea, but it does not seem immediately enforceable to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u13	That is why we have many bilateral contacts, so that we can at least make agreements with neighbouring countries. The toolbox should allow us to roll out the same type of measures at European level. I believe that we must continue along this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-08-55-commissie-ic084x.u14	The last question is from Mr Kir. We received no word from him. His question No. C55002407 therefore lapses.
