ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome Mr Goffin, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the update we have requested in response to Mr Dallemagne's resolution, all the more so because he has also visited Jordan, Iraq and Lebanon. First we get the Minister's explanation and then we have an exchange of views. The merged questions in this area are linked to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I visited the Levant from 2 to 5 February, which led me successively to Iraq – Baghdad – and Iraqi Kurdistan, Jordan and Lebanon. The delegation consisted of my heads of foreign and defence cabinets, one of my advisers, my Middle East Director, my secretarial director and my spokesperson. Two journalists from the print media were also present. I would like to share with you the highlights of this visit by ensuring that there are elements to answer a number of questions that some have already addressed to me. Other questions may come in the course of the discussion. During my visit to Iraq, I first had political contacts in Baghdad with President Salih and with my fellow foreign minister Alhakim. In addition to the various aspects of bilateral relations between Belgium and Iraq, the main focus was on the fight against Daech and the regional dossiers. As regards the fight against Daesh, I agreed with my Iraqi colleague that this battle has not yet been fought and that we must avoid Daesh rising again. The work of the coalition must therefore continue. Minister Alhaakim also thanked me for the role our country plays in that context. He also considered that, despite the parliamentary resolution adopted in the Iraqi Parliament at the beginning of January and calling for the departure of foreign troops, the international coalition against Daesh still has a role to play, just like NATO. The coalition and NATO are currently examining the form in which they can continue their activities in Iraq. Meanwhile, NATO defence ministers took the decision in principle to transfer part of the tasks of the international coalition against Daesh in Iraq to the NATO mission in Iraq, NMI, formally endorsed by an exchange of letters with NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg. I then addressed the internal situation in Iraq, including the many protests that have been shaking the country for many months, as well as the issue of human rights, with a particular focus on the death penalty. J'y reviendrai. A new central government in Iraq is in the making. I have expressed the hope that that government will address the major challenges facing the country. Belgium makes an important contribution in terms of humanitarian aid and stabilisation of the country. My Iraqi interlocutors repeatedly underlined the need for respect for Iraq's stability and sovereignty. My visit to Baghdad also provided an opportunity to exchange views on Iran, Syria, the Middle East peace process and on the possibility of establishing a regional security architecture, for which our country has made proposals at EU level, unmécanism de résolution pacifique des conflits. Finally, a series of bilateral dossiers were discussed, such as the further strengthening of our economic links and the reopening of a Belgian representation in Baghdad. With regard to the presence of Belgians on the spot, 88 compatriots are currently registered in the consular records of the Embassy of Belgium in Amman – which, I would remind you, is competent for Iraq – of which 78 have dual Belgian-Iraqian nationality. No specific requests were received from our fellow citizens despite the situation, which remains rather unstable. Street protests continue and are aimed primarily at ending corruption, calling for more jobs and demanding better provision of services such as water and electricity. The appointment on 1 February last of the new minister Allaoui does not seem to appease the demonstrators. During my visit to Erbil, the capital of the Iraqi Kurdish region, I had contacts with President Barzani and Prime Minister Masrour Barzani, as well as with the Foreign Minister Dizayee. Almost the same topics were discussed in Baghdad. During my contacts in Iraqi Kurdistan, I asked my interlocutors about the relations between Baghdad and Erbil, whose importance I was able to stress. The Kurdish authorities have declared their commitment to the stability of Iraq and have referred to the provisions of the Constitution which regulate relations between the central government and the Kurdistan Autonomous Region. For the Kurds, respect for the constitutional provisions is the element that will guide their relations with the new central government. As far as their relations with Turkey are concerned, they are quite intense, particularly in economic terms. Kurdish concerns remain, however, due to military tensions with the PKK, which has led to Turkish strikes. The presence of the PKK in Iraqi Kurdistan is a problem and the group, even if it is not considered by them as a terrorist group, must therefore leave the region. While understanding Turkish concerns, the Turkish military incursion into the north-east of Syria is considered a matter of concern, as it has increased the instability of the region, has led to a resurgence of terrorist acts and has caused a new wave of Syrian refugees to Kurdistan. After Iraq, I went to Jordan where I met with my Foreign Affairs counterpart, Mr.Safadi, who stressed the excellence of our bilateral relations and the strong link between our respective sovereigns. For my part, I have highlighted the recent creation in Aman of a new Belgian-Jordanian business and friendship association aimed at strengthening economic and commercial relations between our two countries. We both agreed on the need to continue the fight against Daesh. Minister Safadi also referred to the Aqaba process, an initiative launched by the King of Jordan. We have addressed the Middle East peace process. My interlocutor has made it clear that Jordan rejects the deal of the American century despite pressure on its country to accept it. I recalled the principled position of Belgium and the European Union in favour of a two-State solution based on international law. With regard to Syria, Minister Safadi was very concerned about the situation in the South as well as about the regime's offensive in Idlib, in particular because of the major humanitarian impact of the violence on the affected Syrian civilian population. First and foremost, it is the responsibility of the two belligerent parties to ensure that the violence stops and to do everything possible to comply with the previous agreements on the Idlib region. In addition, all warring parties have an absolute obligation to respect international humanitarian law. The bombing of civilian infrastructure such as schools and medical centres is never legitimate, even in the context of the fight against terrorism. I completed my mission in Jordan with a visit to a refugee camp near the Syrian border, where I was able to speak with UNHCR representatives as well as with a Syrian family and an Iraqi family. With regard to the humanitarian assistance of the United Nations to Syria, Belgium played a key role in the search for an agreement at the level of the Security Council. Although I regret that we have not been able to get everything we wanted, the points of passage removed from the resolution did not concern cross-border humanitarian aid to Idlib, so that the remaining crossing points are sufficient to continue to support the population in this area of the country. Of course, the delivery of humanitarian aid to Idlib will depend on the ability of the various actors to access people in need. Such access could, in the event of a non-renewal of the aid mandate or new concessions, be compromised. However, I can assure you that Belgium will ensure that it continues its dialogue with all the members of the Security Council and all the countries involved in the resolution on cross-border humanitarian aid, in preparation for the next renewal in July. Our role as a co-plum is first of all to facilitate the debate in an impartial manner. Of course, it remains to be seen how the humanitarian situation will develop in the coming months, but there is no doubt that humanitarian needs will guide our country's efforts. My visit to the Levant was punctuated by a short visit to Beirut, where I met Prime Minister Hassane Diab and Minister of Foreign Affairs Nassif Hitti, both in office for only a few weeks. Prime Minister Diab explained to me that the priority of his new government will be to regain the confidence of the Lebanese people and to find solutions to the current financial crisis. His declaration of government was approved by the Council of Ministers the day after my visit. A few days later, the government received the confidence of Parliament. A road map has been drawn up to reverse the problematic decisions of the past, with concrete actions and a precise timetable for implementation in the short, medium and long term. The fight against corruption and the recovery of diverted public funds is at the top of the Lebanese government's priorities over the next hundred days. This government seems to take seriously the intentions of the 2018 Economic Conference for Development, including the reform package that had been proposed. As such, an inter-ministerial committee for the implementation of the Cedar programme has been set up. For my part, I strongly encouraged the implementation of structural reforms, which was also at the heart of my meeting with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In bilateral contacts at various levels, we have already stressed the importance of remaining responsive to the demands of the population, protecting freedom of expression and acting against corruption. Our country, as a Member State of the European Union, fully supports the declarations of 11 December and 12 February last made by the International Support Group for Lebanon, in which the European Union participates, calling for a return to stability and respect for the right to demonstrate peacefully. This request for respect for the right to demonstrate peacefully was part of a joint statement on 30 October last in the statement by the European Union in Beirut and the European Union ambassadors. The need for respect for the rule of law and the proper functioning of justice are also stressed in the Association Agreement between the European Union and Lebanon. Finally, I would like to inform you that my administration met with the Lebanese Ambassador on 11 February. During the interview, we asked for more explanation of the violent actions of some Lebanese security services. As I mentioned earlier, one of the objectives of my visit to the Levant, undoubtedly without red wire, was to inform me on the ground, with as many actors as possible, of the situation of the Foreign Terrorism Fighters (FTF) and of the situation of children in the camps in the north-east of Syria. On the return of my visit, I reiterated in plenary the Belgian Government's determination to work resolutely for the return of all children in the Al-Hol and Al-Roj camps. Such a repatriation operation is not improvising, but must be carefully prepared. I will not dwell on this one any more. However, the whole government is, of course, duly and regularly informed. Let us not be mistaken, it has nothing to do with repatriation from Turkey! A return operation from Turkey took place in January. The four oldest children of Tatiana Wielandt and Bouchra Abouallal came back to Belgium. As is well known, the mothers were arrested by the Turkish authorities and the children were then placed in a Turkish institution. As soon as it was clear that the four oldest children were allowed to leave the country, my services organised repatriation in consultation with the competent services in Belgium and Turkey. The repatriation happened because the center where the children were could no longer take care of them. In addition, the mothers had given permission for the trip to Belgium. The mothers, however, wanted the two youngest children to stay in prison with them. The same return procedure could not be applied in Syria, because the situation is very different. During my visit to the region, it was clear that repatriation from Syria was not easy, partly because of the changed security situation on the ground and the position of the Kurdish authority in Syria, which repeatedly informed us that children cannot be separated from their mothers. With regard to adults, the Government's position remains in favour of a solution whereby FTFs are tried in the region, where they are serving their sentences with respect for human rights – including the right to a fair trial and the prohibition of torture. Belgium, of course, remains opposed to the death penalty. In this regard, it was reiterated to me by my Iraqi interlocutors that this sanction was an integral part of their legal arsenal and that its application would not suffer any exceptions – including with regard to foreign FTFs. Nevertheless, we are continuing our contacts with several European countries to analyse the lines of judgement in Iraq. We also took note of the announcement by the Syrian Kurdish authorities that the FTF – both male and female – should be tried in Rojava courts. If the Syrian Kurds do not, a priori, apply the death penalty, it is obviously too early for Belgium to consider any support for this initiative, which raises many questions: what legislation will they apply – local or international, or even a mixture of the two – and what about the recognition of judgments by a non-State entity (to name only these two questions)? Belgium remains in contact with its European partners most concerned in order to discuss it as soon as possible, as I was still able to do in Munich no later than this Saturday. Then, what is planned on the United Nations side? UNITAD was established by a Security Council resolution following an explicit request from the Iraqi government. He is responsible for gathering evidence of crimes committed by members of the Islamic State in Iraq. Our country's cooperation with UNITAD remains very limited by the fact that no Belgian fighter is active in Iraq; most Belgian fighters in Syria, where UNITAD has no jurisdiction. In addition, the General Assembly, by resolution UNITAD, mandated the collection, consolidation, preservation and analysis of evidence of violations of international humanitarian and human rights law in Syria and the preparation of cases to facilitate criminal proceedings in national, regional or international courts – all of which, of course, are in accordance with international law. Finally, the International Commission of Inquiry on Syria was established by the UN Human Rights Council, with the support of Belgium. This commission of inquiry works closely with the IIIM (International, Impartial and Independent Mechanism). The Belgian legal framework allows our judicial authorities to cooperate with both this body and UNITAD. Colleagues, this concludes my presentation, which I wanted as complete as possible, which perhaps explains its length. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive statement. You have rightly taken the necessary time. I had asked a question about the offer of the Syrian Kurds to prosecute FTFs. You have already replied in part to it in your speech. So you've been in touch. You have outlined the preliminary contours. In addition, does the Kurdish authority wish to prosecute only men? Is that also about female FTFs? What is the situation here? Do you think that a legal system can be created in Northern Syria that can operate independently of the Syrian regime? What is the relationship with the Syrian regime, taking into account, among other things, the changed situation on the ground after the Turkish invasion? The United States has indicated that they are providing information and technical support to give the fighters on the ground a trial. Have you offered the Kurds certain forms of cooperation? If so, under what conditions? You also spoke just now about the situation of the IS children, where fortunately you were able to have some children repatriated, because the mothers gave permission to do so. Two other children have stayed with their mother, though. We are now talking about the situation in Turkey, because they did not want to renounce their children. You say that repatriation from Syria is more difficult for a number of reasons. In the margins of the New York meeting, you had a discussion with the United Nations Deputy Secretary-General for Legal Affairs, Mr Miguel de Serpa Soares. You also gave an interview in the margins, in which you talked about bringing back 42 children with a suspected Belgian link. I asked this question during the plenary session in connection with the ruling of the Dutch-speaking judge of Brussels. To what extent do you think we are obliged to return actively? The judgment is about making the necessary documents available. Can you tell us what the state of play is in this respect? Has the Americans been contacted with the specific question of what support they can give to a possible Foreign Affairs mission in order to provide the right documents to the children? Has there ever been a formal request for support to the United States? Russia appears to have become the major game distributor in Northern Syria. We understand that Russia, Moscow, can conclude agreements with the Kurdish authorities or even force them and impose them unilaterally. It is undoubtedly a delicate question, but has the government ever considered using diplomatic contacts with Moscow or engaging in dialogue with Moscow in the case in question? In the Munich Security Conference you would have had a meeting with France and Germany about a common approach to the return of children. Do you see any added value in that consultation? Finally, with regard to the humanitarian situation, where we are the penholder in the Security Council together with Germany and Kuwait, we see direct confrontations between Turkey and the Syrian army, not even between proxy's but directly between the two armies. What are the possibilities in that situation according to our representatives in New York? What is the formal position on Turkey's attempts to install its own third buffer zone? Turkey remains an ally in NATO. We note that Turkish soldiers are dying in Syrian shelling. There is also a large concentration of troops. How can we prevent us, as Turkey's ally, from being involved in the conflict through Clause 5 as a result of NATO engagements?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u4	First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you for your debriefing on your work visit. You mentioned a lot of themes, it was very interesting. I would particularly like to address the humanitarian situation in Idlib. What more can Belgium do there than it has already done? Your statement raises a number of questions. Firstly, you say that there will be a more extensive NATO mission in Iraq. Can you tell us what the Belgian position was on this? Has Belgium highlighted a number of possible risks in this respect? Does it mean that American soldiers will also be active in that NATO mission in Iraq? After all, the Iraqi Parliament, following the expulsion of Soleimani from the Iraqi Government, insisted that it should ask the American troops to leave the country. I did not think that the Iraqi Government had already formally asked the United States to withdraw the military. But if that question were to arise, it would of course be bizarre for the US military to withdraw bilaterally and at the same time for a more extensive NATO mission in the same Iraq with possibly American military as well. I would have liked you to give me a reflection on the situation in Iraq. Do you have the impression that the Iranian influence on Iraq has increased after the elimination of Soleimani? Is the Iraqi Government still a reliable partner for us? Has anything changed there? The second theme concerns the IS children. Mr De Roover referred to the Russian operation, in which a number of children were repatriated, almost all from Al-Hol. The context is obvious: a Brussels court forced the Belgian government to make an effort to return children from Syrian fighters to our country. We've got periodic penalty payments hanging over our heads. The Belgian Government's position is, with permission, surrealistic. You are actually in a position that cannot be achieved in practice for weeks and months. You continue to refer to trial in the region, then in Iraq. In your introduction, however, you yourself admit that Iraq does not want to abandon the use of the death penalty and that this is a problem for our country. This situation has been the same for weeks, months and no progress has been made. In other words, the humanitarian situation of children in these camps remains the same. There is very little perspective there, except that they are brought back to Belgium. The Russians have managed to perform such an operation, even without parents. I would therefore like to join with the question of whether there is a possibility of diplomatic cooperation or contacting Russia for a joint exercise of child repatriation. I have a second question in that connection. The Kurdish authorities would intend to bring Belgian fighters to justice. Then what will happen to the children of tried parents and how will you ensure that Belgian children do not end up in inhumane situations when their parents are convicted? Will a conviction of their parents affect the chances of the children being repatriated? I would like to end with my question on the humanitarian situation in Idlib. Fortunately, the media's attention for this is increasing. The humanitarian situation there is deteriorating. The military offensive of Assad and Russia continues unabated. More and more Syrians are really trapped like rats and are trying to find security in Syria, towards the north and the northwest. Some of them are trying to reach the so-called safe zone, close to the Turkish border. Fortunately, the border crossings from Turkey are open to humanitarian goods. The humanitarian situation is dramatic: many are unable to reach that safe zone. We've seen pictures of babies freezing to death from the cold, looking for safety. Belgium and your administration have already done a lot. We have already made a diplomatic effort for a diplomatic exit with a cease-fire. Will we, as chairman of the Security Council, make another attempt this month? Will we take a new initiative to bring about a ceasefire in Idlib by means of a resolution with an international monitoring mechanism? That's the diplomatic road. We also believe that a coordinated effort by the countries of the European Union currently in the UN Security Council is needed. Do you have more information on President Erdogan's intention to organise a summit on Idlib, together with a number of European Member States, in particular Germany and France? He announced that a while ago. It has not yet happened, but it could be a good idea from the European Union to ask for this initiative to be widened and not only for Germany and France to be involved, but for the whole of the European Union to sit at the table. Are you, as the Belgian Foreign Minister, prepared to pulse Mr Borrell if he wants to put that piste on the table? If President Erdogan does not take those steps, perhaps the European Union itself can proactively take such an initiative and bring a few people around the table to see what is possible. It is often said that the European Union has no weight. Of course, that's wrong. We have a very strong economic leverage. It's just that it's time we put it in place. Everyone is interested in trading with the European Union. That could be a leverage. Finally, last week OCHA requested an additional contribution of USD 336 million from donors, including Belgium. In recent weeks, OCHA has released several tens of millions of dollars from the UN Central Emergency Response Fund for urgent humanitarian aid in Syria. Fortunately, the border crossings between Turkey and Syria are still open to humanitarian goods. Will the Belgian Government release additional funds for that UN humanitarian emergency plan for Northwest Syria? If I am not mistaken, Germany decided to respond to this question a long time ago by releasing several tens of millions. How will our country support the crucial functioning of Syrian NGOs? Can they be heard in the discussions in the UN Security Council? Belgium is now President of the UN Security Council. Would you support these NGOs in some way to speak and resound their testimonies with a larger megaphone? The Syrian NGOs are partners of the United Nations and humanitarian relief operations there. They're working with these NGOs. It's mostly about transportation. Already, these NGOs provide transport by truck to the safe zones for the many Syrian families who leave on foot, but get stuck and do not reach the Turkish border. However, all this costs a great deal of money. That is why there is now that question from OCHA to release additional money.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u5	Minister, thank you for your report on this important move. I have two questions about Iraq. The first is in the context of the resolution that the Iraqi Parliament voted on 5 January, in which the Shiite parliamentary majority voted this text and not the whole of Parliament. We know that this resolution is non-binding and that it is addressed to a government that resigns itself. The context is special but nevertheless represents a significant symbol. With the vote on this resolution, we can look at the Trump administration's growing determination to disengage from the region for the benefit of other regions around the world. In any case, as Donald Trump himself says, it is no longer a matter of wasting his time in endless wars that have no interest in the United States. It's his analysis. On 12 and 13 February, a NATO meeting was held to set up NATO-ME (NATO-Middle East), a special NATO mission that would receive the expertise or missions of the US-led anti-Daesh coalition. Minister, how do you see this transfer of powers? What would be the precise framework for these NATO-ME missions? What would be the extent of its deployment? What would be Belgium's role in this context? What general reading of this mission have you and how do you envisage it without the Americans who have played a major role in the region? I don't make a value judgment on this, but it's always a major actor who will leave. It should be replaced by maintaining or not maintaining the objectives, it should be up to you to tell us. Moreover, the Iraqi street is particularly evident in the southern part of the country. The claims are social and national in nature. Protesters say they don't want Americans or Iranians anymore. One point of concern to me, which should be stressed, concerns Moqtada Al-Sadr's attitude to the demonstrations. He initially supported them before disassociating himself in a very strong or sometimes violent way in recent weeks. Through the attitude of the Sadrists, I think we can deduce a reading of Iran's role. Indeed, Iran has taken over entire parts of Iraqi society. Did you feel that in your contacts and in your dialogue with the Iraqi authorities? Did you perceive a takeover of the country by Iran that would take place, as in a game of communicating vases, with the decline of American influence in the country? How do you feel about that? The other part of my intervention concerns FTFs. I have no doubt that you are mobilizing all the efforts necessary to repatriate the children. That's our position. We have always been in favour of the repatriation of children and we hope that you will succeed, in a context that is indeed difficult from a security point of view as well as from a judicial point of view. As far as adults are concerned, you have recalled the importance of holding two objectives in hand: on the one hand, to judge them on the spot, at the scene of their possible crimes, and, on the other hand, to guarantee them a fair trial at the same time. For us, the only way to achieve these two objectives is an international tribunal. When we say that, we also know how difficult this kind of device is to put in place. Could you clarify on the basis of the contacts you have had, how you intend to guarantee that the trial will be held there in conditions that respect the fundamental rights of the accused. It's an equation that's not easy to solve. In this connection, recently, I discovered a United Nations service, which, in any case in my personal reflection, brings a missing piece of evidence to the mechanism of ensuring a fair trial and, at the same time, being able to try the accused on the basis of facts. What has always bothered me in the idea of bringing back adults is our inability to guarantee their trial on the basis of the facts they allegedly committed and, therefore, to take the risk of sentencing them to only five years in prison for membership of a terrorist organization. For me, this is very problematic and it justifies their current non-repatriation. However, I have discovered the existence of a United Nations agency to promote accountability for the crimes committed by Daesh. Its mission is to gather documentary and digital evidence. I received the first report from this investigation team. It was expected that the system would be installed by the end of August 2019. He is therefore supposed to have taken office. This unit is competent to collect physical and biological forensic equipment, including at mass grave sites, with the aim of gathering a series of material evidence that would then be made available to courts and tribunals that wish to do so. Minister, have you been informed of the existence of this service? If so, have you come into contact with this one? What is the extent of your potential exchanges? Have you ever been able to collaborate with him on files relating to Belgian FTFs? If we are able to gather evidence that can help us organize trials based on tangible evidence, then each other's positions could evolve. Thus, a fair trial could be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u6	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for this rather long overview of your mission, which has finally been very broad. For obvious security reasons, we could not be aware of all the countries that would be the subject of this visit. I understand this, given the current context, particularly in Iraq and Iraqi Kurdistan. I asked you several questions. But in the light of what has just been exposed, these may no longer be fully up-to-date. I shall therefore confine myself to a few questions of a more general nature in relation to your presentation. Minister, we have had lengthy discussions on the situation in Erbil. Have you had an opportunity to discuss with the Prime Minister the recent events we are experiencing, including the adoption of the resolution in the Iraqi Parliament calling on American troops to leave Iraqi territory? Then, Minister, I would have liked to know your feeling about what might be some Iranian influence in Iraq after the events that led to the death of Iranian General Soleimani. I know this is not a very diplomatic issue. But I still put it down. As a parliamentarian, I allow myself to do so. In the same region, a new NATO mission has recently been mentioned. Could Belgium take part in this? In what way? We know the different missions we've been involved in in the past. We also know our knowledge of military cooperation, certainly with regard to our NATO missions. Minister, can you tell us a little more about this possible mission? What would be Belgium's involvement? I'm trying to stay in the area. You also mentioned your visit to a refugee camp. I myself had the opportunity to make this kind of visit during a parliamentary mission to Turkey. We were obviously very impressed by their organization, but also by the mass of people who were there. The camps we visited were located on the Syrian and Turkish borders. They were open. I would have liked to know how you felt about the current situation in the refugee camps. We know that recent events have contributed to the re-establishment of other camps. I would like to know how you feel about the humanitarian conditions there. What assistance can the international community expect? It is well known that the United Nations has been a guarantor of some assistance in the region for peacekeeping purposes. How could our country, perhaps with other collaborations that would be discussed within the government, move forward on this issue? I'll return to your visit to Iraq. You have just mentioned in your presentation the possibility of establishing new cooperation, particularly with the Kurds present in northern Iraq. It was in the right line of your predecessor, who had always been keen to exploit the possibilities of pacification in the region. It had to go through a certain self-determination of the peoples, who must be able to choose their destiny. I consider this to be going in the right direction. However, I would like to know, Mr Minister, whether you have taken or intend to take, in parallel, useful and necessary contacts, as we must always have with the Turkish authorities? It is not an easy thing and I can see how difficult it is, but I also think it is necessary. I have one final part of the question, about possible repatriations. I know that you have already been questioned in plenary on this subject, after your mission on the spot. Since then, it has been known, and some of my colleagues have mentioned it, that there is still no certainty as to how this issue of repatriation will or will have to evolve. What is certain is that we must in any case consider the possibility of repatriating children from the region. In this regard, I have read what other countries such as Germany and Russia have succeeded in doing. I would like to know whether these are actions that have been coordinated in relation to other countries with nationals in the region, as is the case with us, or whether we have any other information on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u7	Minister, many things have already been said, I will try to avoid repetition of certain elements. I will just remind you about the situation of children's repatriations that this is a very complicated and delicate situation. In view of the exchanges and information you have had, we can see that the position Belgium has been taking for some time is complicated on the ground. What opportunities are envisaged to enforce the 2017 decision to repatriate these children? As for judgements, the PTB insists that these terrorist supporters be tried and punished in the most severe manner for the crimes they have committed. What possibilities have been envisaged at this level following the responses given by the Iraqi government? How do we imagine the future, if the solution of an on-site judgment is retained? This option seems to us to be the best in that it is on the spot that the gathering of evidence is the easiest and the easiest. However, there should be a guarantee that these trials will be conducted with respect for human rights. I am thinking in particular of the question of the death penalty, which is a problem. What are the possibilities for such a process? Discussions had taken place on that subject and proposals had been put forward, such as the establishment of an international tribunal. Is this solution still valid or is the establishment of such a tribunal too complicated? Could you please let me know your position as to how this question will be dealt with, given the complexity on the ground and the answers given by the Iraqi government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u8	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you a few additional questions. First of all, I would like to congratulate you. It was important to get there quickly. Indeed, much of our security is being played out in this part of the world. I therefore encourage you to increase the awareness of, and initiatives to end, this tragic and terrifying conflict, which has lasted for more than eight years and has claimed a very large number of victims, as everyone knows. My first question is about Idlib. Others have referred to it, a real carnage continues there, in a quasi-indifference – it must be said – because, in a certain way, it is found only "bad people". Indeed, between Bashar al-Assad and the Islamists supported by Turkey, there are not really any "good" among them that could support a model of society that we could also support. In the meantime, one and a half million people are trapped in this story. Once again, we are witnessing a laissez-faire on the part of the European Union, which is tragic. I would like more initiatives to be taken by the European Union and possibly by Belgium to try to stop this bloodbath, but I do not hear many voices in this direction. Mr Minister, could you tell me what additional initiatives Europe could take to stop what is happening in Idlib with the dramatic consequences it has for the local population? My second question concerns the Foreign Terrorism Fighters. Baghdad logically recalled that it would not judge the FTFs that are in Syria. Two Belgian nationals were sentenced to death in Baghdad. The Iraqi authorities have reminded you that they intend to execute all the citizens. Did they deliver a calendar? Do you know if these two people will be executed in the coming weeks or months? Did you intervene to avoid these executions, as your predecessor had indicated, that he would oppose those executions? Have you taken any steps in this direction? My third question concerns FTFs in Syria. I fully understand your comments on the limit on the legitimacy of the authorities in northern Syria, and in particular the question of what right they could judge these FTFs. I find that we are still going back to the impasse in which the policies of European governments in general are leading today. We are indeed in a situation that remains very problematic and probably very threatening for our own security, since today no one knows what to do with these nationals. They are in detention centres which are themselves located in a region subject to war and chaos. In your opinion, what is the likelihood that these detention centres will fall into the hands of people who could use these FTFs against our security? We know that Daesh has already indicated that he wants to put his hands on these FTFs, but we could also imagine that Bashar al-Assad, others or Turkey are changing the control of these FTFs for other gains, in terms of political or security, for example. We can also very well imagine that Turkey, in a certain way, legitimates its permanent occupation of northern Syria through the control of foreign FTFs. How do you assess this threat and risk? Since they cannot a priori be tried there and cannot be tried in Baghdad, have you also discussed this issue with the Erbil authorities? What is the attitude of the northern Kurdistan government, which enjoys some autonomy? Is he ready to play a role? Did you ask him to play one? Whether it is with regard to the trial, detention or transit of FTFs, do you see it playing a role in the future? My fourth question is quite different. There was this desire for a transfer of the formation of the Iraqi army from member states to NATO. I think that this is a way to make up the continuation of the American presence; it will no longer be the US presence but that of NATO, such as a cosmetic arrangement. If I understand correctly, the same forces will continue to form the Iraqi army. What will be Belgium's role in NATO? Today, the Belgian presence is symbolic. It is made up of liaison and information officers; it seems to me that there are four remaining in Erbil and perhaps those who were in Baghdad have returned. How will Belgium be involved in this NATO effort? Moreover, in the anti-Daesh coalition, there was the idea that the Belgian F-16 could operate again as early as 2020. With the assassination of Soleimani and the evolution of the situation, the maps were rebuffed. I imagine you discussed it with the Baghdad authorities. What are Belgium's plans today? I come to my last question. I have regularly argued that we should be heavily involved in the reconstruction of Iraq and Syria; indeed, we have been led to bombard areas, cities (Mosul, Raqqa) that are largely destroyed. It is extremely important that we also be present in the reconstruction effort. What part could the European Union and Belgium play? I know that financial flows through trust funds are being made. I strongly urge that there be a visibility of Europe there. This is politically very important. Most trust funds currently have no European visibility. It is important for Europe to demonstrate that, while it has been able to take action against the Islamic State, it is also able to participate visibly in the reconstruction effort in Iraq and Syria. Have any specific requests been addressed to you by the Kurdistan and Iraq authorities, whether in the area of investment or reconstruction, or even in the humanitarian field? Have any specific requests been sent to Belgium? And finally, we talked about 42 children to repatriate. Do you know today what proportion of children mothers would be willing to give up? Of these 42 children, who may be in line with the policy as defined by your government, to return only children without their mothers. I imagine you interviewed the Kurdistan authorities and the mothers and fathers. Can you tell us about the first contingent involved in a repatriation operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u9	Minister, thank you for your very enlightening briefing on your visit to the Middle East. I really applaud your approach to this visit to a region where the situation is serious and where, whether we like it or not, Western countries have a responsibility. It is therefore very important to activate our diplomacy in order to achieve solutions that are as respectful of human rights and our international commitments as possible. I asked you a more specific question about Lebanon because I am very concerned about the political situation there, even though a new government would have been formed. I would also like to look back on other questions that have been addressed to you regarding the situation of the Foreign Terrorism Fighters and their children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u10	President: Els Van Hoof. As far as Lebanon is concerned, you recalled, already in the committee on 21 January, that the priority of this new government is to regain the confidence of the Lebanese who were very dissatisfied with the political situation so far. This government has the ambition to find solutions to the serious economic crisis in Lebanon. I also hear that this government has an ambition to stem corruption in the country and that, therefore, a plan would be put in place for the next hundred days. But the Lebanese are not fooled. They know very well that some members of this new government are from the old one. Therefore, it is still the same ruling class that is in power when it is this ruling class that is criticized by protesters on the streets of Beirut. As far as the plan against corruption is concerned, it is very good, but I think it is too optimistic to say that within a hundred days, a plan against corruption can be put in place to stem long-standing corruption. So what are the structural measures announced by the new Lebanese government under this new anti-corruption plan? In this regard, what are the structural measures proposed by the new Lebanese Government in the framework of this new anti-corruption plan? It is our duty to make sure that this plan is not powder in the eyes. In view of the political situation in Lebanon, you mentioned an interview you had with the Lebanese Ambassador in Brussels on 11 February. During this interview, you reportedly asked for explanations of the violent actions taking place in the streets of Beirut, in particular against demonstrators who used their legitimate right to demonstrate. These actions were criticized in particular by Amnesty International, which spoke of a disturbing attack on freedom of assembly and association. Again, you say you asked for explanations, but you don't give them. What explanations have been given to you by this Ambassador? Is an investigation under way into the violence that has taken place? Are we now able to determine whether these are blunders committed by certain police officers or whether there has been, upstream, a watchword from the authorities and encouraging the police to prevent these demonstrations? In that case, the situation would be quite serious. I do not know whether there is the equivalent of a P committee in Lebanon such as we have in Belgium. I wanted clarification on these issues. I'm going back to the child repatriation file. From the beginning, the Belgian Government's position has been rather specific. I'm glad you're advocating for the return of all the children. It is a matter of humanity and security. This has been stressed repeatedly by court decisions, by the OCAM, by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. But when you plead for return, only children under the age of ten, I believe that this poses a problem under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. There is no distinction between children's age, the legal status of their parents, or the offences that may or may not be blamed for them. I therefore invite you to be very vigilant in this regard, especially since at the level of the United Nations High Council there is a case for giving priority to the protection of children in armed conflict. It is important that we, too, pay attention to the observance of this international convention on the rights of the child, whose thirty years have just been celebrated. I hear the practical and diplomatic difficulties you face in organizing this return. Fortunately, consultations are taking place with the other States of the European Union. I hope that, thanks to it, we will be able to find more concrete solutions. But yes, there is indeed an urgent need! All the more so since, as you know, the State has been sentenced to payment of periodic penalty payments. You went on appeal, but the hearing is scheduled for February 26, so next week. In this context, I simply wanted to ask you what other avenues of solutions you were considering should the decision condemning you to periodic penalty payments be confirmed. You've been thinking about some leads, but it must be noted that this is not enough today and that we will have to comply with the decision that requires us to work on consular assistance, on administrative documents, but also on active collaboration with the organisations working on the spot. You mentioned the visit of a refugee camp to Jordan with UNHCR. What is the view of such an organization in this regard? Finally, to go back to the fundamental question of the FTF's judgment, I am not at all surprised to hear, in the head of the Iraqi authorities, that their legal arsenal applies the death penalty and that it is out of the question of granting "preferential treatment", a derogatory regime with regard to the Foreign Terrorism Fighters. Nevertheless, this is very worrying, because at the same time, you continue to choose the solution that would try these people in the countries concerned. With regard to these countries, these regions, what guarantees could we obtain in terms of respect for human rights, the rights of defence, the legality of evidence, respect for human rights in the context of conditions of detention pending trial? I wanted to hear from you on all these issues. Otherwise, there is the possible establishment of an ad hoc international court. Such a jurisdiction – as we know – could not be established overnight. A mandate of the United Nations Security Council would ideally be required. Therefore, when Belgium is chairing the UN Security Council for a month, what is its position on the possibility of establishing this international jurisdiction and with what guarantees?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. You have already answered a number of questions. A number of things have already been mentioned by previous speakers, which I will not repeat. What I wanted to know about your visit to Iraq is whether you have talked about the trial of European IS fighters in Iraq? At the beginning of October 2019, Minister De Crem stated that the trial in Iraq should take place. At the end of October, the Iraqi Government declared itself unwilling to do so. They only wanted to bring their own ISIS fighters to justice. Has that attitude changed in the meantime? Or is there a willingness to try non-Iraq IS fighters in the region where they committed their acts? I have a question about the possible repatriation of the 42 children of Syrian fighters. How many children are over 10 years old?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u12	Minister, for the trial in Iraq, we are working with seven countries that are also dealing with FTFs coming from their countries. Are they still part of the initiative of the seven countries to which Belgium belongs to continue this trial in Iraq? There were diplomatic contacts to bring back the children of the FTFs. Why is it harder than it used to be to enter the grounds? This obviously has to do with the security situation, but has there been any change in the attitude of the Syrian Kurds towards diplomats from the European Union? Is there any hardening in relation to our countries in the European Union? I also have a great deal of concern about the humanitarian situation. There are 40 000 people on the run, women and children, after the operation of the Syrian army, Russia and Iran. In what way will the international community respond to this? Also in the camps the temperature always goes down. If the first children die, this will also have an impact on our attitude. How do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u13	Thank you very much for all your questions. Some overlap, others are more precise. I note in general and begin with my remarks that we all share the same will to allow the repatriation of children. I think it was important that we have an expression – which was done in plenary through my response – of a clarification of the fact that we are trying to repatriate all children. It's an important element. That decision was taken by the government in 2017 and confirmed in 2018. So that was the government with full powers. It was also decided that repatriation should take place without the mother. This decision was also taken by other countries of Core 7, for example France, the Netherlands and Germany. To this of course has been added the problem of judicial decisions, which I shall mention earlier. There are several elements. The repatriation of children from Syria is, of course, much more difficult than from Turkey, as everyone knows. We have indeed repatriated two children, but that was from Turkey. So that's a different history than when it comes to Syria. Another point: you will allow me to remain very discreet about the nature of our contacts, because we realize that the situation there is not simple. It was important for us, on the one hand, to express our position – both at the political level and at the level of the judicial decisions handed down at first instance for the time being – and, on the other hand, to understand as much as possible the position of the Iraqi authorities, the Iraqi Kurdistan Autonomous Region, Jordan and Lebanon. I note that many of you have noted that it was a good step to have been there to find out as much as possible, even if, of course, in three days, one cannot grasp a whole situation. Nevertheless, it was important – this is diplomacy – that the parties understand each other and understand the contingencies of each other that we have to deal with. Mr De Roover, you spoke about the ruling of the Dutch-speaking Chamber. This judgment speaks of consular assistance: we must make the documents available. Those documents are available in Erbil, as I said. That, of course, is not enough for repatriation. The government has therefore worked through the Foreign Affairs Department to make these documents available, particularly for these children. You know that we have appealed this entire judgment. It is important to note that the three judgments of the French-speaking chamber imposed the return of mothers and children. We have appealed and there have been periodic complaints, which are also the subject of an appeal on our part. The Dutch-speaking Chamber's judgment speaks of making documents available to enable repatriation, only of children. The mothers appealed and it was at that time that we appealed ourselves, in the meantime also from the judgment declaring the periodic penalty payments. Nevertheless, regardless of these decisions, we have considered that, as a matter of principle of humanity and equality, repatriation should be proposed for all children, with the obvious condition of the responsibility of mothers. Mothers remain holders of parental authority. They are, of course, invited to allow the repatriation of their children to live in conditions other than those of the camps, which are dreadful. Some of you went to camps in Jordan in particular. We can see that the conditions are already very difficult. I have been told that the living conditions in the Syrian camps have nothing to do with those in Jordan and are completely inhumane. It is true that our basic reasoning for the moment is to say to mothers: first, watch over the well-being of your children and allow for the repatriation of a State that wants to implement a policy of repatriation and well-being for your children. The message is clear. You asked me how many mothers answered positive. Honestly, I don't know. The proposal is made and known. They know that. They were able to write a letter a few days ago, an open letter with many regrets. I'm not going to say anything about that. I am speaking about the fact that they have the capacity today to say, in particular, to the Kurdish authorities in Syria, but above all to us, the Belgian State, that they agree first of all to ensure the well-being of their children and to allow them to return here to a welcoming territory which will set up structures to ensure that children no longer live in conditions as dreadful as their current living conditions. At the moment I have not had any steps in that direction, on the contrary. The buffer zone in northern Syria is still in force as far as I know. Mr De Vriendt, NATO remains in Iraq. We must now develop a new basis with the Iraqis. We must strike a good balance between, on the one hand, the work of the Coalition and NATO and, on the other hand, the Iraqi Government and troops. The Iraqi President had to take note of the resolution voted by Parliament under the conditions you know. Among Western countries, both in the coalition and in NATO, no one wants our troops to withdraw. Our presence is indispensable. One of you said so. Our presence makes sense and is useful for our own safety here. Unfortunately, there are other theatres of operations, it is not the only area of difficulty in the field of terrorism, but it is obviously important to be able to stay there, with a real activity different depending on the place of course. But the will is clearly that we remain operational there. This was further confirmed at the informal meeting of some ministers held in Munich on Saturday. Iran's influence on Iraq is very great, everyone knows that. We have now also received confirmation. The Iraqi authorities clearly say that they do not want Iraq to become a new warfield between Iran and the United States. They say it is very important that NATO and the Coalition remain active in Iraq. Iraq is committed to its sovereignty, while being well aware of internal difficulties. This country must be completely rebuilt. Public services do not work as they should. The complaints of the population are entirely legitimate. For example, entire neighbourhoods do not have access to water or electricity at certain times of the day. It is clear that it is very difficult in this context to ask the people to participate positively and smoothly in the reconstruction of the country. Is Russia a partner for children's repatriation? I don't think so. We have no contact with Damascus and we do not want to. You know that Russia is in contact with Damascus. I have already discussed humanitarian aid for Idlib in my introduction. We remain very concerned about the situation. Humanitarian aid for Syria is now going through Damascus. That's gonna cause a problem. As far as OCHA is concerned, that is the competence of my colleague De Croo. We need to structure the OCHA proposals properly. I can confirm that this is a very important issue for us. Mr Ben Achour, to answer your question about the role of the coalition, as I said, the aim is to remain present. Dialogue on needs and needs must be opened. But our will is to remain present, to be effective and useful because the fight is far from being won. In particular, it appears from my contacts with the Iraqi authorities that there are still pockets of terrorists active in Iraqi territory. Therefore, we should not think or suggest that the situation is completely normalized. Unfortunately, that is far from the case. With regard to the return of FTFs, it seems to me that we are all in favour of the repatriation of children. You have recognized the difficulty of acting in an operational manner. You have also acknowledged the difficulty associated with our internal legal situation. Of the women who are identified on the spot, not all have been convicted by default here. It is for the courts to intervene, if necessary, if there should be no judgement on the spot. In our country, the separation of powers is strictly enforced. However, it is up to the legislator to write the law. In my view, consideration should be given to how this right should be reviewed for the future. Nevertheless, we are working under the present conditions and facing a situation which we are trying to grasp in the most humane and concrete way possible. Madame Jadin, you spoke of diplomatic language. Today, I may not be using this language enough by telling you that the first responsible people are the mothers who put their children in terrible situations. It is not bad to remind him, when it comes to the responsibility of each other. It should not be suggested that our State is primarily responsible for this difficult situation, especially since we are making every effort to achieve decent living conditions for these children. We are well aware that ideally, a bond must not be broken between a child and his or her parents, whether it be the father or the mother. In the circumstances we know here, we are dealing with mothers – I dare say it and repeat it – who have placed their children in a particularly problematic situation. We're trying to get these kids out of this situation. And I'm glad I didn't hear "there's only..." here. Indeed, you mentioned precisely the operational difficulty we face in being able to act on the ground. I confirm that we are trying to work as hard as possible to resolve the situation. Some have asked us what has changed in the last few months, to which I reply that the conflict in Syria has evolved, that the Syrian army could move and that, in so doing, the situation in the camps could change. In addition, we speak as much as possible with our European partners. I have the feeling that they have the will to influence the situation as best they can. But we also fall into the sovereignty of States in relation to their own reality. For example, the French and Dutch carried out an operation before the Turkish invasion, which allowed the repatriation of thirty children. When we talk today, particularly with the French Foreign Minister, he says that the situation has changed considerably and that the conditions for intervention on the ground are much more complicated than we can imagine. I note that none of you have fallen into the simplicity of saying that it is enough to cross the border and pick up the children. You must also realize that going to find these children requires, on the one hand, a great deal of dialogue with other authorities and, on the other hand, to put Belgian agents on the ground. It is an operation that is being prepared, which is not simple and which carries a real responsibility on our part. On the question of the value of the statement made by the Kurds in Syria to conduct on-site trials, I have no more details than my response in plenary. The Syrian Kurds are not a recognized state authority. What is the legal value of this type of approach? We are working to search, but for the moment, we are obviously not in a classic situation of an organized state with the possibility of trial and decision-making. It is a dialogue and research that must continue. With regard to the two condemned Belgians who are in Iraq, their situation was raised during our meetings in Iraq. We have clearly reiterated our firm opposition to the death penalty. We received the answer I gave earlier. Like my predecessor Didier Reynders, the same steps are being taken to try to make our voice heard about our formal position on the application of the death penalty. One question addressed the situation in Lebanon. For the time being, this country is aware of the need to take action. During the time given to us, I did not have the opportunity to hear the whole plan to re-engage the Lebanese economy, but the expression was double. The Lebanese told us, on the one hand, "yes, we are aware that we must make efforts, we have a plan in this direction and since then a government has been validated" and, on the other hand, "don't let us down because we are an element of stability in the region". They call for a genuine dialogue with the European authorities. When a country is faced with difficult and unpopular decisions, it is necessary to be aware that these can cause shifts. Without wishing to exonerate itself from the need to act – there are statements and then there will be acts – it will be necessary, in due course, for our country, in particular, and for the European Union, in general, also to be at the meeting in order to maintain this strong link with Lebanon, which we believe is important. In short, we have understood the will to allow, as far as possible, with all the reservations I have just expressed, the return of children. We have made the choice of dialogue as wide as possible in order to be as effective and operational as possible as soon as possible. We are implementing the decision of a full-fledged government. You mentioned, Mrs. Rohonyi, children over the age of ten. Perhaps you have information about the presence of children over ten years of age. I don't have it. The Government's decision is consistent with the actual situation on the ground. For the time being, according to my information, no child over the age of ten would be concerned. I recall that the government's decision at the time was to work, in this case, on a case-by-case basis. Let's imagine that there is a 17-year-old who would have committed horrific atrocities and could himself be terribly radicalized. It is, in my view, a question that must be given the courage to face. It happens that in this case, we are in the presence of children under the age of ten. Therefore, the decision taken at the time, which we are implementing, does not run counter to such a hypothetical situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u14	Mr Minister, for the sake of clarity, I would like to make it clear that this question was not put to you by myself, but by my colleague from Vlaams Belang. What I wanted to say is that we must be able to proceed on a case-by-case basis with regard to the repatriation of children. Perhaps at today's time, and fortunately, repatriation would involve children under the age of 10. It may be on this basis that the government's decision was made. But the more time we waste, the more likely we are to find ourselves in a situation in which children may be over the age of 10. I don't wish it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u15	We do what we can and we work hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u16	I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u17	Whether it is within the Department of Defence or the Department of Foreign Affairs, the teams are mobilized. I remain committed to parliamentary work. I'll say it again. Questions about our future role in relation to NATO and our presence in the Daesh coalition were raised. These debates must be transparent in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u18	There may be some things that haven't been cleared up yet, but we'll see each other again. Minister, you are referring to the 2017 government decision on children. I suspect you are referring to the Security Council's decision of 18 December 2017. Would it be possible to give us the text of that decision so that everyone knows what he is talking about? You did not answer the question of clause 5 of the NATO Treaty on the possible risk within the NATO partnership when Turkey strikes with the Syrian army, which is the case. Any consequences would be particularly annoying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u19	Minister, I thought your introduction was very strong, but you did not answer many of my questions. You have devoted a great deal of time to the situation of the children, and rightly so. However, you are Secretary of State and President of the UN Security Council and my questions were put in advance. I would like to have another debate with you on this. In view of the dramatic humanitarian situation in Idlib, there is a need for a ceasefire. Will Belgium, through the UN Security Council, make another attempt to reach a new resolution to work towards a cease-fire? Can we work on coordinated action by the European Union within the UN Security Council? I have also suggested that you take advantage of the offer or announcement made by President Erdogan of Turkey to sit with France and Germany. It is better to do so in a coordinated, broader, European way. Not only Germany and France will then be at the table, but the European Union as a whole. That is perhaps a concrete path to do something diplomatically. If Erdogan's announcement expires, or if he does not turn it into practice, I think that the European Union can act proactively and initiate an initiative, on the one hand through the UN Security Council, Belgium will delegate the President and Penholder, but on the other hand through the European Union, using Erdogan's announcement. What is your position on that? Is there any way to support, through the UN Security Council, the crucial work of Syrian NGOs to bring them closer to the work of the Security Council and thus give them a voice? They are official partners of the Security Council and the UN to provide emergency humanitarian aid in that area. We're working with those Syrian NGOs anyway. I will address my question about our country's answer to the question of making extra money available for OCHA to your colleague De Croo. Nevertheless, I would have liked to have had an answer to the political-diplomatic questions about the current crisis situation in Idlib.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u20	Minister, since you have not answered – not even laconically – some of my questions, I will allow myself to return to them. As far as children are concerned, you will understand that no one doubts that you are mobilizing all the necessary efforts. Now, let's be honest and recognize that they should have been hired earlier. You're working hard, but the government should have done a long time before. Some difficulties would have been avoided. In your dialogue with mothers, do you offer them a specific repatriation plan, so that they can understand what will happen to their children: will they be placed, and under what conditions? Has a procedure been established? If so, was it explained to them? With regard to our presence in Iraq through NATO's mission, you rightly reaffirmed that it was indispensable – especially in order to fight against Daesh's dormant cells, which could wake up very quickly. However, we must remain sensitive to the agreement that the Iraqi government must give to this presence. Do you consider this approval to be an indispensable prerequisite? If tomorrow the Iraqi authorities were to signify their refusal to see foreign troops on their soil, would you still feel that NATO troops should remain there? It's an open question. In conclusion, I would like to return to another question that I asked you – without imagining that it would be included in an exchange of views – because it really seems essential to me. I am referring to this United Nations Special Council to promote accountability for the crimes committed by Daesh. I read in the annual report that contacts have already been made with France, Germany, the United States and Turkey with a view to developing a legal framework for the transmission of exhibits to States that wish to do so and that the European authorities have already been contacted in February 2019. It is thus indicated that the Special Council informed the subgroup "International Criminal Court" of the working group on public international law of the mandate and activities of the team. He also had the opportunity to meet with senior officials of the European Union in Brussels with a view to defining further arrangements for cooperation in the coming months. That seems to me to be very important. If we have the capacity to gather evidence that would allow terrorist fighters to be tried on Belgian soil by guaranteeing them a fair trial, but above all, by giving us the means to condemn them for the crimes they have actually committed, this cannot be neglected. I therefore ask the minister: have you known about this service, and if so, do you have any contact with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. Although some questions remained unanswered. First of all, I would like to associate myself with my colleague Wouter De Vriendt. I fully agree with him on the question of Idlib. I believe that we must take firm and proactive initiatives within the European Union and the Security Council to stop the ongoing humanitarian tragedy. In the same vein, I believe that we must meet with Turkey and dialogue with it in order to secure its withdrawal from Syria and to ensure that there is a peace and stabilization force. Europe must be able to play its part in such a force. On the question of children, I will not answer you about the proportion of children whose mothers have already given their consent. I'm in contact with some of them. I would like to ask you the question differently: are you going to wait for the green light of all the parents regarding these 42 children or how do you intend to ensure that those who are already ready from this area can be repatriated quickly? How do you imagine this operation? Are there any methodological principles that have already been agreed with other Member States? You referred to the fact that you were in contact with other Member States on this issue. With regard to the anti-Daesh coalition and NATO, you have referred to a parliamentary debate. We are not in the room where each other's interventions are held within the framework of NATO or the anti-Daesh coalition. In order not to go around in circles, it would still be good if at some point we adopted a way of working on this issue, because we are not moving forward. I am requesting that we make a contribution according to our possibilities. We have traditionally been loyal partners in these coalitions. We have a very important moral responsibility for Daesh, given what happened in Belgium and France and given the responsibility of Belgian nationals in the context of Islamist terrorism. I think we need to move on. I don't know what your proposal is. I can of course make motions for resolutions, but it would be essential to have a methodology and to be able to work on this issue in a concrete way. In particular, you can work through the groups represented in the House that are part of your government in day-to-day business to come with a draft in committee. I would not want us to have proposals that are completely out of the scope of what you have imagined yourself or what your services or Defence imagine. Madam President, at some point we will have to agree on a proposal for a methodology, since you are legitimately referring to Parliament in day-to-day matters. At the same time, I believe that Parliament must be able to be informed of certain suggestions or proposals that are already on the table, so that we can make progress in this area. Finally, you did not answer the question whether there had been any specific requests addressed to you, notably by the Iraqi government or the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), the government of Iraqi Kurdistan. In the humanitarian field, in reconstruction or in other areas, have any specific requests been made to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u22	Minister, thank you for the many important answers to this afternoon's questions. It can be understood that, on some aspects, it may be important, for one or the other reason, to be more cautious. This period is indeed difficult for us as parliamentarians and for you as a minister, since we are in day-to-day business. We therefore sometimes find it difficult to respond adequately or, in any case, on time with regard to certain international events. We know how complex international news, Minister. The elements change very quickly, whether in the Middle East or in other parts of the world, but we have the opportunity to exercise our influence. It is true that neither this current period of business, nor our country, nor our Parliament, nor our government can under any circumstances lead us to remain motionless. We must continue to take responsibility where we can, within the limits of the Constitution and the law, to protect our fundamental interests. I sincerely believe that we should face some challenges on the horizon. I am thinking of this NATO mission and of certain issues that might prompt our country to take a stand. To that end, we should work together - Parliament and government - to identify avenues that could help you fulfill your international tasks. You will of course be able to count – you will not be surprised – on my group to support you in this effort. It reassures you, isn't it! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. Many issues were addressed, although some were not answered. That is why I would like to get some more information about your discussions with the Lebanese ambassador, regarding possible police blunders on the streets of Beirut against demonstrators who were then opposed to the regime in place – even though a new government has taken office in the meantime. With regard to the repatriation of children, I obviously agree with what has been said by my colleagues. We are certainly well aware of the difficulties of the steps to be taken to ensure respect for their rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr De Roover, Article 5 of the NATO Treaty deals with self-defense. This therefore concerns only the integrity of NATO territory and not external operations. You have asked me the question about the government's decision and you would like that note. You are also talking about the CNS. I'll get you the note, so it becomes clear. I had a question about the dialogue with the moms. I'm sorry not to go any further, but we realize the difficult nature of the operation. This is part of a global "package". There is the operational part to see how we are going, how the children will be repatriated and how the children can be received here in the best conditions. The scenarios are under consideration and it is not useful to go further here. You know that this involves not only the federal state but also other entities in our country. Mr. Dallemagne, you say you're in contact with mothers on the spot. You say you know the position of some of them. We also know them because they brought appeals and their initial applications were clearly about non-separation. The question will be asked to all mothers simultaneously. It would be surprising if they were suddenly not informed when the exchanges took place. I appeal to their responsibility. It's a personal choice they'll make. These are delicate operations in a territory that is at war and we can therefore say that we are not going to organise fifty return trips by putting Belgian operators in danger each time. I hope that reason will prevail in view of the various welcome offers that will be made. You're right when you say they need to know the context in which the reception will be organized here. Whatever they have done, they do have the right to know how their child can be welcomed here. Even if there are blockages in some mothers' heads, we won't say that we don't take anyone. But it is also a call for responsibility and respect for our own agents: it is not a question of saying that there will be four tomorrow and eight the day after. There is a strong signal on our part and we call for respect for our positioning. If you have contacts, feel free to send the messages. And if you have information that could be useful to us, I have no doubt that you will communicate it to us because we are all motivated by the same desire to succeed in this operation for children. I was also asked what would happen if Iraq said, "We don't want you anymore." Iraq is a sovereign State and this sovereignty must be respected. We would regret this decision, but it does not belong to us. According to the contacts I have had, it does not seem to be widely shared in Iraq and in the Kurdish autonomous region of Iraq, and that is so much better! However, this could happen, given the resolution taken. Mrs Rohonyi, regarding the violence in Lebanon, I did not personally receive the Lebanese ambassador, but the services of the administration. I will not tell you that I have the answer, but I will not fail to provide you with it which will avoid being approximate and not providing a concrete answer. Mr Dallemagne, you said that it would be a shame if resolutions were tabled in Parliament that would run counter to the progress of discussions on the role of NATO. Of course, I'll be with you. But let us be pragmatic! This debate must be able to take place upstream of the various avenues proposed. In what direction could its role evolve? In which direction could the coalition move? This is the place to talk about it a fortiori, because rules are necessary for our State - which is very well so - and are reinforced by the particular situation of a government in day-to-day affairs, which Mrs Jadin stressed. I agree with you: as soon as structured proposals can be made, we will be holding a debate here in Parliament as open as possible in relation to our role in the specific framework of NATO and the coalition. With regard to the situation in Idlib, she was of particular concern when all actors were called upon to exercise restraint and respect international humanitarian law. You stress that we hold the presidency of the Security Council for a month and have the capacity for action at European level. I will tell you that we are trying to weigh on both elements. For the time being, and more so in relation to the European aspect, which I am delighted about, I am new in the office and a convinced European like many of you. And I note that through our High Representative Josep Borrell and the other Member States (for we are not in a world where the 27 countries are in agreement on everything), real discussions are taking place at the Councils of Ministers. Yesterday, I was there to try to weigh more. It is true that the role of our High Representative is strengthened every time, and he points out how important it is for Europe to weigh. It is also important to us. Indeed, solutions require a stronger Europe. In that, I will join you quite well. With regard to the Security Council, which we hold for a month, resolutions can be introduced to strengthen that point of view. We are doing this at European level. At the Security Council level, I need to get back in touch with our Permanent Representation there to assess the feasibility and how to... Again, I'm not going to give you any information that would be approximate. It's not my nature. But I can hear your observation. Mr Ben Achour, your question is about UNITAD. For the time being, this collection of evidence relates to Iraqi territory and not to Syrian territory. Now, you may have other information that can go further, but according to the information I have, it is more about Iraqi territory than about Syrian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u25	Indeed, it is clearly more on Iraqi territory. A Belgian national from Verviers, Tarik Jadaoun, to my knowledge a prisoner in Iraqi Kurdistan, committed acts in Mosul. He was captured there, if I remember correctly. In my opinion, the evidence gathered on Iraqi ground can be useful for some of our nationals, if not for many.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u26	The mandate, what exactly is it? Is it the collection of evidence in a given territory? In my opinion, yes! I don't have the warrant in front of me. It would be interesting to consult him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u27	I only have the annual report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u28	I think that upstream we need to look at the mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u29	Yes, but obviously, according to the annual report, it is about gathering evidence on Iraqi ground and making it available to the courts and tribunals who wish to do so, on the basis of a legal agreement to be formalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u30	But for acts committed in Iraq!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u31	Yes! Tarik Jadaoun committed acts in Iraq. If we want to try Tarik Jadaoun in Belgium, the evidence gathered there would be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u32	I think we have a good understanding of the matter. We were talking about these mothers in the camps in Syria. For the most part, they are the subject of a conviction...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u33	I wasn't just talking about mothers. I was talking about adult FTFs, in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u34	I know that. But that was to clarify the point. I said earlier – and I think we were talking about the same thing – that the Belgian legal arsenal, for the moment, does not allow a return in accordance with our own security here. These are fairly short sentences for acts of participation, without having any proof if this has gone further. As far as Iraqi territory is concerned, all evidence will of course be welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u35	Minister, it is a good thing that you say that you will contact our representation in New York to see which diplomatic initiatives we can take or strengthen or encourage as President of the United Nations Security Council. Madam President, I am beginning to suspect that my parliamentary question that was tabled last week did not reach you. That question was already in there. Of course, the Minister could have contacted New York before he could answer my question. Every day extra means an extra day of humanitarian catastrophe in the region. I might be able to work that out with one of your employees. I think that the path to work through Turkey, through Erdogan's announcement, can be interesting to get some of the parties around the table, even as a European Union. So not only Germany and France separately, but making this an initiative with the cooperation of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u36	We can now move on to the second debate on the Trump plan. Six questions have been put. Other colleagues can always agree to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u37	Madam President, Minister, although my question was tabled the day after the Trump Plan was presented, it remains entirely relevant. First of all, I must recall the unilateral nature of this, since the Palestinian Authority was not consulted during the negotiations that brought together only the American administration and the Israeli power. This plan deprives Palestinians of the opportunity to enforce their rights, which are nevertheless guaranteed by international law. When I asked you in plenary, minister, you told me that you were going to take the time to analyze the plan and the situation. I have also heard you say that you are in favour of a solution that respects international law – and I share that principle. Minister, where are we? What conclusions have you reached after considering this plan? Do you think it should be taken into account or, like a large part of the international community, do you intend to reject it because it is not in the direction of peace, as it reinforces the Israeli colonial policy that is catastrophic for the Palestinian people? Do you clearly stand against this plan? Indeed, it is contrary to the position that you defend and that is based on international law to resolve this conflict. In short, I would like to know how the situation has changed. Have you made contact with the U.S. administration? What points did Belgium defend? What official position does this plan inspire you? Do you take it into consideration or reject it permanently and in a non-negotiable manner? As I said, this plan offers no perspective in terms of the right to a State for the Palestinian people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u38	Madam President, Minister, I know that you already had the opportunity to respond in plenary two or three weeks ago when this "peace plan" was presented by Donald Trump and Benyamin Netanyahu. The plan provided for a two-State solution, took as its acquisition a whole section of Palestinian territory colonized by the State of Israel and, above all, referred to a solution that seemed to have been the subject of exclusively bilateral discussions. Our diplomatic culture in Europe and, not long ago, in large parts of the world, consists of the multilateral approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. With only advantages, it must be done in the interests of the countries of the region directly concerned, in order to maintain lasting peace and with the involvement of European countries such as Belgium, which is trying to carry out major diplomacy and economic cooperation. Our country has always been careful to maintain equidistant but friendly relations both with Israel – I would like to stress this – and with the Palestinian authorities. This plan surprised a lot. Reactions at European Union level followed quite quickly. The European Union's spokesman, Josep Borrell, reacted by affirming what has always been our position in Belgium and in the Union, namely that we call for a balanced two-State solution with this need to condemn what is in violation of international law and all human rights conventions, particularly with regard to colonization. We have also condemned terrorist attacks or those that appear to be disproportionate as a result of very ad hoc conflicts. We must continue to have a relationship aimed at bringing together the two protagonists around the table, with the aim of achieving lasting peace in the region. Minister, could you give us an account of the information you have? In fact, during your first intervention, you did not have all the information necessary to take a concrete position. Can you tell us whether, as a Parliament, we can take initiatives, as had already been the case under the previous Parliament with the vote on a resolution, which had made a lot of noise because it had been unanimous in the democratic parties and allowed our diplomacy and the European Union to move forward in a stronger and more vigorous way? Is it possible for us to take over the torch in an attempt to pacify the region? In any case, at least Trump's exit will have had the merit of putting this issue at the top of the European and international agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u39	Madam President, Minister, on 28 January 2020 President Trump announced his peace plan for the Middle East. What's in that plan is quite shocking, because it certainly doesn't bring a solution any closer. The plan is mostly provocative. It provides for Israel's annexation of approximately 30% of the West Bank, full sovereignty for Jerusalem, with the exception of some Palestinian districts in East Jerusalem and continued control of the security of the Palestinian State. All checkpoints would remain in Israeli hands. The Palestinian State remains demilitarised. Moreover, the proposed Palestinian State remains de facto an archipelago of islands without territorial unity. Above all, however, this plan came about, as far as it can be called a plan, without any consultation with the Palestinians themselves. But there was consultation with Israel. It also imposed additional conditions on the Palestinians, such as the recognition of Israel as a Jewish State, the dismantling of Hamas, the presence of a government system on the Palestinian side and so on. The plan also clearly violates international law and the principles to which the international community and the European Union adhere, which are a negotiated two-state solution. It is clear that the plan must be referred to the wastebasket, preferably in the most formal terms, so that the framework of a solution that can be maintained becomes clear for future negotiations and for all the actors involved. In fact, this is what High Representative Borrell made clear in his statement of 4 February 2020. Following on from your reply at the plenary session of 30 January 2020, I would nevertheless like to ask you the following questions. Can you give us the Belgian Government's position on this peace plan once again? What will our country do to ensure that the European Union as a whole rejects Trump's plan in its entirety? Will we use our Presidency of the Security Council to take an initiative, for example in the form of a resolution rejecting the peace plan? I did not pass on my question in advance, but if I am not mistaken, it was close to ensuring that such a resolution had been tabled in the UN Security Council. It was an initiative of a number of countries, including Indonesia, if I remember correctly. However, the resolution was not put to the vote at the last minute. Finally, I think it is important that the European Union should try to present an alternative and play a role in these peace negotiations. In fact, there is no reason why the United States should play an important intermediary role there and not the European Union. On the contrary, it is about neighbourhood policy and stability in the Middle East, which is in the direct interest of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u40	Madam President, Minister, as my fellow Members have already mentioned, on 4 February, European foreign representative Josep Borrell rejected the American proposal on the situation in Palestine for several reasons, including the incompatibility of that proposal with international parameters, international law, UN resolutions and the principle of a two-state solution. Josep Borrell also stated: "Steps towards annexation, if implemented, could not pass unexpectedly." You stated that you fully supported Borrell's statement. Mr Minister, my first question on this is in response to questions from colleagues on the Belgian Presidency of the UN Security Council. Will the Presidency of the UN Security Council also lead to an initiative being taken to confirm these principles, possibly through a resolution? Can you specify what concrete steps, and possibly what deadline, should be taken, according to Belgium, should Israel proceed to a judicial annexation? Do you agree with the opinion of the International Court of Justice, which states that third countries have a legal obligation not to recognise an illegal situation and do not in any way help or assist in the maintenance of that situation? If that is the case, can you clarify what initiatives you will take so that Belgium, and by enlargement the EU, would not recognise and assist the illegal settlement industry and annexation? Are you open to initiatives to consider, for example, a full legal ban on imports of products from occupied territories? Mr Lynk, UN Special Rapporteur for Human Rights in occupied Palestinian territory, announced that he would propose in October 2020 a list of counter-measures, counselling measures, to the United Nations General Assembly to increase pressure on Israel to comply with its obligations under international law. Are you prepared, through diplomacy, to allow active participation in the efforts of the UN rapporteur? Are you prepared to take concrete initiatives to protect the independence of the International Criminal Court from Israeli and American intimidation attempts, so that the court can open a formal investigation into the violations of international law by all warring parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u41	Minister, Mr Trump called that deal "the deal of the century." It is indeed the deal of the century, but above all for the Israeli side. In your opinion and in Mr Borrell's view, any peace plan must contain the aspirations of both parties, be based on international law and respect the two-state solution. The limits set in 1967 should also be respected. A plan that recognises Israel's illegal settlements is simply not an option. I have the following questions. In the meantime, have you communicated the Belgian position on the plan in bilateral contacts with the United States? Have you taken initiatives in the framework of the UN Security Council? How do you estimate the further evolutions on the ground? On the Palestinian side, all military cooperation was stopped. What consequences does that have on the ground today? Can you give us any insight into that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u42	Minister, on 6 February, Jared Kushner defended the Middle East peace plan before members of the Security Council. I do not need to recall that this peace plan violates all the fundamental principles of international law on this issue. Unsurprisingly, the plan was rejected by the other protagonist, Mr Abbas, at the United Nations on 11 February. This approach, Jared Kushner, did not lead him into the United Nations itself. He had preferred to invite fifteen members of the Security Council to lunch at the United States mission, just across the street. The objective of this meeting seemed to be to allow the Americans to develop their views in a more discreet setting than that of the United Nations. According to the information published in Le Monde, this strategy would have been quite successful. Several countries, including the United Kingdom and Belgium, would have found the meeting interesting. On 30 January, I asked you in plenary session. You argued that a credible negotiation process should be based on international law, on the one hand, and on the other, on parameters acceptable to both parties. Clearly, the document prepared by Trump and Kushner does not contribute to the implementation of this dynamic. I would therefore like to know whether you confirm the holding of this meeting and the participation of Belgian diplomats. And finally, if you can tell us more about the content of these discussions and the exact positions Belgium has defended in this context, because, as I was telling you, I was really surprised when I read the World article.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u43	I understand that Mr Moutquin has additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u44	Madam Chair, to be quite honest, I was rereading the Rules of the House, and I do not know whether I can intervene in such debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u45	You can join the debate, you have two minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u46	Madam President, Minister, I hear everywhere that the situation is shocking and that the "peace plan", to which I am still putting quotation marks, is also shocking. I think it is shocking because, for having visited the field very often, in the occupied West Bank, it already corresponds to a reality. The annexation of zones C is already a reality. In fact, it is the Israeli army that controls the security of zone C. As a reminder, according to the Oslo agreements, this proposal was to last 5 years and not 25. Still at present, the Israeli army controls zone C and destroys Palestinian infrastructure, which it considers illegal. This is a rather cynical way of judging the legality of one infrastructure, when one country illegally occupies another. I am talking about Palestinian infrastructure but also about infrastructure paid for by the Belgian taxpayer. It happened a few months ago again, and your government rightly denounced it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u47	On the other hand, the Israeli army defines for Palestinians the depth at which they can dig their wells compared to what other settlements are doing in Area C. It is a point that has particularly shocked me on the ground. The annexation is, unfortunately, already a reality. This is all the more so when we hear the statements of the two main candidates in the March elections in Israel. They would confirm the annexation within days of their election. I'm talking about Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz. There is a risk that this annexation will become a reality even on the Israeli side. Mr Trump would like it to become so through a more global recognition. My question is this. Beyond the Trump judgment, on which we all happily join, what are we going to do? I was quite satisfied that there was a more or less common European position, but I do not see any answer. What are Belgium's demands at the European Council? Five years ago, the Michel government explained to us that we want to recognize the Palestinian state at the right time. If the timing wasn't already yesterday, wouldn't it be today? Is this not the time to give the Palestinians, in accordance with our desire that there be two independent States, a small source of hope, given the situation? Furthermore, in terms of actions, we conducted hearings a few weeks ago in the Committee on External Relations. We saw that the labelling of colony products was very complex. Why not go towards a ban on settlement products, in the same way that Europe has decided one for occupied Crimea?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u48	I have noticed that my question about Israel (No. 55003458C) is on the back of the agenda, but I think it is appropriate for me to put it in this context, because reference is made to Mr Borrell's position. Essential to any solution to the Palestinian-Israeli issue is that it works. That is why the resolution of 2016 which supported the N-VA states that the first condition is that a negotiated solution is reached between both parties. It looks like convincing the Palestinian side will still have some feet in the earth. I therefore believe that the solution will not follow immediately. On the Israeli side, we will know on 2 March how the Israeli electorate reacts to these developments. In any case, a lasting solution on both sides will have to be accepted. My questions on this issue concern the European Member States of the UN Security Council. Germany, France, Belgium and Estonia are working on a common position inspired by Mr Borrell's statement. Is the underlying intention of what Mr Borrell said that this should be seen as an alternative to the Trump plan? In a broader context, our relations with Israel have become somewhat troubled in recent weeks, including because Belgium invited Brad Parker as a guest speaker. Apart from the views of the person concerned or his organisation, what are the criteria used to invite speakers to the UN Security Council on behalf of our country? What's the strategy behind that? When someone is put forward by Belgium, does that mean that he is representative of the Belgian position?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u49	Madam President, as you know, since 1 February 2020 Belgium has been taking over the Presidency of the United Nations Security Council for a month. On 11 February, I chaired the Security Council. That meeting was devoted to the Middle East and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was discussed extensively here. The meeting was attended by the Palestinian President, Mahmoud Abbas. During my speech on behalf of the Belgian Presidency, I recalled that a credible negotiation process must comply with international law, including the relevant Security Council resolutions, and must be based on the parameters approved by the international community. It is important to remember that over and over again. Allow me to take this opportunity to repeat them. First, an agreement on the borders of the two States on the basis of the borders of 4 June 1967, with exchanges of territories agreed between the parties. In this regard, Belgium considers the settlement policy to be illegal under international law and poses an increasing risk to the feasibility of the two-State solution. Any credible initiative to relaunch the peace process must be accompanied by measures to put an end to colonization. Any unilateral annexation would also constitute a flagrant violation of international law and an obstacle to peace. Recent statements to this effect are therefore extremely worrying. Belgium and the European Union could recognise the changes made to the pre-1967 borders, including with regard to Jerusalem, only if they had previously been accepted by the parties. Secondly, a fair, fair and realistic solution to the refugee problem. In this context, Belgium will continue to support the essential work of UNRWA on the ground and calls on all its partners to do likewise. Thirdly, it is necessary to find a way through negotiation to regulate Jerusalem's status as the future capital of two states, taking into account the sighs of all its inhabitants. Fourthly, security arrangements that respect Palestinian sovereignty and demonstrate that the occupation is over and that for the Israelis they ensure their security and prevent the resurgence of terrorism. They must also respond effectively to the threats that have emerged in the region and unacceptable attempts by those who seek to challenge the very existence of Israel. A lasting solution involves a State of Israel with the recognized legitimacy of all and an independent, democratic, contiguous, sovereign and viable State of Palestine, so that the two States can live side by side in peace, security and mutual recognition. These parameters touch on extremely sensitive issues. Any contribution to relaunching a dynamic of negotiations remains welcome, but unilateral questioning of these parameters may exacerbate tensions already high on the ground. This is why Belgium believes that US proposals, which depart from these parameters, cannot become the new frame of reference for finding a solution to the conflict. Exchanges were held with the Americans in New York, Washington and Brussels, during which the Belgian position was explained. This is what I also reminded Jared Kushner during a telephone exchange on the morning of February 10. This evaluation is shared by the European members of the Security Council on whose behalf I made a statement in the margins of the meeting of 11 February. Poland, as a former member, joined. It should be stressed, however, that the American plan highlights the urgency of resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and that it has the merit of placing this issue at the top of the political and diplomatic agenda. The international community urgently needs to mobilise now in order to create a favourable environment that will contribute to the launch of credible negotiations. Discussions are under way within the European Union to determine its contribution to such a process and to reflect on the levers at our disposal to reengage Israel and the Palestinians in a constructive spirit. The European Union must also send clear messages to the parties concerned in order to discourage them from undertaking unilateral actions that could undermine the search for peace. High Representative Josep Borrell had an exchange on the subject with the Foreign Ministers at the Council meeting on 17 February. The discussion will continue over the next few weeks and I am confident that we will soon have an opportunity to discuss it here. There was a meeting at the American mission in New York. It is not usual, but it is part of normal diplomatic work. The Belgian ambassador did participate at the invitation of his counterpart. His report is entirely in line with the Belgian position, which we recalled and which I was able to make public at the Council meeting in New York on 11 February. For the rest, I leave to the press the interpretation that she wishes to give to this, within the framework of her dear freedom, as well as to us. Mr De Roover, DCI's invitation is conscious because the situation of all children in conflict zones is a priority. DCI is a partner of many UN members. There are no legal actions against DCI or Mr Parker. This is also important when we talk about states of law. DCI's opinions are its responsibility. We support the actions for all children living in conflict zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. I just have a little reflection on how we can contribute to the end of this conflict and to an agreement between the two sides to end this situation. I fully share what you have recalled, namely, that international law and United Nations resolutions must be based. On the other hand, what bothers me a little is that, in this conflict, the two sides are always on the same footing and both sides must agree. However, the Palestinians agreed with Security Council resolutions and international law, while the other side refused to respect that international law. My reflection goes beyond the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and relates to the role of the United Nations Security Council in dealing with any State that flagrantly violates international law and does not respect United Nations resolutions. What attitude should we have? How can these States ensure that they respect this international law? With regard to the question raised by Mr. De Roover, with regard to Mr Parker's invitation, I would like to congratulate you on this initiative. This is a very important issue. The rights of Palestinian children are outrageously violated by the Israeli State. But when one sees the reaction of the State of Israel, one understands that it has a lot to blame and that it bothers it that it is brought to light. If this conflict is to be brought to an end and a peace agreement put in place, we must ask ourselves how to ensure that the State of Israel respects international law. I therefore agree with Mr Moutquin's proposal to impose sanctions against the State of Israel, such as banning settlement products, since they are illegal under international law. How can we accept such products in Europe and in our country, knowing that they come from illegal territories condemned by international law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. This is a clear rejection of the Trump plan, following the example of the High Representative of the European Union. That is a good thing, but the question remains: what is the alternative? How can we achieve a dynamic in the region that respects international law, as well as the parameters that you yourself have mentioned? An initiative by the European Union is really appropriate here. If it turns out that this is not possible with all the Member States of the European Union, it will only strengthen a question that I have already raised here a few times, towards more enhanced cooperation within the European Union where there are issues on which no consensus can be reached. In any case, a European initiative must be accompanied by the necessary pressure. A number of colleagues have already referred to a thorough policy of differentiation. That's one of the slopes we can follow in there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers. I remain hungry about the need for recognition of the Palestinian State and about possible sanctions. There is a contradiction between saying that a solution is being sought to recognize the Palestinian State on the basis of the 1967 borders and refusing sanctions against Israeli settlements which, de facto, are not recognized as part of the Israeli State. I can understand that the policy of direct sanctions against Israel could harm diplomacy, but what about sanctions against Israeli settlements that are not recognized as part of the Israeli State? We should be able to carry out this reflection together, apart from political positions, in order to find a lasting solution to this conflict. Moreover, what happened with the NGO DCI is gravissim and your positions have been remarkable. I recall that Defence for Children International is not a pro-Palestinian organization at all but a human rights organization, especially the rights of the child. With regard to impunity for Israeli policy, we come to be vilified and attacked for positions that correspond to those of respect for international law, which we are all supposed to defend here!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There must be no doubt about the general principles governing the defence of children. However, inviting Mr Parker has harmed our relationship with Israel, which does not necessarily mean that it was a wrong decision. It has, however, led to a slightly different interpretation of his organization from that of those who are being pushed forward here. That the PVDA defends him will perhaps strengthen Israel in the belief that something is wrong there. To what extent do we remain in consultation with Israel to smooth these folds? It is not in our interest to give the impression that we are taking an unbalanced position on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u54	Madam President, I would like to reply briefly. Minister, I would just like to express my relief to you. I can now deduce from your answer that the Belgian diplomats were not one of those who were signed the peace plan by Jared Kushner. Apparently, diplomats found it good to have Jared Kushner sign the peace plan. I found this extraordinary. Fortunately, the Belgians are not concerned by this. What worries me a little more, however, is the lack of European unanimity on this issue. I read that Hungary was asserting its national sovereignty to express its support for the American administration's approach. I call, of course, for vigilance to be exercised so that the position of the Hungarians does not change that of the Europeans, which I believe is entirely in accordance with the law and with what a reasonable position should be in the case. We are, of course, also in favour of accompanying our diplomacy with a policy of differentiation on the products of the colonies. I would also like to remind colleagues of the difficulties in banning products from the colonies. They're the same ones to label. The difficulty will always be to identify the origin. I think we should look actively at solutions to circumvent this problem of identification, with a state, in front of us, which is not going to play the game. I would also like to reiterate the urgency and importance of recognizing the State of Palestine. We have a text in the sense that we will sooner or later return to the benches of our assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u55	We can now proceed to the agenda. Debates of the European Parliament (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Lacroix's 50502149C were converted into written questions. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Lacroix's 55001980C and 55002019C are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u56	Madam President, Minister, Presidential elections took place in Algeria on Thursday 12 December 2019. The previous President, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, resigned eight months ago after a sustained series of demonstrations and protests. The 82-year-old Bouteflika had been in office for twenty years and aspired to a fifth term of office. However, after the resignation of the President, the demonstrations did not stop. The Algerians continued to peacefully protest every day against the government system, the accompanying corruption, the low wages and stagnant economy, the police state and high unemployment. The demonstrators also protested against the new elections which they believed were merely to renew the façade of the old regime. Of the 145 candidates, only five were stopped. They were all poked and beaten within the regime. The calls not to vote worked. With an official figure of 39 % the turnout was historically low. The Algerians do now have a new president, the 74-year-old Abdelmadjid Tebbune. However, there is no real change. Immediately after the election of the new president, new protest broke out. My questions are as follows. How do you estimate the situation in Algeria? Have the elections been fair and free? Will you ask the new president to take into account the demands of the people? Have the EU Member States taken a common position? Are there any other initiatives at European level that are ongoing or are you going to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u57	Madam President, Minister, I also had a question for you about the situation in Algeria, in particular about the persecution of Christians. There are about 125,000 Christians, mostly Protestants, living in Algeria. Since 2018, the authorities have been systematically acting against them. Prayer houses are just shut down by the Algerian government. For missionation, Christians are on trial in the region. They risk high fines and even prison sentences. According to international newspapers, persecution of Christians did not increase as much in any other country as in the Maghreb country. It is also somewhat surprising that the situation has deteriorated so much in Algeria. After all, the country and the region are normally regarded as relatively liberal. The deterioration in the situation in Algeria did not go unnoticed. At the beginning of December 2019, the European Parliament condemned in a resolution the increasing persecution of Algerian Christians. I would have liked to have heard from you the following. Are you aware? Did you raise the facts with the Algerian authorities? What measures will you take or have you taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u58	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, my services are following developments in Algeria very closely. As you rightly pointed out, the turnout for the presidential election was very low. There were no international observers on the ground, making it difficult to comment on their progress. The day itself was largely without incident. There were some skirmishes in Kabylia, where the turnout was negligible, which is also confirmed by the electoral authority, Anie. The election results were not contested by the other candidates. Immediately after his victory, the new president reached out to the Hirak movement and invited them to enter into dialogue. The recent release of various activists and opinion makers is a positive signal, which could lead to the launch of such a dialogue between the government and the Hirak movement. We must also wait and see what impact the recent death of the Chief of Staff of the Army, Gaïd Salah, will have on the further developments in Algeria. Like our country, the other Member States of the European Union are closely monitoring developments in Algeria. Algeria is an important political and economic partner of Europe. Just before the elections, the former High Representative, Federica Mogherini, addressed the European Parliament on the situation in Algeria. It then stressed that the European Union respects the sovereignty and autonomy of Algeria and that Algeria is responsible for its own future. Mogherini also drew attention to the Algerian constitution and international agreements endorsed by Algeria, which lay down the fundamental principles of freedom, including freedom of expression, the right of assembly and freedom of the press. These principles were also included in the Association Agreement concluded with Algeria. It is important to encourage the Algerian authorities to continue their efforts to create a climate of transparency and confidence so that a constructive, inclusive and open dialogue can be launched to meet the legitimate demands of the Algerian people. I share your concern about religious freedom in Algeria. Belgium closely follows the human rights situation in Algeria through our embassy in Algiers and through our services of FPS Foreign Affairs in Brussels. Algeria shall be deemed to act in accordance with the obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ratified by Algeria. Within the framework of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the parties to the Convention must guarantee the right to freedom of religion, thought and conscience of all those legally covered by them, and in particular of religious minorities. This right includes the freedom to exercise one's own religion or belief in public or private, alone or with others. The latest comments from the 2018 Human Rights Committee in charge of monitoring the implementation of the Convention on Civil and Political Rights included recommendations on religious freedom. Belgium also joins the work of the European Union which maintains a systematic dialogue on human rights with Algeria. This dialogue is part of the Association Agreement of the European Union and Algeria which has existed since 2005. Algeria was the first North African country to establish joint partners and priorities with the EU at the March 2017 Association Council. This includes the promotion of the rule of law and the promotion of fundamental rights as well as interreligious dialogue. In the past, during the Universal Periodic Research, Belgium already formulated the mechanism of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, a recommendation for Algeria on religious freedom. However, this recommendation was not stopped by the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that you share the concern about the persecution of Christians. In an increasing number of countries, including Algeria, minority groups, such as Christians, are seen as a threat. This trend also encourages aggression against these minorities. It is a sad observation that thousands of Christians are denounced, persecuted and even killed for the sake of their faith all too often and without any impetus or cause. I hope that Belgium will continue to raise this issue at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u60	Minister, Foreign Affairs has launched a new diplomatic review for the Francophone role. Registration opened on 27 January. The number of women in diplomatic posts remains incredibly low, accounting for only 13.27 per cent of the staff (i.e. 15 women per 98 men). It should be noted that ambassadors have only 9 women per 71 men, or only 11.25 per cent. This leads us to believe that effective action must be taken. In this regard, United Nations resolution 1325, adopted in October 2000, on the impact of armed conflict on women, urges member States to "ensure that women are more represented at all levels of decision-making - in national, regional and international institutions and mechanisms - for the prevention, management and resolution of disputes". The 2018 report on the Third National Action Plan "Women, Peace and Security", which aims to implement this resolution in our country, proposes a recommendation to ensure better representation of women in federal administrations and, in particular, in diplomacy: "To pursue an active recruitment policy, to analyse trends in the recruitment of women and to adapt recruitment actions on the basis of this analysis." Minister, can you tell us, then, what is planned at each stage of the recruitment process, which has been opened to ensure a fair representation of women?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u61	Madame de Laveleye, because of her specificity – I am thinking in particular of the remoteness factor and the pressure on family life – the external career has attracted few women in the past. In recent years, my Department has made great efforts to improve this situation. Thus, the diplomatic examination has been thoroughly revised. By paying particular attention to gender neutrality, we are ensuring that women are adequately represented, both among reviewers and in the editors and editors of the review questions. The advertising campaign for the exam, via traditional channels and social media, also pays particular attention to the gender dimension. The video campaign "SPF au féminine" and the recent Facebook post "Belgium wants to recruit more women diplomats" offer examples. My department is also investing enormously in active family policy, taking structural measures for a family-friendly work environment. This year, an information session was held prior to the competition for potential candidates. The presence of the (...) to answer the questions attests, if necessary, to the commitment of the FPS Foreign Affairs in this respect. As a result of these measures, the influx of female colleagues into the external career has improved significantly. Since 2016, 144 people have been admitted to the internship. Nearly 40 per cent of them were women. Gender policy remains a priority for my services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u62	Thank you for your answer, Minister. By hearing and hearing the ads on the radio, one can see that an effort has actually been made in this direction. I have not been aware of the closing date or the time of publication of the results. I imagine that then we will be able to re-evaluate what your services have put in place to see if you and your services have produced the desired results. We can talk about it again if we need to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u63	Madam President, Minister, I come back to the situation of this Uighur family who were arrested in the very enclosure of the Belgian embassy in Beijing by the Chinese police some time ago. The husband and father of this woman and these children, who resides in Belgium, has had no news of her family since 2 December. Of course, there is great concern about the Chinese authorities' attitude towards the Uighur community in China. Pressure and repressive attitude do not weaken. What information do you have today about this family, its safety, its place of residence and the permissions it could obtain to join Mr. Ablimit Tursun who is currently in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u64	Minister, I will speak on the same subject. I recall that your predecessor explained himself on this subject in committee. He had stated that Belgium was prepared to grant visas but that the issue of the Chinese passport allowing departure continued to be a problem. He had also reassured us, particularly about the telephone contacts that were continuing with the lady in question. But as my colleague has just pointed out, since December 2nd, the communications that the father had managed to establish with the other family members have been cut off. The embassy, too, tried to reach them, without success. What actions are being put in place today by our services to re-establish contact? On the basis of these new elements, have you intervened with the Chinese authorities and what has been their response?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u65	Minister, several months ago, I was asking your predecessor about the situation of the Uighurs in China. I am not going to go back to the humanitarian tragedy that unfortunately takes place in a certain indifference. Last month, the European Parliament adopted by show of hands a resolution calling on the Commission, the Council and the Member States to take all necessary measures "to convince the Chinese Government to close the camps, to put an end to all human rights violations in Xinjiang and to preserve the fundamental freedoms of the Uighurs". Parliamentarians also called on the Council to adopt targeted sanctions and freeze assets of those responsible for the severe repression of fundamental rights in Xinjiang. As a result, they awarded the Sakharov Prize for Human Rights to the daughter of Uighur academic Ilham Tohti, who came to represent her father who was sentenced to life imprisonment in China. A few days later, Beijing rejected these requests as a whole, believing that this was an interference in its internal affairs. Minister, can you tell me what the situation is at present and what is Belgium's position on it? Will any action be taken, at Belgian or European level, following the adoption by the European Parliament of the resolution referred to above? Similarly, I regularly followed the fate reserved for the family of Ablimit Tursun, a refugee in Belgium, from the Uighur minority. In November, Didier Reynders, then in charge, sent two letters to his Chinese counterpart on this subject. Can you, again, inform me about the current status of this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u66	Colleagues, as you pointed out, the telephone contact with this family was broken just as it was between our embassy in Beijing and this one. As a humanitarian measure, our Embassy is seeking the cooperation of the Chinese authorities in order to obtain as soon as possible information on the living conditions of Ms. Abdulla and her children and on how to re-establish direct contact with them. For the rest, you will allow me to remain discreet about the more personal elements of this family's file out of respect for his privacy. I share your concern about the human rights situation in Xinjiang and, in particular, the fate of the Uighurs. Recently, some media reported the possible closure of some camps in the region. However, we are not yet in a position to confirm this information. As was already the case before the European Parliament's resolution, Belgium continues to refer to the situation of the Uighurs in Xinjiang regularly with the Chinese authorities, both in the context of our bilateral and multilateral meetings. And at EU level, our country continues to give its political support to raise the issue of respect for human rights in Xinjiang with the Chinese authorities. Secondly, with regard to the specific situation of the Abdullah Abdullah Miti family, telephone contact has been broken since 3 December 2019 and also with our embassy in Beijing. As a humanitarian measure, our Embassy is seeking the cooperation of the Chinese authorities in order to obtain as soon as possible information on the living conditions of Ms.Abula and her children and on how to re-establish direct contact with them. I can confirm that we will continue to raise the human rights of the Uighurs in Xinjiang both in our bilateral and multilateral meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u67	Minister, I am not very optimistic about the evolution of repression against the Uighurs. The reports we receive are not favourable and indicate that there is a check in particular through the systematic filing of Uighurs DNA fingerprints. As far as this family is concerned, I mean that you repeat twice that, on a humanitarian basis, you are asking for the cooperation of the Chinese authorities. I do not know what this formula means precisely in diplomatic language. What I know, on the other hand, is that Belgium has an overwhelming responsibility for the fact that this family is now in this situation. If our country had not asked, in the middle of the night, for the cooperation of the Chinese police to evacuate this family manu militari, we would not be there today. This therefore goes far beyond the humanitarian issue. I believe that this is truly a strong responsibility of Belgium. I hope that our country is well aware of this and that it will intervene firmly with the Chinese authorities. I do not dare imagine that Belgium accepts that, having requested the cooperation of the Chinese authorities, this cooperation is reflected in the disappearance of this family. I hope that Belgium will be extremely firm and clear on how it will have access to information on the fate of this family and that our diplomats will be able to meet with this family, when we have news of its place of residence and the conditions of this residence. I intend to return to this issue, but I cannot content myself with the fact that we are acting solely on a humanitarian basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u68	Minister, I take note of the weakness of the concrete progress that has been made on this issue. Weeks and months pass and the situation is not changing positively. The repression in China is worrying and China Cables have demonstrated this very recently. The development of technology in China for control purposes is also cause for concern. I join my colleagues in calling on the government to take firmer steps to unblock this dramatic situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u69	Mr Minister, I also join my colleagues in inviting you, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, as well as the entire government and the Belgian political members in supranational bodies, to ensure that we make the Chinese authorities as aware as possible of the situation of the Uighurs and, more specifically, of the family of Ablimit Tursun, who is still a refugee, we do not know where in China. I know that contacts in this area must remain discreet in order to be effective, and I therefore trust you to try to unblock this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u70	The first Global Forum for Refugees was held in Geneva on 17 and 18 December 2019. That is where the international community first came together to agree on concrete next steps in relation to the implementation of the so-called Global Compact on Refugees, not to be confused with the so-called Migration Pact. The global compact provides a framework for a more predictable and equitable distribution of responsibilities for people on the run. It recognises that a sustainable solution to refugee situations begins and ends with international cooperation. It is convened at ministerial level. In this way, the international community can be brought together to announce ambitious new measures, such as the relief of pressure on host countries, the strengthening of refugee independence, the extension of access to solutions in third countries and the improvement of the situation in the countries of origin in order to allow safe and dignified return. The first global forum offered a unique opportunity for international organisations, governments and local authorities, civil society, the private sector and refugees to come together and find new sustainable solutions. Good practices were also exchanged during the Forum. In particular, the focus was on six themes: arrangements for sharing burdens and responsibilities, education, jobs, livelihoods, energy and infrastructure solutions and protection capacity. I would like to hear from you what Belgium's concrete input was for the different focus themes? Which pledges has Belgium done, in particular but not exclusively with regard to financial and non-financial contributions for more ambitious protection and reception in the region and resettlement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u71	The subject of your question is not the responsibility of my department, but of the Department of Development and Humanitarian Aid. On 17 and 18 December Belgium participated in the Global Refugee Forum in Geneva, organized by UNHCR. Belgium was represented by the Permanent Representative of Belgium to the United Nations in Geneva. Belgium has contributed to the discussion of the different focus themes by sharing good practices in the areas of protection, jobs and livelihoods. In addition, Enabel proposed on the speaker's corner a program in Uganda that was linked to the focus theme jobs and livelihoods. Belgium did three pledges at the forum on advocacy and financial support for refugee programmes and resettlement, and joined a joint pledge on rights of women and girls.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The purpose of my question was to find out what the concrete input or the complete pledges were. We knew that there were pledges for both financial contributions and resettlement, but what are the financial contributions and what is the content of the resettlement measures? I did not receive an answer to my question, that is clear. I'm just gonna get my question back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u73	Do you have anything to add to that, Minister? I understood that the question was intended for another colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u74	She's for another department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u75	Mr Segers, perhaps you can address your question to the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u76	Madam Chair, Minister, my question is a little dated. It is recalled that on 8 January Iran responded to the assassination of General Soleimani by the targeted and almost coordinated bombing of the American military bases of Erbil and Ain al-Assad, ensuring that no human damage was caused. This attack did not result in any casualties and President Trump welcomed what Iran seemed to be reversing. In conclusion, he said that the United States was "ready for peace with all those who want it". According to several sources, the Islamic Republic has deliberately avoided reaching human targets and causing significant damage. At the same time, Donald Trump announced new additional economic sanctions against Iran. While he did not detail them, he stated that they would apply until the country changed its attitude. This remains true to his strategy on international issues. In committee on 8 January, you told us that you had asked the United States to share the necessary information through the appropriate channels in order to better understand the reasons for their intervention. Minister, has your request been acted upon? How do our services assess developments in Iran? How do you react to the announcement of new sanctions against Iran, particularly following meetings at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u77	Madam President, Minister, the situation in the Middle East remains very tense after the attack on General Qassem Soleimani. Can you explain the Belgian position adopted and the results of the EU Committee of Foreign Ministers on Friday 10 January with regard to Iran? What prospects do you see in terms of stabilisation and dialogue? Can the European Union take an initiative along these lines? What contacts have there been between the European Union and Iran since the elimination of Qassem Soleimani by the US? Did we play a certain role there? What is the state of play with respect for the 2015 nuclear agreement? Will inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency continue to be possible? Do you have any recent information on this? That is a very important question. How does the government in Iraq stand with regard to the United States and the European Union? We have just had the opportunity to debate this. Finally, what is the state of play with regard to the Ukrainian plane, whether or not shot down by a rocket, near Tehran? In the meantime, of course, we have heard more news about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the international call for de-escalation following the elimination of Iranian general Soleimani seems to be heard by both Iran and the United States. The Iranian response was limited in scope and impact, which also allowed the US President to reduce the threats to Iran. In response, the US has imposed additional sanctions against Iranian officials. Now is the time to engage in dialogue and international diplomacy, because new incidents cannot be ruled out. Here, the European Union can play an important role in maintaining contacts with both parties. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mr Borrell, has already taken several initiatives in this regard, including with the US and with my Iranian colleague for Foreign Affairs, Mr Zarif. A visit by Minister Zarif did not take place, but he was invited to Brussels by the High Representative Borrell. These initiatives were also discussed at the special Foreign Affairs Council on 10 January on this US-Iran crisis. At this Council, I advocated a broader reflection on an EU contribution for stability in the region. Belgium has already shared elements with its colleagues in the European Union. The Foreign Affairs Council took place yesterday and we discussed Iran again. Meanwhile, High Representative Borrell and Iranian Foreign Minister Zarif met in India. The High Representative Borrell intends to visit Iran and Iraq next week. In the margins of the Iranian response to the death of General Soleimani, an Ukrainian passenger plane was shot down by Iranian defence guns. In that tragic incident, 176 deaths were to be regretted. Iran has admitted its involvement and responsibility for that incident after some hesitation. I therefore support the need for a full and transparent international investigation into this painful event, so that the perpetrators are called to account. That is also what the Iranian people are asking for by means of protest. With regard to these demonstrations in several Iranian cities in recent months with numerous casualties and injuries, Belgium agrees with the European Union's statement that any violence is unacceptable. The rights to freedom of expression and assembly must be guaranteed. The concerns of society can only be addressed through inclusive dialogue and not through the use of violence. The Iranian authorities are also obliged to guarantee the free flow of information, access to the Internet, as a result of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which Iran has ratified, and the proper functioning of embassies, as provided for in the Geneva Convention. The nuclear agreement with Iran was even more under pressure from Iran's announcement on 5 January that it no longer restricts, among other things, the number of centrifuges it uses for enrichment. As a result, virtually all operational restrictions of the JCPoA have been reduced. Iran does not say that it will withdraw from the nuclear agreement, nor that it will cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency and allow inspection. However, the E3 saw no other option than to invoke the so-called dispute resolution mechanism. They make it clear that they do not subscribe to the American maximum pressure campaign, but with that signal they want to convince Iran to return to full compliance with the JCPoA. Belgium supports these efforts to find a solution to this conflict through consultation. This will be addressed by the High Representative, Josep Borrell, during his next visit to Iran. The death of General Soleimani and his accompanying Iraqis shocked the Iraqi population, especially the part of the population with sympathy for Iran. The Iraqi Parliament has adopted a resolution calling for the departure of foreign troops. Nevertheless, it is the government that must legally ask for this departure. The request for information on Soleimani's involvement has been raised in the United States at various levels but I have not yet received a concrete response. The Iraqi government is currently in day-to-day business. This legally complicates the demand. Since then, things have changed. We have good reason to believe that the Iraqi government is also convinced that the anti-Daesh coalition and its action have advantages for Iraq. As I have told you, the situation should be slowly clarified. The attitude of Iraqi government circles towards the European Union and its important influence is already positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u79	Minister, thank you for these answers. You mentioned Iran's pressure on the nuclear agreement. I will repeat the point I have already made here. If the Vienna Agreement (JCPoA) is under pressure, it is first of all because the United States has come out of it. The gear we are experiencing today has started there because, at some point, the United States has unilaterally emerged from this agreement. I persist and sign. I believe that there will be no solution to the conflict without Europeans making the necessary efforts to guarantee Iran the benefits of its own commitments. Iran is making commitments to its nuclear programme and, in return, it must receive economic benefits. If Europe is not able to guarantee these benefits, I think we will not. What is deplorable in this situation is that the regime's "moderates" have negotiated this nuclear agreement for thirteen years and that today, from the point of view of the regime's "hards", it is a complete failure. Indeed, the only thing Iran has received in return for its commitment is terrible sanctions. As a result of the races, parliamentary elections will be held in Iran in 15 days, around 21 or 22 February 2020, and most "moderate" candidates have been excluded from the race. The regime's "hards" are therefore taking over because at some point there is adventurism, unilateral decisions that are taken and ruining years of negotiation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u80	Minister, I agree with Mr Ben Accour's reply. The American confrontation policy has only weakened the moderate forces in Iran and has therefore proved completely counterproductive. Our group calls not only on our country but also on the EU not to engage in such a confrontation policy and to opt for dialogue and an autonomous and strategic position vis-à-vis Iran. At the same time, we support the activation of the dispute mechanism, because it is a lever to sit at the negotiating table. Activating that mechanism allows us to sit around the table with an important position, including for the EU. From there, we can work on agreements and rebuild confidence, regardless of what the United States is doing. That's an opportunity that can be important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u81	Madam Chair, Minister, this past January 9 was a very sad day. Indeed, five years ago, today, Saudi blogger Raif Badawi was living his first flogging session. On this occasion, like others, I participated in the action organized by Amnesty International in front of the gates of the Embassy of Saudi Arabia in order to request his release. According to information available to the NGO, Raif Badawi and his lawyer, Waleed Abu al-Khair, have been placed in isolation under heightened security conditions since 12 December. They are said to have started a hunger strike to protest the ill-treatment they are being subjected to. Recall that Raif Badawi, winner of the Sakharov Prize in 2015, was sentenced in 2014 to ten years' imprisonment, a thousand lashes and a fine of one million Saudi rials for having, I quote, "insulted Islam". Minister, how does Belgian diplomacy follow Mr Badawi's situation? Have any contacts with the Saudi authorities taken place on this subject and, more broadly, on the defence of human rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u82	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, I share your concern about the fate of blogger Raif Badawi and his lawyer, Waleed Abu al-Khair. The Belgian Embassy in Riyadh, as well as my services in Brussels, are closely following the situation. Raif Badawi was sentenced to imprisonment and corporal punishment in Saudi Arabia. This is a penalty prohibited by the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, to which Saudi Arabia is a party. In several statements, the European Union reiterated its strong opposition to this sentence and called on the Saudi authorities to suspend all forms of corporal punishment against Raif Badawi and to consider ending the practice of beatings. I would like to point out that Belgium intervened in particular during the universal periodic review of Saudi Arabia held in November 2018. On that occasion, Belgium made recommendations, including one on the release of anyone imprisoned solely for exercising his rights to freedom of expression, freedom of association and peaceful assembly, including human rights defenders and journalists. As with all other countries, human rights are an integral part of all our bilateral discussions with Saudi authorities at all levels, including conditions of detention for individual cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u84	Madam President, Minister, 11 people killed, more than 4,400 injured, often seriously, five protesters who had a hand torn off, and 24 who lost an eye. No police officers convicted of these abominable acts, but 10,718 demonstrators arrested and 2,000 clearly politically sanctioned, 40 per cent of them having obtained from prison. For more than a year, the French population has been subjected to the brutal repression of the Macron regime. It's happening here in the West. Not in Africa, not in the Middle East, but in our neighbours. This gratuitous and arbitrary violence against the French people must be strongly condemned. In February 2019, UN experts denounced serious restrictions on the rights of demonstrators in France. In March 2019, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights called for an investigation into the excessive violence of the French State. The European Parliament also voted on Resolution 2019/2569 on 14 February 2019 to "declare the use of violent and disproportionate interventions by public authorities during peaceful protests and demonstrations". On the other hand, since it is a European country, a member of NATO, there has been no condemnation on the part of the European Commission, the United Nations Security Council, or the Western governments, yet so quick to condemn repression elsewhere in the world. Belgium also did not condemn this violence in France. However, when it comes to non-European countries, such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Belgium condemns "the very violent repression of demonstrations" and does not hesitate to stress that "the European Union must remain very attentive to the situation" by calling for the use of violence to be proportionate, in order to avoid the slippages that have been experienced. Minister, what initiatives has the government already taken or intends to take as a temporary member of the UN Security Council? Is he considering adopting a resolution recommending measures to put an end to the terrible repression and condemn the Macron government's contempt for its people? What actions has the Belgian Government taken or intends to take in this direction as a Member State of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u85	Madam President, as a preamble, if I may, I would like to remain for a quarter of an hour, since there are still a lot of questions to be exhausted. Mr Boukili, France is a party to the main international instruments for the protection of human rights and to their monitoring mechanism, both at the United Nations and at the Council of Europe and at the European Union. Where appropriate, appropriate decisions will be taken in these forums. In addition, at the national level, France has an independent judiciary responsible for implementing existing human rights standards and ensuring that their violation is condemned and punished. I would also like to remind you that the role of the Security Council is, first and foremost, to maintain international peace and security and to deal exclusively with the issues threatening them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answer. With regard to the Security Council, I would like to join you. However, the European Union – and Belgium in particular – has already taken a stand against violence against demonstrators in other countries. In this case, they are flagrant, as is evident from the number of wounded I have cited. Thus, more than 20 people had their eyes torn. Various international institutions have condemned these acts. It is grave that our country does not stand firmly against this violence, which endangers the right to demonstrate and express itself – even if France claims to respect human rights. In this case, since the protests began more than a year ago, these rights have been violated by police violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u87	Minister, I would like to refer to the Human Rights Watch (HRW) Global Annual Report, released on January 15, which in its introduction focuses on China's failure to respect human rights. When the text was presented to the press, HRW's director, Kenneth Roth, said that the Chinese government was conducting an intense offensive against the global human rights system. Human Rights Watch describes, I quote, a "tentacular police state, striving to exercise total control over society". More worrying, he noted that Beijing was trying to extend its censorship beyond the country's borders. Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. In our bilateral diplomatic relations, is respect for human rights addressed? You have already answered this question in part, even very widely. Could you clarify the message that our diplomacy conveys in this context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u88	Mr Ben Achour, I share your concern about the human rights situation in China. Belgium does not hesitate to express its concern about this. In our bilateral relations with China, this issue is regularly addressed at various meetings. During such meetings, Belgium expresses its concern at the various human rights violations in China, such as the situation of ethno-religious minorities, the situation of human rights defenders, the steering of a social credit system and also regarding the impact of China on human rights beyond the country, for example with regard to persons residing in Belgium. Our country also intervened in the universal periodic review of China in November 2018. It is a specific mechanism of the United Nations Human Rights Council, under which each country is subject to in-depth review. On this occasion, the various Member States address questions and recommendations concerning the human rights situation in the country under consideration. In this regard, Belgium has formulated questions and recommendations concerning the death penalty, the situation of human rights defenders and ethno-religious minorities, the overly broad and vague definitions of the National Security Council in recent laws, the ratification of international human rights treaties and China's cooperation with United Nations special rapporteurs. Furthermore, Belgium raises these issues multilaterally and at European Union level, where our country continues to give its political support to raise the issue of respect for human rights with the Chinese authorities. Finally, I can confirm that we will continue to raise human rights issues both in our bilateral and multilateral meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u89	I had no doubt about your answer and obviously share it in terms of content. I simply think that it will have to be accompanied by other types of action, perhaps more concrete and more comprehensive as well. The offensive against human rights defenders and journalists, too, is not only evident in China. I have already asked your predecessor about the same kind of action taken by the Israeli Government against human rights defenders in the Palestinian territories. It is also seen elsewhere in the world: the offensive is global and worrying. It is also accompanied by the rise of populism and nationalism everywhere. All this must constantly awaken our attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u90	Mr Lacroix is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u91	Minister, at the beginning of this month Chancellor Merkel once again called for the resumption of a European rescue mission in the Mediterranean, along the lines of Operation Sophia. The President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, also expressed support for this plan last year. Last week, Mr Josep Borell also expressed his support for a new deployment of European naval vessels in the Mediterranean. I heard that this plan may already be in operation, that there is a new operation called Sophia. Was Belgian government contacted regarding the restart of Operation Sophia? Was this discussed at European level? Do you consider such an operation useful and necessary? What impact do you expect this possible resumption to have on the asylum influx?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u92	Madam President, the ongoing EU consultations aim to strengthen support for the UN negotiations for a cease-fire and the peace agreement between the warring parties in Libya. It is in the direct interest of the European Union and of Belgium that Libya should be able to restore peace and stability and resume its normal state mission, including control over its borders. A strengthened role of the EU in that diplomatic and political process requires an integrated approach including, but not limited to, the deployment of military and civil resources. The enhanced use of military means, including maritime, whether or not as the activated Sophia operation, is envisaged, with the task of strengthening the monitoring of respect for the arms embargo and the embargo on the illicit trade in petroleum, as well as the strengthening of the Libyan Coast Guard. Later, this commitment could be extended to ensure respect for a ceasefire and direct support for the United Nations in the implementation of a peace agreement. The discussion at political level continued yesterday, on 17 February, at the EU External Relations Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u93	Minister, Operation Sophia was launched a few years ago with the aim of combating arms smuggling and restricting trafficking in human beings. In the end, this mission proved to be mainly a ferry service for some 50 000 illegal immigrants to Europe, with the side effect of which we should not forget, above all, an increase in the number of drowning deaths in the Mediterranean. At least it's a pity. It could have been different, on a different level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u94	Minister, the former head of the Mossos d'Esquadra, Josep Lluís Trapero, is in prison for 11 years. Although he has consistently rejected the many calls to become politically active, to give interviews and to play a public role in recent years and months, he is still on trial for collusion with the then regional government of Carles Puigdemont. The Spanish Public Prosecutor blames former Commissioner Trapero for not allowing his agents to use violence against voters during the Catalan independence referendum in 2017, as the national police did and as ordered by the national government. The initiation of a trial against him is yet another intimidation of the Spanish establishment. Minister, what is your attitude towards yet another political process? Did you have any contact with the Spanish ambassador on this matter? Does the federal government condemn yet another intimidation on the part of the Catalan people?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u95	Ms. Samyn, Major Trapero is being prosecuted for a violation of the Spanish penal code. It is difficult to speak of a political process when, as you say, the person concerned has not taken on a public political role. Belgium is not an interested party to the trial of a Spanish national by the Spanish justice system. There was therefore no contact with the Spanish ambassador in Belgium about the trial. This strictly domestic matter does not require intervention from Belgium. Major Trapero awaits a fair trial. The term intimidation does not seem to me to be the issue here. Furthermore, the process concerns an individual named Major Trapero, who does not pose as a representative of the Catalan people. The case concerns an internal Spanish case, on which Belgium should not rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. In my view, it is a Catalan political process. Spain is trying to corner Catalonia in another political process.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u97	Minister, while on 26 January last it was Évariste Ndayishimiye, secretary-general of the ruling party, who was nominated as the party candidate for the presidential election, the political situation in Burundi is more critical than ever. The government is leading an unprecedented wave of repression against people who are trying to shed light on abuses or to inform about sensitive issues. Prosecutions, threats and intimidation have forced many activists and journalists to stop working on sensitive political or human rights issues and even leave the country. At the end of January, four journalists were sentenced to two and a half years in prison following an irregular trial. Minister, on the occasion of a conference in which I had the honour of taking part, a few weeks ago, devoted to genocides, Master Maingain, lawyer for many victims of this Burundian repression, warned against a situation which he called pre-genocidaire on the spot, a threat which the NGO SOS Torture/Burundi also highlights. This situation is of particular concern and we cannot remain indifferent to it. Mr Minister, as far as this pregenocide situation is concerned, are you aware of any concrete elements in this direction? Have you had any discussions with your European colleagues about this situation? If so, are measures envisaged to avoid a new tragedy in the region? If not, should such exchanges not, in your opinion, take place in the short term? What role can our country play in this process? With regard to next May's election, all indicators show that the conditions are not in place to guarantee a democratic election. What is Belgium's position on this reality? What levers do we have, alone or with other European countries, to work towards meeting these conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u98	Dear colleague, I thank you for your questions on the situation in Burundi in the run-up to the elections. The ongoing electoral process, if successful, will ensure stability and consolidate democracy in Burundi. However, a number of challenges remain. You asked the question of ethnic tensions: the situation of the Tutsis is indeed difficult. The 2018 Constitution erases virtually all Arusha acquisitions that allowed the Tutsis to have guaranteed places in the institutions and to play a role in the management of the country. The Tutsi were also marginalized in the army where they were traditionally strong. However, I will not go forward to say that Burundi is in a pre-genocidal situation. Thus, the violence we see in the electoral process is mainly directed against CNL militants, who are largely Hutu. The crisis remains above all political. Nevertheless, the history of Burundi and the region invites us to pay particular attention to ethnic issues and some hate speech, with ethnic connotations, has indeed been reported to us in recent months. In our contacts with the authorities, we ask them to take all necessary measures to ease tensions. The party's Secretary General and new CNDD candidate announced a few measures at the end of August, but unfortunately we see that violent incidents continue to fuel the electoral process. You are asking the question of the actions that Belgium and its partners in the international community can take to ensure the smooth running of the electoral process. I would like to say that the Burundian authorities have largely excluded the international community from the electoral process by refusing any external funding and any European or American observer mission. That does not mean that we can't do anything. We Europeans have an important lever in Article 96. The measures of suspension of Article 96 aid adopted in March 2016 are intended to encourage the Burundian authorities to make progress in a number of areas such as political openness, human rights and fundamental freedoms. In recent weeks, we have seen a willingness on the part of the Burundian government to come back to the table to discuss these issues. We will be responsible for explaining to them that free and peaceful elections will be a fundamental step towards the lifting of Article 96 measures. We are also taking advantage of our presence in the United Nations Security Council to keep Burundi on the Council's agenda. Our objective is to organize an informal interactive dialogue on Burundi. You are also asking the question of a possible postponement of the elections. It would be a sovereign decision of the Burundian authorities, but I do not think they wish to do so because it would place the current institutions in a situation of constitutional illegitimacy. The objective of all our efforts is always to have free and inclusive elections in May, even though we are aware of the many obstacles on this path. A good indicator will be the registration process for candidates, which is scheduled to begin on February 25. Finally, I can assure you that the situation in Burundi is subject to regular consultations with our European partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u99	Minister, thank you for your answers. As part of our participation in the United Nations Security Council, I invite you to remain extremely vigilant in the situation in Central Africa. We know the painful episodes of the past. Lessons are to be learned and I have no doubt that you will be attentive to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u100	Question No 55003266C by Mr. De Maegd is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u101	Madam President, Minister, on 22 January last, on the margins of the World Economic Forum in Davos, the President of the European Commission said that the conclusion of a trade agreement between the European Union and the United States was a possibility by adding that it could intervene quickly, even mentioning a period of a few weeks. She stressed that the agreement would encompass trade, as well as the technology and energy sectors. The day before, Donald Trump had also confirmed that talks were under way. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to tell us what the status of these negotiations is and what the position Belgium stands for in the European Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u102	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, President Juncker and President Trump agreed in July 2018 on a joint statement, which is the basis of the positive agenda pursued during the trade relations between Europe and the United States. Two negotiating mandates for conformity assessment for tariff negotiations for non-agricultural goods were granted by the Council of Member States of the European Union in April 2019. At the same time, the Commission is continuing discussions on certain aspects of regulatory cooperation which have been identified as likely to produce rapid results. A sense of urgency, due to U.S. tariff pressure, guides these discussions, which, however, have not been successful. The United States is our main economic and commercial partner, an ally of always and an important investor. The Belgian position is, however, to call for caution and vigilance, especially if the discussions concern sanitary and phytosanitary aspects, standards and standards and the agricultural sectors. We do not want our standards and food security to be negatively impacted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u103	Minister, thank you for that answer. I am relatively reassured to hear the points of vigilance that you have indicated. I also believe that, in general, the free trade agreements as we have known them are largely obsolete, given our commitments, particularly in the climate field. What is difficult here with the United States is the readability of the Trump administration's policy, which negotiates a free trade agreement and, at the same time, threatens the European automotive industries, in particular, to increase taxes by 25%. There were threats on Airbus (from 10 to 15% as of March 18). This way of blowing hot and cold is sometimes difficult to follow. It may be a way of putting Europe under pressure. Of course, we must not give in to this pressure and negotiate in complete peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-18-55-commissie-ic113x.u104	Thank you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the meeting.
