ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u2	Mr President, may I suggest that this be done at the end of the session but before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u3	That's right. Everyone is warned that at some point there are votes. This is the best time for this debate, at the end of the session, when it also comes to adopting the agenda for next week. Is there a consensus in this regard? [[Oui]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are outraged and concerned. It is outraged that a number of important measures remain in place in the fight against the corona crisis. Concerned because our country does not seem prepared in any way or is in a second wave and because the absence of a number of measures threatens to increase the curve again. Now take wearing a mouth mask in stores. The virologists are in favour, the World Health Organization is in favour, today asks the High Health Council, our national experts, to oblige them, the popular support is large and shopkeepers are asking party. What does Mrs. De Block say? She says she'll set it up next week and discuss it. Madam Prime Minister, in corona time, a week is an eternity. That measure, that obligation, must now be put in place. Secondly, Belgians travel abroad. The borders opened on 15 June. Only yesterday were the first measures taken for people returning from high-risk areas. Today there is no card with red and orange. Apparently, people in this country today find that people who are travelling return as well. I don't understand. I know, Madam Prime Minister, that you are not responsible for everything. I do think that a number of measures are insisting, that the uncertainties should cease, that the steering wheel should be taken in hand. Ecolo-Green is not a group with easy criticism. I haven't been here much in the last few months. We are a group of cooperation and solutions. Just that, Madam Prime Minister, is lacking at the moment. That is why I ask you, as Prime Minister, who has a great deal of support in society, to cut those buttons. Make those mouth masks mandatory in the shops and ensure a clear policy for Belgians travelling and thus returning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u5	Mr. Chair, Madam Prime Minister, I have asked the Minister of Health four times about our plan to re-establish in the event of a possible second wave of the epidemic. Four times, and I never got an answer. However, I believe that our citizens have the right to receive answers in the light of the current epidemiological situation. Indeed, even if the epidemiological curve is flattened in our country, at the same time we are seeing reconfinations in Germany, Portugal, Spain or Morocco. Let us be clear: our citizens are entitled to a holiday and need it more than ever, especially after the crisis we have just experienced. The past few months have been challenging for everyone, especially for workers, self-employed people, families, isolated people and students. Today, our role - and especially yours - is to frame these holidays in order to avoid them opening the door wide to a second wave. Of course, we will probably be better prepared than in March. We have just learned that a colour code had been assigned to the different holiday areas and that a circular had been sent to the hospitals in order to prepare them as best as possible for this famous second wave. All this must not make us forget one fundamental point: our healthcare staff is exhausted and does not have to endure a second wave. To inflict this second wave would be a real waste and, above all, a lack of respect for these people and for all the work they have done so far. Do all the actors concerned know exactly what we expect of them in the event of a second wave? Of course, I am thinking of hospital staff, but also of nursing homes, general practitioners, nurses, pharmacists, burgers, restaurateurs and shopkeepers who may, overnight, have to close their doors again, as we have seen in some countries. On the basis of which indicators could a reconfinition plan be triggered and how will it be implemented? By geographical area, by municipality or by district? Is tracing now - despite the flaws we know - making it possible to detect new outbreaks of contamination? Finally, do we have strategic reserves of protective equipment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u6	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, since yesterday, the question has been on all the lips, in any case for citizens who have the chance, the time or the possibility to take a few days off abroad. Are we leaving? Aren't we leaving? What is the colour of the intended destination? Is there a risk of quarantine? Can we get a refund? A month ago, we sent people the message that we were going to save the tourist season while protecting the workers. We announced the reopening of the borders. Then it took another month. It took the reconfinition of certain areas in Europe, the warnings of some experts, a meeting of the RMG convened in emergency at the request of the Regions to start to have a little more details on the modalities. Madam Prime Minister, one element seems indispensable to me. That's consistency. The same sanctions, the same rules and the same control procedures must apply to all, be they Brussels, Walloon or Flemish. If a quarantine measure is imposed on the return of a risk zone, this rule should be enforceable, whether Belgian or non-Belgian. It is therefore the federal responsibility to coordinate, harmonize and ensure coherence and effectiveness. At the same time, there is a need to bring clarity to travellers without further delay. The setting up of a color code is indeed a positive element, but we must be able to continue working on other elements. This morning, tour operators and consumer associations were unable to tell whether a traveller who planned to go to the orange zone will have the opportunity to cancel and get a refund. However, this is an issue that we believe is essential. Uncertain is also the question of whether a quarantined traveller will be entitled to temporary unemployment or other compensation. Prime Minister, it is July 9 and many people have already gone abroad. However, there are many uncertainties and a lot of confusion. We also lacked anticipation. I therefore invite you to make all the necessary clarifications quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u7	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, if many Belgians have actually decided to take a little rest and go on holiday, most of them in Europe and therefore not too far from our borders, it is precisely because they have, for the most part, regained confidence. I would like to point out that the figures are relatively good in Belgium and that Belgians are vigilant and also informed. At the end of this Wednesday's consultation committee, we learned that Belgium is putting in place a colour code to inform and clarify the areas at risk and the areas where one can visit. First of all, there are green areas: no problem, we can go. This concerns most of the countries close to us. There are also red zones: these are areas at risk where it is forbidden to go. It's very clear for tour operators. And finally, there are the orange areas that are less clear because it can be a region in orange zone but some cities in red zone. It is therefore a little less obvious for tour operators but also for tourists themselves. It must be stressed that we are the only country to have introduced such a code in order to really inform and bring all the transparency to the Belgians. But some things may have to be specified to tour operators. What about refunds if people go to the orange zone? Can they send tourists to an area that would be a little further than the area at risk? It seems useful to me to make some clarifications, in any case as regards the orange areas. For the rest, all information is given. I read that Foreign Affairs website was updated in the course of the day. We'll finally know where to go safely on vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, after months of stress and restrictions on our citizens, it is finally time to get some rest. Looking for peace is best done with good guidelines, with directives that we all understand. Today, the guidelines on various websites, both at European level and on the Belgian website of Foreign Affairs, are still not clear to many travellers. Yesterday it was decided to use color codes. That seems clear, with red, orange and green, yet there are still a lot of travelers looking today. Travel bans will also be possible. If you book a trip today, you are not sure that you will be able to leave in two or three weeks' time. As far as the testing strategy is concerned, there are also many questions. We have a test capacity of 50,000 a day. Why can we not make more efforts to ensure that passengers who have been travelling can return home safely? I therefore have some very specific questions. I am very pleased with the communication from the past few weeks, but there are a few pertinent questions that keep our citizens awake. What took you so long to prepare us for the holidays? The GEES had already advised us to prepare travel advice on 10 June. When is the full list of coloured zones available? If there is a travel ban, how will we impose it and enforce it on our citizens who already travel today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u9	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, five months after the arrival of VOCID-19 in Belgium, one month after the GEES scientists told the National Security Council that a procedure had to be laid down for the return of Belgian tourists to the country, and whereas since June different European regions had had to reconfinish, at least one could expect that there would be anticipation, rigour and a clear framework. And what do we see, a month after the opening of the borders? Anything else. Total improvisation, blurryness, and a very bad ping-pong game between different governments. We just have the impression that no lessons have been learned from the return of the Carnival holidays. You're gonna tell me the situation isn't the same. You are right: the situation is not the same, since at that time you could still try to play the surprise. But today, of course, you can't say you didn't know. Of course, the concertation committee has defined the famous colour codes. But at the same time, the map on the Foreign Affairs website is not up to date. No one seems to know who is competent, whether for quarantine or sanctions. Anyway, it's boxing. Madam Prime Minister, why did it take until July 7th to move? Why didn't you anticipate and follow the advice of the experts? When will decisions be made? Will they be uniform throughout the country? When will the information be reliable, particularly on the Foreign Affairs website? I've got a few seconds left. I cannot fail to mention here a dossier which I have already repeated and repeated, which I have already pleaded and pleaded. If I say that again today, it is because the recommendation of the Higher Health Council has just fallen. She wants to make it mandatory to wear the mask in stores. I've been convinced of that for a long time. This gesture can help control the spread of the virus. Madam Prime Minister, I try again and again: will you, yes or no, move forward in this direction? This little gesture, if we all apply it, everyone can win it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u10	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, what chaos! After the saga of the masks, after the saga of the tests, here we are at the sketch of the holiday returns. On 4 July two regions of Spain were reconfined. We thought a plan had been drawn up. Indeed, if we have learned one thing well, it is that the epidemic started in our country with the return of ski holidaymakers and that the issue has not been properly managed. If things had been better managed, perhaps we would not have been confronted with the health crisis that we have experienced. We therefore hoped that a plan for travellers returning from risk areas had been drawn up, as well as a plan clearly indicating whether or not to go on vacation, since the borders have been open since 15 June. However, it must be noted that such a plan does not exist. Frankly, Prime Minister, I do not understand how this can be possible. At all the meetings in which you participated on crisis management, was there no one to draw attention to the need to have a plan for holiday returns in order to avoid being confronted again with the same situation? Apparently not. No plan! Worse still, Madam Prime Minister, since June 3rd, and not since June 24th, as Mrs De Block has tried to make us believe this Tuesday in the Health Committee, a GEES report was available. You have surrounded yourself with experts who you have asked to write reports to advise you on how to define our country. A full page of the report (cf. On page 7) is devoted to the issue of travel. It states that a plan is required, that clear travel advice is required for each region. It also states that data on an increase in the epidemic or not should be clearly indicated. It recommends that about 40 people return from regions where the epidemic is increasing. My question is very clear, Madam Prime Minister: why didn't you do anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u11	Mr President, the summer holiday period is indeed conducive to travel abroad, and the confinement to which we have been subjected in the context of the health crisis undoubtedly makes this desire we have to move more significant. Nevertheless, as we repeat, the virus has not disappeared. It is still circulating and new outbreaks of contamination have emerged in several of our neighbouring countries, pushing the authorities to re-establish certain communes or even certain regions. It is therefore essential to remain vigilant, to learn about the epidemiological situation of summer destinations and, in any event, to continue to respect the barriers that are or should be well known. First of all, let me recall the restrictions still in force on travel. The aim is to distinguish between essential and non-essential travel at the outset. I would point out that the National Security Council has already clearly regulated non-essential travel abroad, strictly limiting the list of countries accessible to Belgian nationals to European Member States and/or members of the Schengen area, i.e. to 31 countries in total. For each of these countries, a travel notice is already available on the Foreign Affairs website. This opinion already contains the colour codes to verify the extent to which a move to that country is possible, is possible with certain reservations, or is not possible at the moment. As a precautionary measure, the Consultation Committee, which met yesterday in the presence of the experts from GEES, defined a general approach to restrictions and recommendations on travel abroad by Belgians, given the resurgence of the virus in certain areas initially considered safe. In this approach, the distinction between red, orange and green zones remains. It is intended to refine and split the lists, in order to ensure inter alia quarantine and testing, by municipality, zone, region or country. These codes will probably be published on the Foreign Affairs website today. Areas where the epidemiological situation is very unfavourable or where the authorities have had to introduce new containment measures should be considered red. Belgium is therefore issuing a formal travel ban for this purpose. Travellers who nevertheless return from these zones will be treated as high risk contacts. This means that they must be tested and quarantined by a doctor. The doctor will also deliver a certificate of quarantine. This certificate will give access to a system of temporary unemployment and/or bridging rights. Areas for which no or low health risk has been identified on the basis of a CELEVAL opinion shall be considered green. No special restrictions will be imposed on these areas, but the precautionary measures will of course continue to apply. Of course, there are also areas where the situation is unfavourable, but not yet very unfavourable, and where a colour code had to be given to make people aware of the need to be vigilant. These zones get the color code orange. This distinction has the advantage that there is no too brutal transition from green to red. In these areas, the CELEVAL opinion will also be based on objective epidemiological criteria and follow-up of the health policy pursued. For these areas, Belgium will advise against travelling. Travellers returning from these areas will be advised to be tested and quarantined. Of course, this is done by a doctor. Questions on tour operators will be answered by Mrs Muylle. The list of the different zones should be updated as soon as possible by the CELEVAL experts and updated on the Foreign Affairs website. This will be updated regularly. The first update will probably happen today. CELEVAL is a common work. I repeat that CELEVAL is made up of health experts, including virologists, staff from the Interior, but also representatives from the Länder. The regions and the German-speaking Community, which are responsible for prevention policy, must establish the legal framework for making testing and quarantine compulsory for high-risk contacts. The intention is, of course, that there should be a coordinated policy. That is what is desirable, Mr Prévot, and that is what we have agreed on. Then I come to the issue of mandatory wearing of a mouth mask. As I announced after the last meeting of the National Security Council, the experts of the GEES are working on this. They will advise the National Security Council on this on Wednesday. Until then, we will continue to follow their most recent advice. I am sure they will take into account the advice of the High Health Council. The first thing to do to prepare a second wave is to do everything to avoid it. That is why we continue to restrict the freedoms of our fellow citizens. Let us not forget, unfortunately, the freedoms are still not 100% found. I hear those who plead that we should be at the same time attentive to a second wave and that we should open up the whole of the activities! We're trying to be consistent. The situation is difficult at the individual, collective and economic levels, but we must continue to do so, and it is about the health of all. I would point out, as far as federal jurisdiction is concerned, that despite the scale of the crisis that we have just undergone, hospitals have not been saturated. As a result, health care workers have been subjected to severe stress. At the peak of the crisis, however, the occupancy rate of intensive care units did not exceed 58 per cent throughout the country, which is quite different from what has unfortunately been experienced in other countries. Hospitals had organized themselves appropriately in relation to the issues at stake. Based on this experience, the hospital plan was adapted to the lessons learned from this first and painful experience. With regard to the provision of protective equipment, I would remind you that 100 million surgical masks and 2 million FFP2 masks have already been distributed. At the end of August, the strategic stock will be 200 million surgical masks – double what was needed during the first crisis – and 33 million FFP2 masks. All this, not to mention the stocks of equipment and protections that are still available in hospitals, nursing homes and other actors in the field. In the current phase, it is essential to manage quickly what is known as potential local resurgences and to do so, a resurgence management policy must be put in place. These are regional competences, as I recall, and the Interministerial Conference has worked on framework agreements and protocols to ensure coherence of strategies across the various federated entities, even though they remain, of course, responsible for drawing up their own plans. Moreover, you are aware that the inter-federal platform for testing and tracing has also been set up. Of course, this policy must be able to evolve according to the epidemiological situation. The so-called "second-wave" strategy also includes other aspects such as front-line management, communication and the supply of medicines - all of which must be brought together in a general vision, in collaboration with the federated entities. The federal and the latter have met regularly since the beginning of the crisis. We will continue to do so, in the collective interest. Indeed, even if we live in a country that is particularly complex at the institutional level, which, it is true, sometimes hinders us - and it is always a little easy to point fingers at one or a colleague - the difficulty is there, but we have crossed it together. It is our intention to continue this joint work in the same direction, because it is about the safety and health of our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u12	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I agree with certain parts of your reply. You are right to applaud the resilience and efforts people have made in recent months in our residential care centres, hospitals and companies. There has also been titanic work in politics. Just because we can taste that freedom again, it is a pity that a number of measures are not being taken now, it is a pity that a number of things remain unclear. That's bad, even for the support. You say we live in a complex country. That's right. I myself have very strong ideas about this. However, people do not have a message about this at the moment. Sometimes it is not difficult, when the advice pours in, to force mouth masks in shops and crowded places. You hold a zoom meeting with all the entities and you just agree to that. Then Mrs. De Block won't say we'll wait another week. Mrs. De Block says we'll discuss this next week. Madam Prime Minister, that is an eternity. I don't understand. It is understandable that such mistakes were made in March, when we did not know Corona, but today we know Corona. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u13	Prime Minister, to govern is to manage. This means, in particular, imposing the wearing of the mask - as we have been asking you for several months - but also predicting. Indeed, as Mr. Yves Van Laethem explained a few days ago, we must be able to extinguish the local homes in order to prevent this wave from spreading across the country. In this case, it is no more or less a matter of learning from the crisis that we have just experienced. Parliament will do this in the framework of the new parliamentary committee on coronavirus, but the government must do this too. Instead, at least as far as the reconfinition plan is concerned, you persist in this incomprehensible ping-pong game for the population: you keep sending the ball back to federated entities, whether for masks, for testing or for tracing contacts. I know very well that managing this crisis is not easy - which is why we have supported you under the special powers - but it will be necessary for the government to put order in this cacophony which has lasted long enough!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u14	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for taking stock of the situation. I am the first to say that the situation is difficult because it is scalable and your role is obviously not easy. Far be it from me to point this or that. I recalled earlier the need to have a pilot and a federal government in a position to coordinate for consistency. I relied in particular on a letter sent on 27 February by SPF Santé publique: "Although the federal level is no longer legally competent to decree this type of measure, it coordinates the approach envisaged within the three Communities at both national and international level. This is all the more justified in order to avoid different responses to the same situation, which could raise questions of consistency in the perception of the situation by the media, the public or within the political world." It was in the same spirit of consistency that I called for federal ownership and management because having an up-to-date list of destinations is not impossible. Clarifying the legal consequences of a stay in a risk zone in terms of restriction of freedom, movement, in terms of consumer rights, are also federal responsibilities. Of course, you must take this into account in order to give a clear answer to all those people who still have legitimate questions about this travel problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, thank you. You said something important. When you deal with a crisis like this, you have to do the part. This extremely tenuous balance must be struck between the freedom that we hold so much to and the binding measures that we must take to avoid a resurgence of the pandemic. Thank you because it is important to recall that you allow this colour code to guide the Belgians. You've allowed tourists who want to go and look like they know where to go without constraint and they've understood it. All you have to do is to see the reservations made in the countries that are extremely close, in the green areas or within Belgium itself. You've clarified things. You have given - and Belgium is the only country to do so - codes to guide Belgians. Moreover, it must never be forgotten that prevention is a regional competence. It may also be useful to remind him sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm happy with what I've heard. I hope that the measures you have just mentioned will help to remove the ambiguity among the citizens. I would also like to assist you in the statement by which you put an end to your plea: it is true that this crisis will certainly not be remedied by pointing the finger. We're counting on you as a captain to get us through this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. What is terrible in this case is this succession of late decisions that concerned masks, protective equipment, testing, tracing, and now holiday returns. That's a lot! We were not ready for the arrival of the VOCID-19, but we are still not, despite all the recommendations of the scientists. The absence of a plan for the return of Belgian tourists from abroad is emblematic of your total improvisation, which persists after several months. At the same time, we must stick together and do everything we can to avoid a second wave, the emergence of clusters upon the return of tourists, and to avoid reconfigurations. Between strong prevention measures and re-defining, we have the choice, and we have time to choose. But today, it's more than time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u18	Madam Prime Minister, I am really disappointed with your answer, which is not one. I asked you why you did not follow the advice contained in the June 3 note addressed to you. You did not answer me, because you know that you are wrong and that you did not follow this recommendation. I think it's serious, because you're taking what's going on in the field lightly. We general practitioners were bombarded with phone calls this Monday, because people don't know if they can go on vacation and wonder if they should be tested. We have not received any protocol nor have we been aware of any measure. There's no plan. This is outrageous! All the light must be made. And, above all, you have to change your policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u19	Madam Prime Minister, yesterday the European Commission published economic figures: it is clear that our country has suffered the greatest contraction since the Second World War. This proves once again the need for a fully-fledged government, which you are asking for week after week, Madam Prime Minister. For the occasion, I have attracted my Arizonadas in the hope that it might be able to teach something. Madam Prime Minister, we are going through a difficult period and you have now consulted an expert committee to start the revival, things have to happen. But corona pandemic or not, the economic pains of our country remain the same. A first pain is that there are far too few people working in our country, not only in Wallonia and Brussels, but also in Flanders. There was remarkable news today: the number of vacancies is back to the pre-corona crisis level. That means there's hope for people who lose their jobs to find a new job. Secondly, productivity is growing too slowly in our country. The OECD pointed that out yesterday and came up with alarming figures for our country. The solutions for achieving higher productivity are clear. First of all, we need to make the market work more, so that prices for consumers can fall, including in the area of telecommunications. Secondly, one should listen a little less to lobbyists who want to lower their VAT rates each. Thirdly, it is clear that our country still suffers from a high tax burden and a high level of public debt. We have worked on this in recent years, but the road is still long. The best way to bring about relance and solve that problem is not by spreading many bags of money, but by getting more people to work. Madam Prime Minister, what is the role of the minority government in relance? Based on what method did you choose the experts? What is the follow-up to your agenda for the minority government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u20	Mr President, I am wearing a blue tie today, but you cannot see a political statement in that. Madam Prime Minister, who took the Latest News today could immediately read that the corona crisis has already cost us 15 billion. Fortunately, we invented the euro, otherwise it would have been even 600 billion francs. Good, acute measures have been taken but, of course, measures have also been taken which are less justifiable. In the latter category, I am thinking of free train tickets, the extension of the pro-Deo system and some specific measures for artists. Not only is Parliament very voluntarist, very often with a very strange coalition from the left and Flemish interest; that was also true for the supercore. Madam Prime Minister, you will recall that, unfortunately, at our last meeting in that super-core, I was the only one who put the heels in the sand when it was about excessive one-off expenditure. In the meantime, you have added a point, the structural measures. That is a good thing in itself, and we are certainly asking for a better remuneration of the nursing staff. More importantly, we also believe that more hands should be attached to the bed. There are, however, a number of questions. With regard to the one-off measures, with which we have gone very far for all kinds of lobby groups, how will we finance them? Where are the pennies? Can you answer that? On structural measures, economists have warned that they will have to be financed in one way or another. Can you give us some explanation in that regard too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u21	As a result of the health crisis, we have had to take significant measures in the areas of economic support and social protection. We have taken most of the measures to address the emergency situation with the ten parties who have supported the powers of attorney. They're in effect until December 31st. The National Bank estimates the total amount of measures taken at 15 billion for the whole country. That is almost 11 billion for the federal level and just over 4 billion for the Länder. The costs are indeed considerable, but in view of the unprecedented situation we have faced, we are forced to take strong and rapid measures to minimise the impact of the crisis, in order to protect ourselves from an even greater medium-term budgetary impact. RMG's recent investigations show some improvement over expectations, in particular with regard to business figures. In any case, the situation remains very difficult for many sectors. Economic revival and revival are now at the top of the agenda. I would remind you that, when I came to ask for confidence, I made a clear commitment to prepare the relay, which should be done step by step. The first step must enable us to identify the challenges we face. It is clear that we had already identified important challenges before the crisis. These are not only exacerbated by the crisis, but also by challenges. For three weeks, I will listen to and talk to institutional representatives, representatives from academia and business, people from the field and people from civil society. Discussions will focus on three main areas: investment, protection and development. Macroeconomic evolution, economic development, social policy, cohesion, health, sustainable development and energy transition are important issues that need to be addressed. We will also have to take into account the initiatives of the Länder and of Europe to ensure coherence and complementarity. The intention is, as you may have understood, to prepare the relay plan and not to implement it. I have already stated several times in Parliament that, in order to implement a revival plan, there is a need for stability and therefore a majority government at the helm. In this way, there is also consistency with Parliament's work, which is difficult to achieve if there is no stable majority in Parliament. The formation of a future government is currently under negotiation. The work of the current government will undoubtedly shed additional light on the negotiations; it is not contradictory but complementary. Moreover, the government, including a minority government, has a duty and responsibility to continue to control the situation and prepare for the future. Mr De Roover, you are asking how the measures will be financed and what about the relaunch plan. When I asked for confidence here, I had a very limited confidence. I have no intention of violating that trust, and so I will prepare the relance plan. That is my responsibility and my duty. If everyone around the table absolutely wants us to work well together on a revival plan, which is absolutely necessary for our country, I suggest that those involved sit together and actually start working.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u22	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. We note that you absolutely want the new government to be there. Many Members in the hemisphere want that, too. Madam Prime Minister, you have replied that you want to invest, protect and develop. I would like to add a fourth dimension, namely reform. If our country wants to make all the planned investments and pay the care staff, we simply need more people to get to work. That's the right way for us to pay for all that. However, ladies and gentlemen, I admit that there is another way. That is the path of higher tax burden, even more public debt and the transfer of invoices to future generations. However, the question is whether we want to do so. Do we want to end up on the penalty bench of countries with a high deficit and debt or is our country prepared to decide what we will not do anymore? Do we want to run another telecom company? Should we beg the mail? Should we do business that the market can do perfectly? Those are the questions we need to ask, even when it comes to relance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, I note that with your residual government you show more courage when it comes to spending money than to answering the question of where it should come from. The bill has to be paid. The National Bank, the Ageing Commission, the Planning Bureau and academics point this out and public opinion also feels that all these promises will ever have to be paid for. The temptation is perhaps great to resort again to taxes and to increase our public debt again. The Communist colleagues are trying to gain more influence through the parliamentary process. In the meantime, they form a group in the Chamber. Communism is being introduced sneaking in, as we are going to have a tax system which, according to the National Bank, is already 70% of GDP in the Walloon part of the country today. I should like to congratulate Mr Hedebouw for his de facto success in Wallonia, where he has already been able to create the People's Republic. Mr Hedebouw, I can tell you that you do not find an ally in us to implement this throughout Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u24	That's it, Mr. Hedebouw, you're already half out of work!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u25	Mr President, Minister, Hong Kong is the fourth most developed region in the world. It is fourth in the United Nations Human Development Index. This is thanks, among other things, to his respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. The impact of what the People's Republic of China has decided and is currently implementing will undoubtedly have disastrous consequences for Hong Kong. It threatens to break down the rule of law and it muzzles democracy and human rights. Violence is not abhorred either. Due to the extradition treaty that Belgium concluded with China in 2018, we threaten to cooperate indirectly. China claims that it is an internal matter, but one can ask serious questions about it. After all, China is violating international law, but also its own legal system, which establishes one country and two systems in relation to Hong Kong. In addition, Hong Kong is also a global financial center with an important trading hub and a port that is twice the size of Antwerp. The persistent repression of freedoms in Hong Kong will be widespread. The Open Vld Group is very concerned about this. It creates uncertainty about the functioning of the rule of law in Hong Kong. It is therefore of the utmost importance to engage in dialogue with China. This dialogue must be credible, in accordance with international agreements and with our partners in the European Union. Minister, are you or Belgium already in contact with other European Member States regarding our attitude to the extradition treaty? In doing so, we must bear in mind what happened in Canada and Australia. If not, will you take initiative in the near future? How do we really see European coordination, which is important in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u26	Mr President, Minister, the Security Act for Hong Kong, recently adopted by the Communist regime in the People's Republic of China, is a direct attack on democracy and human rights. The Flemish interest has repeatedly pointed this out in this House, and what has turned out to be the case? Only hours after the effective adoption of the law, everyone's fear became true and many citizens in Hong Kong were arrested on the basis of that new law. As if that were not bad enough, this minority government, which claims to be concerned and raises the situation in various international fora, has in practice been indirectly involved in the persecution practices of the Chinese regime. Although we all know how the communist regime deals with dissident votes against the regime, although we know that numerous dissidents residing in Europe are being spied on by China, put under pressure and threatened outright, this government, Belgium has agreed to an extradition treaty with China, an ultimate stick behind the door of the regime, making it easier for dissidents to be extradited to the People's Republic. That treaty has already been implemented and can be initiated at any time by Beijing, with all its consequences. A number of countries already feel the mood and have already denounced the extradition treaty. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Will this government finally make a strong case for China's repression with the Hong Kong Security Act? Will this government respond to the request of the European Parliament delegation to stop the existing extradition treaty with China?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u27	You will not be surprised, Minister, that the people's right to self-determination is at our heart. We are not in favour of China or against China, but we do want Hong Kong to retain its autonomy. To this end, we had received guarantees from China in the agreement with the United Kingdom on the system of one country, two systems. Today we see how much the word of China is worth. Europe can now raise an admonition to China, but I would like to remind you that we must do this internally in Europe. Today is a thousand days when democratically elected political representatives are imprisoned in Catalonia. With regard to this issue, we could ask you to call on the Chinese ambassador to raise this matter at European level. The latter has to be done anyway. However, we have something concrete in our hands, in particular the extradition treaty with China. That is the real leverage we have at our disposal. If there is a risk that the extradition treaty between Belgium and China could be applied against the dissidents from Hong Kong under the current Security Act, we must reject it. If the application of the extradition treaty would be more beneficial to them than to us, then we should use it as leverage. Hence my very specific question: do you want to use the current extradition agreement as the ultimate asset in the European resistance to what is happening in Hong Kong?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Minister Goffin's answer to your questions. For several months, Belgium has joined the many European declarations and initiatives on the Chinese authorities, expressing the concerns of the European Union and its Member States regarding the new Security Act in Hong Kong, as well as the potential negative impact on the preservation of one country, two systems, the high degree of autonomy of Hong Kong, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and independence of justice. On every occasion, the European Union and its Member States reiterated the importance of China's compliance with international law and commitments, and in particular the Chinese-British Agreement of 1984, as well as the provisions of the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which are also included in the Hong Kong Basic Law and which should be further applied. The agreement you mentioned with China was discussed during the previous legislature and approved by this Parliament on 8 November 2018. I would therefore like to refer you to the debates during this discussion, including the need to fight, including from Belgium, against certain forms of crime. The Convention has not yet entered into force because China has not yet notified or transmitted ratification. There have been no extraditions between Belgium and China. The Convention contains clearly defined mandatory and optional grounds for refusal and guarantees. Extradition cannot happen when it comes to political crimes. The same applies to requests from racial, ethnic, religious or political motives. The ban on the death penalty is also included. There are explicit guarantees that the persons concerned may not be subjected to torture, dishonor or inhumane treatment. These grounds for refusal correspond to the Belgian law on extradition. When the Belgian authorities receive a request for extradition or transfer, they are always seriously analysed and treated with caution. In general, relations between Belgium and China are based on a constructive but critical commitment, but also on a principle-based pragmatism. I therefore think it appropriate to maintain the dialogue with China, including with regard to the Hong Kong dossier. I assure you that Foreign Affairs will continue to monitor closely developments in the situation in Hong Kong, in close cooperation with the EU and other like-minded partners. After all, the European Union remains the most efficient channel for expressing our interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You rightly say that Europe has expressed its concern about the situation in Hong Kong, but it is important that we remain critical, including about the extradition treaty. As Liberals, of course, we are fighting for freedom, for freedom of expression, for human rights and for the right to peaceful protest. Hong Kong has always been a beacon of hope for human rights in the region. Our group is therefore expressly calling for dialogue from the European Union and for our country to take the lead in sending a clear signal together with other European countries. We must remain an ally of those who fight for more freedom and fundamentally more rights and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u30	Minister, the latter has certainly not yet been said about the implementation of the Security Act. This law bans the freedom and democratic rights of the citizens of Hong Kong, making it even more difficult to oppose it, which is, however, a necessary element in a democracy. Despite all the concerns and actions, this government, together with the EU, is looking at the situation on the ground as a rabbit towards a light box. The local population and the many Western, including Flemish, entrepreneurs active in Hong Kong are counting on your support. Don't let them down. The fact that this minority government is giving the Communist regime of the People's Republic of China the tools to extradite dissidents to a dictatorial regime really defies imagination. I can imagine that you would receive applause for this on the benches of the Communists in the Chamber, but democracy and freedom of expression are sacred to the Flemish interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that Europe will not be a paper tiger, but that we will show our teeth, or rather our claws. It is true, as you say, that we must maintain dialogue with China. Economic sanctions are certainly not a solution either. We do have another leverage, in particular that extradition agreement. That agreement was also very important for China. Given the current situation in Hong Kong, we can use that agreement. We shouldn't be afraid to use it. I therefore hope that next Tuesday we will take that position with us on the Council of Foreign Ministers, so that we send a clear signal to China.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u32	In the meantime, Minister, insecurity is no longer a feeling or impression but an established fact. More and more violent drug-related acts are being committed in our cities. We already had bombs and grenades in Antwerp and last weekend in Frost 2 drug gangs fought a battle in our streets. Soufiane was shot with 17 bullets of war ammunition and his two companions were badly wounded. Whoever says it's about single facts, he's lying. Whoever says this is gonna fall out of the sky, he's lying, too, because those drug clans have been fighting their rivalry on our streets for a long time. The numbers don't lie about it, by the way. Between 2008 and 2018, the number of PVs for possession of narcotic drugs doubled in Brussels, the number of PVs for sale of narcotic drugs doubled in the same period and the number of PVs for illicit possession increased by 70% in those 10 years. Mr Minister, everyone realizes that it cannot go on like this. What is your plan to do to curb this serious crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u33	Mr Depoortere, the shooting incident that took place at Orbanplein in Vorst last weekend, is now part of a study that is being conducted at the Brussels parquet. An investigating judge has been appointed, and you know that I cannot give you specific details on this matter. As chairman of the Committee on the Interior, you know the secret of the investigation. I cannot therefore confirm at this time that the incident that took place in Vorst is part of the type of organised crime to which you referred in your question. I assume you're getting your information out of the media in that regard. The figures you have quoted are correct and in fact prove the opposite of what you have put forward, namely that our police and judicial services are indeed doing their job of establishing and following up. As you know, the fight against organised crime is a priority for me, together with Mr Geens and the entire government. This battle is part of the National Security Plan and criminal policy is controlled by the College of Attorney General. The fight against organised crime or what goes on in the field is an absolute priority for me. Last month, less than a month ago, I provided an additional injection of EUR 30 million in annual investment for the federal police. So I have provided for the means the police are entitled to. The most important part of this is intended for the federal judicial police in the fight against organised crime, with the fight against drug trafficking remaining one of the main priorities. There can be no legalisation of drugs. I am surprised that you did not mention that in your question. I leave the statements of the mayor of Vorst in the press on this matter entirely on his behalf. I hope that, by analogy with an earlier statement I made on this subject, he had not smoked at the time he made those statements. I find it particularly inappropriate to use a deadly shooting to communicate such a vision. It's not my vision at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u34	Mr. Secretary, it is correct that you have allocated some resources to the police. Enough resources, I believe. There is investment in our police and security services. But if we want to pursue a decisive policy, if we really want to work on a lick-on-piece policy, we need two shutters: the police hatch and the judicial hatch. We have had hearings this week in the Committee on the Interior with representatives of the police and security services. The greatest motivation among those people is the lack of a judicial part. There is no point in giving more resources to police and security if there is no end to the fact that criminals are also being punished effectively. The police don't even ask for higher penalties. They only ask that the punishments be carried out effectively. As long as you don't work together, this won't work. It is not the case that one minister is proposing a tough approach but another minister is playing softie. We must have the courage to work together here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u35	Mr President, Mrs De Block, this week the European Commission announced that it would finally put on the table its long-awaited proposal for a new asylum and migration policy. The German Minister for the Interior Horst Seehofer also insisted on a breakthrough under his German Presidency. If we can believe the reports in the media, there have already been consultations with national governments during which they could present their views. Has the Belgian Government been consulted on this issue? If so, what spearheads did you or your representative put forward on that occasion? If we can believe the media, the idea of a distribution plan has not yet been lifted, which is quite regrettable given the great resistance to it, not only from the Eastern European countries but also from countries such as Austria and the Netherlands. Madam Secretary, I would have liked to have heard from you the following. Will you support the aforementioned governments in their more than justified opposition to the dispersal mechanism? Over the last five years, the European Commission has announced once again every year that it would focus on the return of migrants who would not be eligible for asylum, i.e. the vast majority of those entering illegally Europe. However, like the Belgian Government, the European Commission never kept its word. The borders remained wide open and there was absolutely no return policy. We've been cheated year after year. We were promised a firm migration policy, but in reality we were given open borders again. It is time for Belgium to join the opposition to this policy. After all, we urgently need to stop importing and spreading illegal migrants. We must start by stopping and sending back illegal migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u36	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, the new Commissioner, Mrs Johansson, has indeed made a round with the various ministers. With me that was still a physical visit, with others perhaps virtual. In the meantime, the corona crisis has come to an end. Indeed, the initiative for a new migration pact lies with the European Commission. Ms Johansson will be proposing the new EU migration pact shortly, probably in September. The revision of the Dublin rules is, of course, a crucial part of this discussion. I have also had several discussions with Commissioner Johansson on my vision for the future. I am indeed in favour of greater European solidarity and a fair sharing of burdens between Member States. In order to make this possible, a monitoring exercise needs to be established in which it becomes clear what efforts are being made by the various countries compared to the overall European effort. If monitoring demonstrates that a country is under disproportionate pressure, structural solidarity mechanisms should enter into force. That may be for countries on the external border of the European Union, but that can also be for countries of destination, as Belgium is one. The European Commissioner wants to get out of this stalemate in which the European Union has been sitting for seven years. It will put on the table as much agreement as possible. It states that each Member State must make a fair contribution to registration, but also to the reception of asylum seekers. It's a good thing she wants to get out of that standstill. In 2011 I entered there as a new Secretary of State and left in 2014. In December 2018 I came back and nothing had changed or improved because everyone just stayed on the barricade. I am really pleased that Mrs Johansson has the ambition to break that deadlock and I have great confidence in her approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u37	Mrs De Block, the answer is clearly no. No one is afraid of that, because you are failing to stop illegal migration and to expel illegal migrants. However, that's your job. The Flemings, which you are burdening with almost the highest tax burden, no longer accept that you ask them to work longer for less pensions and at the same time ask them to increase the budget for asylum seekers. The Flemings, who have seen their neighborhood or city estranged, no longer take it by the elite to be called a racist because they want to preserve their culture and identity and pass it on to the next generation. The Flemings do not want more, but less migration. The Flemings want law and order, instead of laxity and impunity. The Flemings want you to actively track down and expel illegal immigrants who have deliberately violated our country and our laws. What you call populism is the cry for help of a people who do not want to disappear. It's time for you to start listening to the ordinary Fleming and do your job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have fantastic care staff in Belgium, which was once again proven during the corona crisis. The care staff has been incredibly committed, with heart and soul, and it has cost blood, sweat and tears. However, the crisis has also revealed incredible pain points in the healthcare sector. At the end of June, one of the five employees in the healthcare sector thought of stopping and one in three is at risk of burning out. One of the main reasons is that the care staff cannot sufficiently share the workload with colleagues. Employees only last on average for 10 years in the healthcare sector. Politics has responded well and also had to react to appreciate the enormous commitment of healthcare staff with a career pact for care. That's historic. For CD&V it was certainly important that these were structural measures, approved through social consultation. That's what happened. What is granted is not charity, no sweetener, no premium here and there, not a cloth for bleeding, but a structural response to the whims of the sector. You have simply concluded a historic agreement, and I normally shy away from the big words, but historically it is a solution to motivate young people to work in this sector and solutions to stress and workload. For example, caregivers can finally go on holiday for three consecutive weeks, just like any normal employee. There are also solutions for a proper remuneration, with a better starter's wage and an increased end-of-year premium. Very important, there are also more colleagues coming around the bed so that there is more time for a conversation with the patient and to give the necessary warmth. That is why we fully support the agreement you have reached with the social partners. My questions are therefore very simple. When will caregivers be entitled to what was decided? How will the social partners be further involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u39	Mr. Chair, Ministers, for months, we have been coming to the table regularly to ask that the government really take the job of using white coats to ensure that they benefit from better working conditions and wages. When we voted for the White Blouse Fund in June, we again recalled that this was a big but only very first step, because there was a need for a truly comprehensive plan for the health care sector. In short, it was a partial response to its legitimate claims. Today, before I recaptured my fist, I wanted to thank you – you and Minister Muylle – for this social agreement with the sector. Six hundred million is a huge amount, plus the four hundred million for white coats, a total of one billion that will be used to implement the new wage model and improve working conditions. This is an essential step in knowing the huge needs of the sector. However, this is also a response to your structural under-investment in health care. We now look forward to the implementation and sustainability of this agreement. You say the government will approve it tomorrow, but I must also remind you that the government is a minority. Mr Clarinval said in the Finance Committee that no budget was foreseen for adjustment. So what budgetary measures will be taken to sustain this agreement? Minister, my simple question will reflect an urgent request. A text must be adopted before 21 July in order for the budget to enjoy a parliamentary majority. If we vote on 15 September, it will be too late. As a result, can you still commit to a final holiday assignment so that the White Blouse sector can benefit from the implementation of the agreement in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u40	Madam Secretary, I will paraphrase Shakespeare: wisdom ran loudly through the streets, but the government remained deaf for too long. For years, the care sector has been on the streets, the so-called white rage. For the sp.a group, the distress call of the care staff was already clear for a long time, but many of you needed corona to listen to them. For years, we have been working for structural investments in health care and care personnel, in all the care staff, because the white anger serves to strengthen care, care that both you and I sometimes need. These demands are not at all crazy: more hands on the bed, more care time per patient, a reduction in the workload, workable work. I repeat: all the demands are there to offer you and all citizens better care. Until recently, however, our proposals were rejected and regarded as irresponsible, including by your colleagues in the political groups. But we kept listening and heard the cry for help. That's why we kept putting on the table: for our health, for our strong health care system and for the care staff who perform his job with great passion. We therefore welcome the renewed understanding of you, the members of the government and the groups of the majority. We are very pleased that the social partners were really being listened to and that a draft social agreement was drawn up constructively, an agreement offering prospects for a career pact. I also think it is okay that further work has been carried out in Parliament on the care staff fund. We can now finally offer a future perspective and give recognition to the care staff that is indispensable in our society. It is important that we provide the necessary resources for this. The best guarantee we can offer to the care staff is that the agreement is widely worn... [[Microphone disabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u41	Mrs. De Block, what a victory for the federal care sector! 600 million was won by the battle. Remember our $400 million white money fund? What's all the yelling? Popularists, impossible, irresponsible... Today you must put 600 million on the table. You have to do this and this is the first lesson in this sequence. It is that, through the struggle, the workers can go and seek victories. It's a victory today for the white blouses sector. But I mean to all the workers (drainers, bus drivers, etc.).), to all those who have continued to work, to all these heroes of the coronavirus, don't let go! It's time! The PTB said it, two to three months ago. Go on! Claim wage increases! It's your due! You continued to work to support this economy. You are entitled to salary increases! It is the political lesson that must be learned. Minister, I'm talking to you! We have to listen to the message from the street. I have a personal message to convey to you: people do not believe in this agreement. Many say: "Maggie De Block has already made fifteen statements, we have never seen anything!" With you, they're used to it. I know you don't agree, but that's how it is! In this agreement, it is written, black on white, that you will come before July 21, 2020 (...) Mr President, could you put my speaking time on hold for the time the minister listens to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u43	Madam Minister, you call this a "show", as I speak to you about the reality of the workers on the ground. Can't you be a little serious? I am telling you here that you have undertaken to have an agreement in Parliament before 21 July 2020. Has anyone ever seen a trace of this parliamentary initiative? There's nothing! You're going around again. Madam Minister, I ask you to commit yourself here in front of everyone to having a parliamentary act next week to put into practice this agreement that was reached today. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u44	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, on May 20, I was questioning our Prime Minister here about her call for consultation a week earlier to improve the status of health care workers. Indeed, even before this period of health crisis, these health professionals had to be better supported. It is true that the baraemic scales had been revised upwards since 2017. However, the means were not there. As is well known, wages in the sector are lower than in the merchant sector and working conditions remain very difficult. The emergency measures put in place to protect Belgian businesses and households from the crisis resulting from this coronavirus pandemic have already cost EUR 14.4 billion in 2020, of which more than 10 billion have been released by the federal government. But in addition to that, a social agreement has just been announced, less than two months after the commitment of our Prime Minister, Sophie Wilmès. The agreement provides for EUR 600 million in funding for the care sector over the period 2021-2022, EUR 500 million for salary upgrading and EUR 100 million for the concrete improvement of working conditions. Opinions seem unanimous on this agreement, coming from the CNE, the SFLP and the SETCA, which declared through the voice of its Federal Secretary of the Non-Commercial that this agreement was historic. Minister, can you clarify the anticipated salary increase for medical and care personnel under this agreement? When will it be able to bear its effects in practice? What is the precise timing of this large-scale refinancing for caregivers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, 600 million, that is the amount that should be injected into the health care sector, according to the pre-agreement you reached with the social partners on Tuesday. An amount of $500 million is foreseen for salary upgrading. It was essential! It remains so, it is important! In addition, an amount of 100 million is earmarked for improving working conditions and training. Trade unions have already indicated that this will be insufficient. This agreement was long overdue. The workers shouted their disarray on the street. They did it long before the health crisis. They were heroes long before this crisis. They have continued their commitment in the name of health throughout this crisis and are still present today. The health crisis has shown us how the disinvestment of our health care was a dramatic mistake. The hedge of dishonour that the Prime Minister had to face during her visit to St. Peter's Hospital last May marked all minds and, without a doubt, hers first. I imagine that this is one of the drivers that has led to the commitment to discuss with the actors in the field, the hospital staff, in order to identify the means necessary for the revalorisation of the wages far too low in the light of the responsibilities of each and everyone, for the improvement of the working conditions that have become untenable over time. Minister, we all agree that this pre-agreement is an important step forward, that it is a positive start. But what about after? Indeed, unless I am mistaken, the agreement covers two years, namely 2021 and 2022. This is a budgetary commitment of almost 600 million euros per year for a minority government in day-to-day affairs. How can you guarantee the implementation of this agreement today? How can you ensure that the 600 million will be included in future budgets of a government that, in any case, will not be that government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was indeed time for a new social agreement, the previous one dating back to 2017. It was up to a new government to make a social agreement again, but since it was awaiting it, we sat down at the table. At the request of the social partners, I sat down with two fellow ministers with the social partners. The ambitious expectation was to have an agreement by 21 July, but it did not last that long. On 7 July, we knocked out a preliminary agreement. Now there's some work to be done with them. Collective agreements must be made. Collective agreements must be made. The corona crisis was indeed a real stress test for the whole organisation of care. Our system has kept up well, thanks to everyone's commitment. However, we must not be blind to the points of pain that were still there on the ground. The government, together with the social partners, decided to invest EUR 600 million more in the wage and working conditions of the care staff. This exercise was started in 2017 with the tilting of IFIC and is now fully performed. It is also important to provide EUR 100 million for the improvement of working conditions. This is an important agreement that helps to make the health care sector more attractive so that we can retain the quality staff we have in this sector. Wage conditions and working conditions must be improved, but the influx of health workers must also be increased. That will be the test on the sum. Now a lot of money has been provided through the Blouses Blanche fund, but will we succeed in finding those people in the labour market? Will we succeed in getting more people into that training or having transversal pathways followed? The further development needs to be followed. The agreement was indeed concluded for 2021 and 2022. It is certain that the necessary money will be provided by Minister Clarinval, together with Minister Muylle. We will come to Parliament in time for this with a legislative initiative so that it can start from January. Mrs Taquin, this is an average of 6% increase, depending on the positions held. Improving working conditions is also important, as is investing in further training and the prevention of burn-outs. So I think it is a good thing that there is a new social agreement. In fact, it is the second time that I close in one legislative term and I do not know how many ministers have shown me that. I would also like to thank my two colleagues who, like the social partners, came to the table from the beginning, after a difficult first meeting, in a very constructive atmosphere. If one sits at the table with a constructive attitude, then one arrives at agreements and solutions. I hope this will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support. The past crisis period has clearly demonstrated the need for sufficient quality staff in the healthcare sector. What is particularly important to me in this agreement is that it is about every link in the chain. It concerns logistics staff, administrative staff, nurses, paramedics and psychologists. Each link in the chain is therefore covered and is considered in this agreement. That is why the social agreement that was presented on Tuesday is very important. This is a broad and ambitious career pact supported by the social partners and the government, which will be transposed very quickly – I hope – through social consultation into collective agreements and agreements in both the private and public sectors. IFIC does not require any additional legislation. This exists and can be carried out. As far as the EUR 100 million envelope is concerned, I hope that these collective agreements will follow very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about EUR 500 million and EUR 100 million, together with the budget for the Health Care Staff Fund approved in the Chamber. Don't let us play blackball together. There is a great deal of support from many parties, perhaps even from all parties, in this House for what we are doing here. The challenge now is to lead young people to a job in the healthcare sector. We're gonna need them. That EUR 400 million means more than 4,000 staff. Where shall we get them? We will have to lead young people to training in health care and make them attractive. However, it will not only have to come from young people. We're also gonna have to find people through side-influx. We can do this on the basis of this agreement, for example, by including competences acquired elsewhere in the wages that we can offer people. There are many opportunities in terms of education and training. COOVID-19 will unfortunately push more people into unemployment, but there too we can provide for reorientation and additional training. I'm also thinking about a lot of programs. For example, we can give newcomers in our country language training and at the same time also training in care. That way we can get more hands on the bed that we need. Those instruments are contained in it. The agreement is also important for the work done by Parliament. We see, for example, that chief nurses will be removed from the standard, which means that additional nurses will be able to be put to bed immediately. There will be mobile teams, which are multidisciplinary and will be deployed wherever necessary. We are working on end-of-life measures, which are urgently needed in the sector, on a second pension pillar, and I can go on for a while. Together with the social agreement that was approved in the Chamber this week, instruments are on the table to ensure that the sector becomes attractive, that young people dare again to choose a career in care. As Mrs Van Hoof said, the average careers in the healthcare sector are now often shorter than ten years. We must once again dare to opt for a job in the care sector, but above all and perhaps more importantly, both agreements here today provide fair answers to questions that the sector has been asking for a long time, answers that the sector deserves more than anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u48	I thank both ministers for the answer. It is clear that you do not throw money without social consultation and without structural intervention. We felt it was irresponsible to throw down premiums. You have understood the message from the social partners. The care staff gets storage from the Wetstraat. The profession is made attractive, also for people who want to enter from another profession and also for young people. Taking care of people is a very nice profession, but it must also remain attractive. That's important. I think that the hospital care staff will certainly leave with a boost on vacation and get new energy back through this fantastic social agreement. This is historic. We will support and finance the texts that are likely to come to the Chamber in September. We thank you for this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u49	Minister, the health crisis we face every day reminds us that the health professions are really the pillars of our society. It would be incomprehensible, after the months we have lived, and especially after what this sector has experienced, that these budgets should not be implemented. It is vital for the future of health care, and indispensable for social peace. Having a timely vote is not enough for the sector. Support for the first line must really be the priority for the formation of a government. Realizing this before July 21, you can understand, Minister, is not just a formality. It's also a symbol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u50	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote one more quote: "You have to do something, don't make it." That is the quote of a nurse who asks them to give them the opportunity to care and to deprive them of the opportunity to worry. Colleagues, that is what we should do, and in particular give all healthcare workers the opportunity to do what they are good at, namely to look after people. Madam Secretary, a social agreement can and must help. Let us all do this together, constructively and correctly. However, let us also put Parliament's strength behind the agreement and give the agreement the assurance that it will be supported by a broad coalition in Parliament and, hopefully, by a unanimous vote. Let's do that. Let us give the care staff that guarantee. Colleagues, a strong government, both federal and Flemish and in the other sub-areas, invest in her future and in her health care. Indeed, all healthcare workers at all levels deserve a good social agreement, which is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u51	Madam Secretary, the white rage sector wants guarantees. You have written: by 21 July 2020 it is necessary to submit this social agreement to Parliament. Why isn't that happening? Give me that guarantee! Submit an amendment to the provisional twelfths next week, write a motion, do something, but something must be done next week to ensure that this agreement is established. Because what will happen in September or October? Then there may be elections and we are all working on that. They clearly want guarantees. They have to be given next Wednesday or Thursday. Either we present that, or the government does. This social agreement is a victory, but it must be for all workers in the healthcare sector. Also in the residential care centers, colleagues of the N-VA, Open Vld and CD&V. Why should we give that victory to the federal government sector, but not to the residential care centres? Dear colleagues in the PS, Ecolo and MR, it is not possible to recognize the victory of health care workers at the federal or regional level alone. Indeed, it is all those involved in health care who deserve to be praised for their work, both health-care workers and nurses or staff in nursing homes. It is therefore essential not to refer these negotiations back to the Greek calends but to act immediately!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u52	Madam Minister, I thank you for this extremely positive information, which I consider a victory for the healthcare staff, who deserve it so much. The increase in wages, the qualitative improvement of working conditions, preventive measures in the event of a health crisis, the improvement of the organisation in order to reduce the excessive workload, the duration of recuperation leave, individual training and employment contracts and, finally, more stable fees... These are concrete measures that respond directly to the daily lives of the care staff, and I know that you will go through your steps. This is structural funding to meet the needs of both patients and health care workers. This is a more than legitimate and logical revalorisation. This is the essential justice for all these health workers, and the assurance of a quality of care provided. It is of course to these people that we owe the excellent ranking of Belgium, which is fifth out of 35 European countries in health care. This classification has been established by the European Index as well as by independent institutes. I want to thank them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u53	Ministers, the announcement was made in great pomp: 600 million euros for the care sector, in addition to 400 million from the White Blouse Fund. I would like to say this: the White Blouses Fund, we have made it a reality thanks to the remarkable work of my colleague Marc Goblet and the group he chaired. The 600 million you're talking about is for the time being only a promise. I have no doubt that the future government, whatever its composition, will not dare to reconsider these commitments. I cannot imagine for a second that the parties will again dare to listen deaf to the needs and expectations of the field. However, we know that the budgetary decisions that were taken during the previous legislature were particularly harsh - especially with regard to health care. That is why we are not reassured. Hope is there, but it awaits concrete action and results. Finish the announcement effects and the promises in the air! Please, act, without which the anger of the field will be uncontrollable and, be certain, ours too!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u54	The first victim in the event sector has fallen and it will probably not be the last. The organisation of the Holiday Show, Megavino and the Belgian Boat Show has been declared bankrupt this morning. She put the books down because she hasn't been allowed to organize any event since March. All events also had to be cancelled last minute. The costs of and the time invested in the preparation of all events that could not take place were not reimbursed. The worst of all is that today there is still no perspective, either for the fairs or for the events. At the start of the corona crisis, it has already been very arbitrary to determine which sector may be open and which sector should remain closed. I remind you how garden centers were allowed to open, while all the other shops had to stay closed. There is no prospect for either the stock exchange sector or the event sector. The government closes its eyes like nothing's wrong. In this way, there will be a wave of bankruptcies, not only in that sector, but in all other sectors that are suppliers of that sector. Such a fair or event precedes an entire chain of activities. It is therefore not surprising that the sector has subpoenaed the government. What does Belgium do? Belgium is once again lagging behind; just like for the catering industry, we are again the last. There is already a perspective in the neighbouring countries. In the Netherlands, France, Germany and Switzerland, fairs and events will take place again from 1 September. In Belgium there is still no clarity about this. What will the government do to provide the sector with a perspective as soon as possible? When will that be?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u55	Minister, last week I had a conversation with the conductor of a symphonic orchestra. He had to perform with his orchestra in Wallonia in different cultural temples, but none of them took place. For every performance he normally had to conduct, he was paid. As dessert, he can come back next year to receive the same gift. Wallonia is of course a rich district and Flanders poor. Well, such a thing is impossible in Flanders. With us, you have to pull up your own pants. The bankruptcies, as the colleague said, are already noticeable, for example the organizer of Megavino and the Holiday Salon. In Flanders we no longer understand. We do not understand that people with 500 are allowed to sit on a plane like herrings in a barrel, but that at a wedding only 50 guests are welcome, who are not even allowed to dance. In the catering industry on the coast, where I am mayor, 1:00 a.m. is considered closing hours. There is therefore no entertainment for young people, for example. In this way, there are still hard-to-retain collective trainings at night. Nor can the theatre, because the actors have to play for one and a half men and a horse's head, which is unfeasible. I can still understand that events in a room are a problem, but I do not understand that outdoor events are problematic. A few weeks ago, we debated a demonstration in Brussels with as many as ten thousand participants in the streets. A number of demonstrations have taken place since then. In the meantime, we may know that this has not given rise to any additional contamination with the coronavirus. The event sector is currently facing a loss of EUR 4.9 billion. There are 80,000 jobs at stake. 77.000 events take place every year. I think that, especially for outdoor events, the belt may be released. This will enable people to live their lives and we can save that sector. Mr. Secretary, would you like to put an end to these rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u56	Mrs Houtmeyers, Mr Dedecker, thank you for your questions, which are entirely justified. The event sector employs 88,000 people and organises some 77,000 events every year. Many self-employed and subcontractors also work at these events. The sector is at great risk of bankruptcy because it can only be restarted under strict and limited conditions. That is why, together with Minister None, we have put in place a moratorium on bankruptcies. The MR Group, with Mr Piedboeuf, also wants to reform the procedure of judicial reorganisation as quickly as possible. On the basis of the protocol I prepared with the sector, the National Security Council decided on 24 June that the exit for the event sector could start on 1 July. Aid measures were also validated by the extended core. The Ministerial Decree of 30 June provides that in July the public is allowed up to 200 people inside and 400 people outside. In August, the numbers are increased to 400 people inside and 800 people outside. You are right that it is important that we continue to offer prospects to the event sector. Mr Dedecker, Mrs Houtmeyers, this morning the sector took part in a meeting with the GEES with a view to the next meeting of the National Security Council. There has been a proposal on plumbing. On this basis, the GEES will issue a new opinion to the National Security Council. Mrs Houtmeyers, National Security will also be informed about practices in all European countries. All these elements should enable those concerned to complete the exit from the lockdown for the event sector and the fair sector. A new sanitary guide would be on the table. A proposal of thresholds on the maximum permitted public will also be discussed by the National Security Council. The exit will be possible, provided, of course, the sanitary conditions to safeguard the health of everyone will be met. COVID-19 still causes deaths in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u57	Minister, a moratorium on bankruptcy is good, as is the judicial reorganisation, but it is not a solution and it is merely a postponement. I am aware that there was a meeting this morning, but it actually did not go so well. In the end, it is up to politics to make that decision. It is important that this happens quickly, because such an event precedes an entire chain. This means that there are weeks of preparation prior to such event. Meanwhile, a lot of people can come together in a lot of places, and that's good. Then why can't there be a fair or an event? This can be done in a safe way if measures such as wearing mouth masks, respecting social distance, imposing a fixed route or a number of visitors per square meter. Unfortunately, the government is failing here. This results in sectors in difficulty, not only the sectors of the fairs and events, but also the suppliers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u59	It has to be done quickly. There's got to be a quick consultation. It's gonna bankrupt. People are being hunted abroad, not only the organizers, but also the visitors. They'll just cross the Belgian border again. What did we win? Nothing in the end. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the answer myself. With the Werchter department, this country has one of the largest concert organisers in the world, Live Nation. Live Nation now has overhead costs of $200 million a month. There is also the Sport Palace of Antwerp. Well, the CEO of the Sports Palace has put it very well. I read it to you: "We remain bound by that one-and-a-half meter distance. That's like buying a car with one wheel: it just can't. We are limited to about 28% of our capacity and we do not feel that artists and spectators come to us for such an experience." He also says: "This is vengeful." (...) Nowhere can you see that anymore: on the plane it is allowed, on the dike on the coast no one keeps so far away" I can know. He continues: "At restaurants many are closer together... Only our sector must remain closed. This corresponds to the organized push to a failure. We are not conflicting in nature, but I can understand that some would take legal action if this continued." Mr Minister, go to the GEES yourself and say that it cannot go on and that we are confident that something can be organized in the open. We can then wait and see what we do with the activities inside.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u61	Madam Secretary, the borders are open again for some time and now we have a new colour code. Code red and code green are clear, but there is also a lot of grey and that creates a lot of uncertainty. However, one would think that it is superevident: code red means that it is unsafe and that one cannot go, code green means that it is safe and that one can go, but what does code orange mean? Is it not really safe, but can one choose oneself whether to take the risk? If someone wants to cancel their trip in that case, will they bear all the costs themselves? Even worse is it when someone gets stuck: how does that person get home? So there are a lot of questions. In the Netherlands they also work with such codes, for a long time, and that works very well there. In our country we find not only the colour codes, but also the mouth masks and the tracing apps........................................................................................................................................................ It is time to clarify, Madam Minister, for all the people, some of whom have already left or are leaving very soon. I have the following questions. Last week I asked Minister Goffin what the government's plan is for travellers to leave and come back to our country. What's the plan? What are you gonna do with that? How will you ensure that the summer is safe? One cannot wait until the consumer is already travelling or is travelling very soon to come up with something new, namely the color codes, while no one gets what code stands for what. Some people have already left on a journey, the borders are already open. What are the rights of travellers at code orange? There's a lot of uncertainty about that. Finally, what will happen to people who get stuck abroad? Is there a plan ready to ensure that there is some certainty for those people if they want to travel soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u62	Mrs Depraetere, I stand here as Minister of Consumer Affairs. You asked me what the consequences are for the consumer. You say that I am always a little late, but you know that I was one of the first to introduce the travel cheque after France, Belgium was the second country in Europe to do so in order to protect the sector and consumers very much. Today, we are dealing with resurrections in different countries. This, of course, also affects travellers who still have to leave. You have cited the distinction between green, orange and red zones, which will be published on the Foreign Affairs website. This will, of course, also have an impact on the consumer. However, I have to be clear: the situation is no different today than before, in the sense that, as far as travel is concerned, the same rules apply to the consumer as in the past few months. A package trip can always be cancelled. When the tour operator does, he has to repay the traveler. The traveller can of course voluntarily opt for a check or a rebooking, but if the tour operator cancels, he will have to pay back in full. If the traveller cancels himself, he will also have to be refunded, but then compensation can be charged. You know that this is not the case when there is force majeure, then no compensation will be charged. It is clear, therefore, that code red is a matter of force majeure, but in the case of green, of course, no force majeure can be invoked. What about orange? For orange districts, cities and regions, the health risks are high and it is not recommended to travel from Belgium to the country concerned. In this case, the package travel can in principle be carried out because the flight continues and the hotel is still available. If the travel agent cancels, the full amount must be refunded. The customer can also cancel with code orange but then there will be a compensation due. Only when measures taken by the country of destination or local authorities have a significant impact on the performance of the package journey will force majeure occur. In that case, the customer will not be liable for the cancellation fee for the package travel. It is therefore important for the consumer to be informed day after day and to look at the situation on the ground on the Foreign Affairs website. When we are not talking about package travel but about individual travel, it is very important to look at the contract and the cancellation insurance. Those who still want to book to leave can book something where cancellation with refund is possible. Actually, the rules are no different today than they were yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u63	Madam Secretary, the Chamber is grateful for your detailed reply. You have gone a little over the speaking time allocated to you. I am therefore giving Mrs Depaetere ample time, a double speaking time, for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u64	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, which states that all the rules have remained the same. If you book, you'd better book something that can be cancelled. However, a lot of people made something before the corona crisis. Of course, that's all a little late. We may have a revival and our health care should be the most important thing in this regard. The solution is very simple. Code red is very clear. Code orange is quite on the one hand and is absolutely not clear. Code orange simply equals ambiguity. If the traveller has not taken cancellation insurance or is stuck or if a code orange suddenly becomes a code red, these are unclear factors for the traveller. What's he supposed to do? Shouldn't he or shouldn't he go on a trip? If he doesn't travel, the cancellation himself is payable. It could all be a little easier. Make sure there's code green and code red but no code orange. That is the easiest way, not only to protect the consumer, but also to protect our public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u65	Mr Verherstraeten, would it have anything to do with that orange color? That orange color creates confusion. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u66	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u67	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2020, you have received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2020, you received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u68	I have received amendments to the bill on various urgent tax measures related to the VOCID-19 pandemic (CORONA III), Nos. 1390/1 to 4. I have received amendments to the draft Law laying down several urgent tax provisions as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic (CORONA III), Nos 1390/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2020, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2020, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Finance and Budget (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the draft law will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee (Erasmus Room). The legislative proposal will be discussed in plenary today after discussion of the amendment in committee (Erasmus Room). No observation? Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u69	Mr. Chairman, we have questions about the referral to committee of this bill, CORONA III, dealing with various tax measures. This is an amendment that has been presented to us as a technical amendment by the government, but which goes through Mr Leysen. When we look at what this is about, it is an amendment that wants to go back to an amendment that had been approved in committee. So it was a retro-pedaling of a measure that wanted to limit a tax exemption, which was suitable for us. We are therefore not in favour of referring this amendment back to committee. We believe that this should be dealt with in plenary and voted on. If there is a change from the commission, we will act on this change and we will come to a conclusion. We are not in favour of referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u70	We are not going to start the discussion in plenary. I understand that you do not agree, but this draft is referred back to committee and you will be able to take a position on the amendment. There was a consensus on referral to committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u71	Mr President, we have been presented with this as a technical amendment, but this is not at all. It is a political amendment that calls into question a vote on an amendment that has passed. We were lied about the merchandise!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u72	The distinction between technology and policy is sometimes difficult to make. I propose that we stick to the consensus. If you do not agree, you may request a vote for referral back to committee. Let's go back to committee and you can make your remarks in committee. In any case, there will be a debate in plenary and you will be able to make your amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u73	Mr President, this is not acceptable and we must learn from it for the future. We cannot accept in the Conference of Presidents the decision to refer the matter back to committee on the basis of an amendment which we have not seen. When you see the nature of this amendment, it is very questionable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u74	This must be told to the minister, who is the author of this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u75	It was Mr Leysen who tabled the amendment and he acted for the minister. The minister was particularly angry – in my opinion, rightly – with this amendment adopted in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u76	Put yourself in my place, I have to move the work forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u77	Mr President, I therefore propose that you continue the work as planned and not refer it back to committee. The President (spoke in French): I have received amendments to the bill (Mr Wouter Raskin, Ms Yngvild Ingels and Ms Frieda Gijbels and Mr Tomas Roggeman) amending, with regard to the traffic of priority vehicles, the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 on the general regulation on the police of road traffic and the use of public roads, Nos. 589/1 to 5. I have received amendments to the legislative proposal (Mr Wouter Raskin, Mrs Yngvild Ingels and Mrs Frieda Gijbels and Mr Tomas Roggeman) amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 laying down general rules for the police of road traffic and the use of public roads as regards the flow of priority vehicles, Nos 589/1 to 5. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2020, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2020, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee (Pater Damiaan Room). Following discussion of the amendment in committee (room Father Damiaan), the bill will be discussed in plenary today. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. There are two rooms at your disposal. For the Mobility Committee, that is the Damian Room and for the tax provisions is the Erasmus Room. I suggest that the two committees begin their work immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u78	As we are concerned by item 2 of the plenary agenda, can the Committee on Mobility be convened at the end of item 2? They're the same colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u79	Yes. Few speakers are listed for item 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u80	Can this committee be held at the end of item 2 of the plenary? That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u81	It's possible. If your request is such, it seems to me feasible. There are only three speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u82	Mr. President, maybe in a quarter of an hour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u83	All right. U bent pragmatisch, collega.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u84	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of an effective francophone member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a French-speaking, effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Nominations were announced during the November 21, 2019 plenary session. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 21 November 2019. The Justice Committee held the hearing of the candidates on 7, 8 and 21 January 2020. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 11 March 2020. On 7, 8 and 21 January 2020, candidates were heard by the Justice Commission. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 11 March 2020. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of July 2, 2020, a second ballot is to be held for the vacant term of effective French-speaking members. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 2 July 2020, a second ballot should be organised for the outstanding mandate of an effective French-speaking Member.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u85	The agenda calls for secret ballots for the appointment of the actual members of the Information and Opinion Centre on harmful sectarian organizations whose candidatures have been directly introduced into the Chamber The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of permanent members of the Information and Advisory Centre on the harmful sectarian organizations whose applications were submitted directly to the Chamber. Four effective members and four alternate members are appointed directly by the House, by a two-thirds majority. Four permanent and four alternate members shall be appointed directly by the Chamber with a two-thirds majority. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on 11 June 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 11 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u86	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of two members of the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The next item is the secret ballots for the appointment of two counsellors to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. Nominations were announced in plenary on 5 March 2020 and 4 June 2020. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 5 March 2020 and 4 June 2020. The Sub-Committee on Court of Auditors heard all the candidates on 17 June 2020. Benoît Piedboeuf, Chairman of the Sub-Committee, reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 24 June 2020. The Sub-Committee "Rekenhof' heard all candidates on 17 June 2020. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Chair of the Subcommittee, reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 24 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u87	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking deputy member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on 4 June 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 4 June 2020. The Justice Committee held the hearing of the two candidates on 30 June 2020. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 1 July 2020. On 30 June 2020, both candidates were heard by the Justice Commission. Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020. For the above-mentioned four appointment files, the documents containing the names of the candidates were distributed to you. For the four nomination files mentioned above, you were provided with the documents containing the candidate lists. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary meetings of 25 June and 2 July 2020, members were able to vote from Friday 3 July 2020 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decisions of the plenary sessions of 25 June and 2 July 2020, Members were able to vote at 4 p.m. from Friday 3 July 2020 until today. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the recounts of the ballots. These will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u88	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Jean-Marc Delizée, Mélissa Hanus, Laurence Zanchetta, Sophie Thémont, Christophe Lacroix, Hugues Bayet, Ahmed Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u89	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (27/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (27/5) The title has been amended by the committee as a motion for a resolution to protect and enhance the cultural heritage owned by public undertakings." The title was amended by the Committee in its resolution on the cultural heritage owned by public undertakings in order to protect it and bring it into its own right." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Vandenbroucke who refers to his written report. I give the floor to Mr Frieda Gijbels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a community party, art is dear to us. After all, art arises within a community and also holds a mirror in front of us. For this reason, we also understand very well that the authors were concerned at the time about the art collection at Belfius Bank when this bank wanted to start selling the collection. That fear arose when it appeared that Belfius Bank would once again be held less in government hands. Privatisation is not something our party is afraid of, but art collections can be of great social value. Therefore, some protection by the public authorities can certainly be justified. That is why we were not a priori opposed to this resolution. Flanders, for example, already knows the Masterpieces Decree. On the basis of that decree, a list of works of art was drawn up which require special attention and which should not simply disappear from Flanders. I mentioned the community, I already mentioned Flanders. Then a leap towards the division of constitutional powers in this country was quickly made. The Communities have been responsible for culture for 40 years now, and they are doing it well. For example, I have already referred to top-notch policy. By means of an amendment, we wanted to underline once again the importance of this division of powers. I would therefore like to thank the members of the committee for accepting this amendment. In this sense, we are surprised that the Committee has not followed our view on the conservation of works of art at federal level. There is indeed a special situation for the federal works of art located on Brussels territory. Instead of leaving the administration to the federal government, we believe that there would be much better agreements between the Communities and the Brussels-Capital Region. In contrast to the federal government, the Communities have taken care of their works of art over the last few decades and have not treated this competence as a stepmother. We therefore welcome, for example, the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Ministers for Culture led by the Flemish Minister for Culture, Jan Jambon. In this way, the Communities can play their part, while the federal ministers can join, and at the same time they can respond to the concerns expressed by BELSPO, which indicates that neither the manpower nor the means are available to give concrete effect to what is called for in the resolution. Nor is it entirely clear what the resolution calls for. For example, the federal government is asked, I quote: 'In the Science Policy PPS, an interfederal working group instead of cultural goods-public enterprises or rather a partnership between the Science Policy PPS, the Flemish Community; the French Community, the German-speaking Community and representatives of the public enterprises concerned'. I believe that this should be clarified further. Is it the intention to set up an interfederal working group within the Science Policy PPS or is another partnership also being established? Another point is clear, but our group also has a problem with it. The public authorities could take unilateral measures to ensure that the cultural heritage held by public undertakings is guaranteed public. In our view, this is a fairly far-reaching step which we do not even know whether or not it is proportionate, since there is neither an inventory of works of art nor a clear view of the various structures of public undertakings and the guarantees they may have already built in. Belfius, the company that gave rise to this resolution, opens its collection to the public for a few days a month and lends works of art to museums and institutions. Moreover, the art collection is unlocked via the website and the collection is not allowed to leave the Belgian territory permanently. Those matters are legally anchored. As long as the Belgian State holds 5% of the shares or 5% of the votes, those statutes cannot be changed without the consent of the State. We therefore believe that it is particularly important to determine in the first instance the size of the collections and their status and then to consult the various public undertakings and the Communities in order to determine whether protective measures have already been taken and, if so, which ones, so that further steps can be taken in a possible second stage. For these reasons, we will abstain in the vote on this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I note that the agenda for this afternoon's plenary session leads us to talk about culture. Point 8 contains our proposal for a law to improve the situation of workers in the cultural sector, which is now a priority, a necessity. And then there is this motion for a resolution to protect and enhance the cultural heritage owned by public undertakings or other bodies of public interest. As the title of the proposal states, the aim is to achieve two objectives: to protect and to enhance. With this motion for a resolution, Parliament is aware that there are high quality art collections in our public undertakings or other public bodies, that this exceptional artistic heritage has a value that goes far beyond its pecuniary aspect, and that it would be irresponsible for public agents to see it disappear. Especially since these collections have been built over time, sometimes over several decades, and they tell in their own way the history of our country. Be it Rubens, Delvaux, Magritte, Ensor, Wim Delvoye: these artists have done and still radiate our country far beyond our borders. This motion for a resolution also faces a threat, namely the privatisation of certain public companies. Therefore, collections could also be outside the public domain. We have already talked about this in the past without any success. For example, we know that under the previous legislature there was a desire to privatize the Belfius bank. Belfius has a collection of more than 4,300 works of art that have been collected over time by the former Crédit communal de Belgique, the former Banque Paribas Belgique and the Bacob Bank. Of course, we want to protect these works, so that they remain in the public domain. The second objective is to ensure that these works are made more available to the public, that they may be more accessible than they are today to all our fellow citizens, who eventually helped finance the acquisition of these works. Culture should not be reserved for a small number of people who would have this privilege. It must be a right for all. On the other hand, we want public enterprises to continue to play a central role because they have acquired expertise in this area over time. We therefore wish to take advantage of the know-how that exists in this field. Let me take the example of Paul Delvaux's four works, the man who loved trains, as they say, which belong to SNCB, which have been restored by the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage (IRPA) and are now permanently exposed to the Trade World. This is a good practice to follow. In addition, we want to use all the expertise of BELSPO and federal scientific institutions such as IRPA. We propose an ambitious, serious and coherent management of these works of art. It is also necessary to ensure that citizens can discover them. With this in mind, I agree with the previous speaker that we wanted to involve the Communities which are competent in cultural matters in this process of identifying and promoting works of art. I would like to thank my colleague, Joris Vandenbroucke, for his amendments which allowed us to refine the scope of the resolution. Indeed, it has seemed useful to us to specify that we aim at works that are the property of public enterprises, whether or not they are in their possession. With this motion for a resolution, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is committed to defending a culture for all, preserving and valuing these works of art, the artistic riches of our country, which are vast and must be made available to all our citizens. I therefore hope that this text can be voted on this evening by a large majority. We have worked in a very consensual way in committee. The text has been amended and I think it responds to the wishes of the various groups in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u92	Mr President, the Flemish interest is in favour of this motion for a resolution as far as protecting our art heritage owned by certain public companies is concerned. We welcome measures to protect and preserve this art heritage and a clear listing of it. On the basis of that inventory, it is possible and should be considered afterwards what should be done with that art heritage and what destination it should be given. However, it should not go beyond that for us at the moment. The creation of an interfederal working group within the Science Policy PPS that might itself select which works should be preserved and which not, is a step too far for us. That is why we will abstain from voting on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u93	Thank you, Mr Toventors, for clarifying your voting behaviour. I have another colleague, Mr Vandenbroucke, but he is currently prevented from doing so in the Committee on Finance, which I understand. There were no further speakers for the general discussion. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u94	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u95	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 947: Vanessa Matz, Maxime Prévot, Julie Song, Jessika Soors - 1042: Eric Thiébaut, Daniel Senesael, Hervé Rigot, Ludivine Dedonder, Hugues Bayet, Jean-Marc Delizée, Christophe Lacroix, Ahmed Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u96	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (947/6) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (947/6) The title in French has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the reform of the [[Civil Protection".]] The inscription in French was changed by the committee to "proposition de résolution relative à la réforme" [[Civil Protection".]] The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Briers. I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u97	Mr President, the motion for a resolution of which Mrs Matz is the main applicant was discussed in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs at its meetings on 18 February and 26 June. At the request of the PS Group, their motion for a resolution was linked to this. Both motions for resolutions were explained in detail and the general discussion was followed up. The authors of the proposals agreed to continue their work on the proposal No. 947. The PS Group then tabled a number of amendments which included the provisions contained in its proposal in proposal No. 947. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also tabled several amendments. Members of this last group also signed the proposal. Finally, the PVDA-PTB Group also tabled a number of amendments. The content of the resolution calls on the government to reconsider and adapt a number of issues relating to the recent reform of civil protection. The text of the proposal makes it clear what the issues are. At the vote on the whole, ten members of the committee voted in favour of adopting the motion for a resolution and six against. No one abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u98	Colleagues, as you know, civil protection has been the subject of a reform that has been operational since 1 January 2019. The objectives of the mission were the reorientation of missions between fire services and civil protection, the alignment of the status of civil protection officers with that of the fire service, the promotion of mobility between the two relief services, and the rationalization of the number of operational barracks. We had the chance to conduct a series of hearings in the Committee on the Interior in October and December 2019. The observation we made at these hearings is without appeal. Reform poses many structural and operational problems on the ground. In particular, he was accused of having been misconceived, ill-prepared, not only at the expense of the staff but also at the expense of the safety of the population. Interpelled by the statements made during these hearings, I wanted to meet with many civil protection officers, and also to visit the two barracks finally saved as a result of this reform. One of the main criticisms I have received is the reduction in the number of barracks. We have moved from many barracks to two, that of Brasschaat and that of Crisnea. While the sites concerned form an incomplete coverage of the territory, and a considerable increase in intervention times in the most remote areas and in the settlements they prefigure is to be deplored, several recent examples can show the difficulties created by this reform. Last September, specialized equipment could not be sent to Spa as part of the search for a missing person. Not later than October, on a highway, following a serious accident, when suspicious substances had spread, it took civil protection no less than four hours to deliver equipment and specialized personnel to the site. In view of this, and on behalf of the Ecolo Group, I am delighted to have co-signed the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, Mrs Matz. We have also tabled a series of amendments with my colleague Jessika Soors de Groen. We have also co-signed a series of amendments with my colleagues in the PS. Some of them were added to the proposal submitted by the cdH group. I think that today we can be proud to present you with a text that makes sense, and that is consistent. It includes a series of inquiries and reflections following the hearings held in committee. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear today that the tasks of protecting the population which are the responsibility of this essential specialized body are in danger. That deserves your full attention this afternoon. Through this resolution, we draw your attention to the difficulties experienced on the ground by these men and women who, every day, help the population in dramatic situations. Consideration must be given to the optimal reorganisation of services, so that the security of the population can be guaranteed. I hope that the vote which has been favourable in committee in recent weeks will be so this afternoon as well, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will take full measure of the importance of adopting this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u99	Mr President, it is indeed an important point that is being put to our vote today. Behind the words "civil protection", it is our security that is called into question, that provided by a specialized service and, behind the word "resolution", it is clear requests that are addressed, unequivocally, to the government. We need to review the copy of a reform that is not well thought out and totally in line with the demands of the field, both those of the relief areas and those of our fellow citizens. This reform was undertaken at the time by Minister Jambon and is now criticized on all sides. It had no other purpose but a budgetary purpose. She's terribly inefficient. The evaluation we carried out in the Committee on the Interior at the end of last year has brought to light various difficulties. First, there is the reduction of staff and the number of barracks that can no longer support the relief areas. The necessary training is no longer provided to staff. Longer response times are probably the most crucial and damaging aspect of this reform. Relief zones can no longer count on the valuable reinforcement of civil protection units to ensure the most rapid and adequate assistance. In some situations, they have to rely on the private sector. And the last crisis that we are experiencing has once again brought to light the difficulties of this reform. Some relief services, which would have been in need, could not rely on civil protection services, in particular to support the disinfection of equipment or ambulances. This resolution calls for a review of the maps, an evaluation of the reform not in the chamber but by seeking the opinions and comments of the country's 34 Chiefs of Staff, an inventory of all the time limits for intervention, a review of the choice of barracks and a review of the abandoned barracks, in order to check whether they cannot be used as forward posts. In addition, some of my colleagues, and our colleague Julie Chanson, have just mentioned this, have tabled a series of amendments. I thank them for this because they are perfecting the text even more precisely. I also thank them for their support. I simply think that this resolution, if we vote on it this afternoon, is a strong signal to the government that we should be able to review civil protection reform that does not meet the needs of relief services or citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the DéFI Group fully endorses this motion for a resolution. Indeed, throughout the previous legislature, we have repeatedly stressed the extent to which the removal of four of our six barracks on January 1, 2019 was finally indicative of a desire to dismantle federal powers in a manner that would be unravelled. Recognizing that civil protection is only a second-line public service, this specialization and centralization of civil protection cannot be considered a good reform. That is why we support the aim of this motion for a resolution to reconsider the choice of locations to be used by special units. Since that reform, the delivery of relief operations to the population has proved to be much more difficult, with the risk of undermining public safety and health in the event of natural disasters, nuclear incidents or new terrorist attacks. One of the priority requests contained in this proposal is to take stock of the deadlines for the intervention of the specialised civil protection resources, in order to check whether these deadlines still meet the very important criteria for the most rapid adequate assistance, despite this famous reorganization of our civil protection into two units instead of six before. It is also important that the opinion of the heads of corps of the rescue zones and the SIAMU be sought in order to have an overview of the situation, following the implementation of this reform, even though it is true that an initial evaluation has already been carried out in the Committee on the Interior. A precise inventory of the state of the now abandoned barracks must also be carried out, as Mrs Matz has just pointed out. I also wanted to take advantage of today's debate to address another important point, on which I recently asked the Minister of the Interior, namely the financing of relief zones. The Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 provides that relief areas will be financed mainly from the endowments of the communes of the area and the federal endowments, but also, to a lesser extent, from any provincial endowments, from the remuneration of missions authorized by the King for recovery, as well as from various aids. The same law sets out the application of the principle of budgetary neutrality for all municipalities in each area, until the federal authority has rebalanced local federal funding to two equal halves. Admittedly, the application of these principles has never been simple. It has been made both of progress and of successive setbacks which today generate many concerns among our communes, particularly in Wallonia and Brussels. The Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie estimated last year that the share of federal funding in ordinary expenditure was only 21.8%, compared to 23% two years ago. This is a worrying finding. Indeed, if this rate continues, an increasing number of Walloon municipalities will no longer be able to meet their obligations. The reform of the relief zones is therefore in the middle of the ford. This issue also prevails for the Walloon provinces, as the Walloon government's latest regional policy statement foresees that the provinces will gradually take over responsibility - and by 2024 at the latest - for the communal contributions to the financing of relief areas. In any event, the reform in question will have to relieve all municipalities. When I questioned him, the Minister of the Interior wanted to be reassuring. He has assured me that the principle of budgetary neutrality is the guarantee for the communes not to pay more for fire services than they paid for when they entered the emergency zone. He also assured me that the costs resulting from the reform would be borne by the federal state. However, we remain concerned, as the working group entrusted to it by the Committee on Civil Security Reform has not yet completed its work. It is essential, however, to determine precisely whether the additional costs of this reform will actually be covered by the federal authority, by the granting of allocations to the various areas concerned. We cannot accept today that the financial sustainability of our communes is ultimately threatened by a federal funding gap for civil security and emergency areas. I therefore hope that the adoption of this proposal - of which I would like to thank the main author - which also focuses on the recruitment process, with a mandatory training programme better adapted to the needs of civil security personnel, will finally push the government to correct the shortcomings and shortcomings of this reform, so that civil security becomes a genuine front-line public service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u101	Mr President, with the Flemish Interest Group we will support this motion for a resolution on the reform of civil protection. As you know, we always assess proposals on their content, not on who the author is. A way of working that I could recommend to anyone. After the many hearings and an in-depth discussion, and after assessing this proposal on its content, we can only approve the proposal. Let me list the main recommendations. Firstly, seek advice from the 34 chiefs of the relief zones. Secondly, the review of the sites. Thirdly, reorienting recruitment and training. These three elements are a prerequisite for achieving full civil security. We shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal with all our consciences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u102	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u103	Demand/Request 8(n) • 18 • Hervé Rigot cs (947/7) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u104	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u105	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Jef Van den Bergh, Franky Demon, Nawal Farih, Steven Matheï.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u106	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (685/5) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (685/5) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Senesael, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u107	Mr President, the PVDA Group will support this resolution because we want to support the sustainability of our mobility. The resolution is a step in the right direction to allow all workers who go to work by bike or speed pedal to enjoy a bicycle fee. This is also a good resolution in that it will also help to reduce congestion. If more people travel by bike, this is a good thing for the climate. There is less fine dust and less CO2 emissions. The fourth section of the resolution states that the social partners will be asked to examine the extent to which the tax exemption can be increased and hence the contribution of social security, in order to see whether there can be even more social security cuts and less RSZ contributions should be paid. We don't think that's a good idea. We have desperately needed social security over the past period. If we continue to cut back on the income of social security, we will further undermine social security. We do not agree with that. With regard to the environment, climate objectives and the sustainability of mobility, we will adopt this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u108	Thank you, Mr President, for your patience. It is somewhat annoying that the Mobility Committee meets at the same time as the plenary when it comes to mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, before us there is a proposal to generalise the bicycle fee. We are working with a resolution because it is up to the social partners to put the proposal into practice. However, politics and the Chamber can give a strong signal here today that they are fully behind it. In a previous IPA negotiation, the proposal was already on the table and a number of modalities were sent back for examination. It is, however, a good thing that we are giving the signal today that it would be a good thing to generalise the bicycle fee. Just this morning, a press release by Cyclis appeared in collaboration with Acerta on the occasion of the national 'I-Bike-to-Work' day. On Thursday 25 June 2020, so 14 days ago, more than 13,000 employees drove over 305,000 km by bike to work. Fifteen percent of Flemish workers also cycle to work regularly. Most of them live between 10 and 20 kilometres from work. Thanks to the rise of electric bikes and speed pedals, this distance increases year after year. Companies therefore like to take more initiatives to stimulate cycling to work. In turn, they are also encouraged by the government. I am thinking of the deductibility for installing the necessary infrastructure on a company and granting a bicycle fee. That also works and certainly has effect. In companies where a bicycle fee is introduced, the number of cyclists and the number of commuters using the bicycle increases by as much as 36%. However, there are still too many workers today who are not entitled to a bicycle fee. When the federal government looks into its own bosom, SNCB is a striking example of this. SNCB is a sustainable mobility company that has not yet developed a bicycle fee for its employees. Important private sectors are also a problem. I am thinking, for example, of the chemicals sector, which is an important player in the port of Antwerp, where mobility has been a bottleneck for some time, but which does not yet have an allocated bicycle fee. Let me give just a few examples. Seventy-five percent of the private sector already grants the bicycle fee today. It is therefore high time to close the remaining hole, to express it in bicycle terms. After all, the company where a person works should not determine whether or not a person is entitled to a bicycle fee. In addition, as the previous speaker pointed out, we ask the social partners to look at the amount of the money and to arrive at an equalisation of the bicycle fee. Today it is incomprehensible to many cyclists that one employee gets 0.16 cents per kilometer, while the other gets 0.24 cents. A tie-up seems therefore appropriate there. As shown, bicycle use increases by as much as 36% when companies offer a bicycle fee. When we, as a country, face major climate and mobility challenges, we must not doubt a modest measure such as this. The bicycle fee is the most effective measure for employers to encourage cycling. This could be a positive step towards facilitating mobility with fewer congestion, sustainable mobility with less CO2 emissions and healthier workers. I would like to thank colleagues for their constructive cooperation in committee, and I hope that we will have the same broad support here as in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u109	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-09-55-plenair-ip050x.u110	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later. Colleagues, as you know, point 5 (point 1390) has been referred to committee. For item 6 (No 1157), most of the speakers for the discussion are in committee. I'm afraid if I opened the discussion, I'd be accused of having committed a coup d'état! So I won't. I suggest that you briefly suspend our work. [[Sentiment]] The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, July 9, 2020 at 5:30 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 July 2020 at 5.30 p.m.
