ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the House is meeting today, as a matter of law, under section 44 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today the Chamber meets automatically on the basis of Article 44 of the Constitution. I declare the 2020-2021 session open. I declare the session 2020-2021 open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u3	The next item is the nomination of the final Bureau. The next item is the appointment of the Permanent Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u4	The Bureau shall be composed as follows: - the President, - three Vice-Presidents, - and members of the Bureau. The Agency shall consist of: - the President, - the three Vice-Presidents, - and the Bureau members. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member of the Bureau referred to in point 1. The Office shall be supplemented by: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who are not members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 1 member of the Office referred to. The President shall be appointed in accordance with rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The President shall be elected in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158(1), first sentence, and on a proposal from the political groups, provided that the Presidency is taken into account for the assignment of these functions in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups and that as many appointments are made as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau." The Chamber shall appoint the Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau in accordance with Rule 158 No. 1, first sentence, on a proposal from the political groups. The Presidency shall be included in the allocation of these functions according to the proportional representation of the political groups. In addition, as many members as are necessary to ensure that each political group with at least 12 members has at least one member of the Bureau." We now turn to the appointment of a Speaker of the House. But before that, I would like to say a few words to you. First of all, I thank you for your confidence. Guideing the work of our assembly has not always been a rest. Coronavirus has forced us to radically rethink our working methods. He pushed us out of our comfort zone. I refer, for example, to our recent work in the Chamber of the European Parliament. In difficult circumstances, the Chamber, week after week, month after month, has passed the necessary laws to support citizens, families and businesses. It is my conviction that Parliament should play a leading role, including in the formulation of long-term visions. We must prepare for the future. We must also provide a basis at a time when many have doubts about our ability to cope with this crisis. I therefore believe that we should be able to go beyond simply checking the government or dealing with its draft laws. Let us in this House reflect more deeply on important issues that may receive less attention in the government. I am thinking, for example, of democratic and institutional renewal. I am also thinking of ethical issues. Our Assembly must remain a place of debate, a place where everyone can make their case, where the confrontation of ideas takes place with respect and not with permanent aggression. I must say that I have sometimes been struck by the change in the mode of communication in recent years. We are all in contact with the outside world today via smartphones or laptops. Hardly any Prime Minister or any other member of the government has made a statement or they will receive the first tweets and facebook messages within a few seconds, both within and outside the parliamentary hemisphere. Some Members of this House also often cross swords in a virtual way, so in addition to flashing politics, we can also talk today about flashing or flaming commentary. I would therefore like to mention the new media as the fifth power. Colleagues, we must embrace that evolution. I am clear in this: democracy has never been more transparent, and that is a very good thing in itself, but we must not be blind to the shadows of these flames. An important pillar of our parliamentary democracy is also reflection, discussion, weighing up pros and contras and also the inclusion of spontaneous, but often unsophisticated proposals. That too is part of that and we must all, therefore, pay attention to each and every one of us, including myself, that we do not go blindly along in the delusion of the day. The political debate must not deviate, and that is the beauty of this House: there are many views expressed by many groups. That is our own representative system, and as far as I am concerned we must keep it. That's my personal conviction. A majority system, as in the United Kingdom, may seem more effective, but I am asking whether it is. Recent history shows that it isn't. As Speaker of the House, I was bound by a certain duty of reserve. I will find in a few minutes my full and complete freedom of expression. I'm glad. My last words will be words of thanks: I thank colleagues. I would also like to thank the general public and the staff of the House who worked hard to ensure that our work in "corona" mode takes place in the best possible conditions. Finally, I thank the press, which continues, without fail, to cover our activities. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u5	The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. In accordance with the House decision of 8 October 2020, members voted from Thursday 8 October 2020 until today at 2 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the Chamber of 8 October 2020, members were able to vote from Thursday 8 October 2020 until today at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u6	I declare the ballot closed. The vote is closed. The result of the election for the appointment of the Chair is as follows: These are the results of the secret ballot for the appointment of the President: Voters 134 Stemmen White or invalid 3 Blank or invalid Valid 131 Geldig Absolute majority 66 Perfect majority Ms. Eliane Tillieux obtained 91 votes. Mrs Eliane Tillieux has received 91 votes. Mme Valerie Van Peel a obtenu 40 voix. Mrs Valerie Van Peel has received 40 votes. Since Ms. Eliane Tillieux obtained 91 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, she was elected President. Since Mrs Eliane Tillieux obtained 91 votes, this is the absolute majority, I pronounce her President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u7	I am very pleased to have the privilege of being the first outgoing president to give the torch, for the first time in the history of our institution, to a woman. Mrs Tillieux, dear colleague, I wish you every success. Thank you all. I ask the Speaker of the House to take a seat at the office. I would ask the President of the Chamber to sit at the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, I am leaving this chair, but it is a pleasure to give the floor to Mr De Roover as the last act in this chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u8	Mr President, just as regards the separation of the transfer, the pleasure is to enjoy the mutual honour of being the last to be mentioned by you in this position. We've met in a bit of controversy over the past few weeks, but that should be possible. I think this has also influenced or will have affected our personal relationship in genes. When you leave this chair, I will no longer be able to address you as chairman, unless I become a member of the Climate Committee, I understand. I'll still be able to handle that appeal. However, I will give this credit to Mr Wollants. I would like to thank you for your Presidency, despite the controversy we have had, but above which we must stand. Because of circumstances, this has been a very separate presidency. We are in the hemisphere today, but this is still a disabled form of parliament and parliamentary debate. You have had to re-invent Parliament a little bit in particularly difficult circumstances. I would like to thank you for that. I would like to thank you for the intransigence you have sometimes shown. Something in me says that you may not occasionally mind that you no longer have to observe the task of President and that you will be able to express it in full force, without any limitation, from the seat that awaits you there. I very much look forward to your renewed mandate as a full Member of Parliament, in which you must and will defend a government agreement, which you were not entirely strange about. I think I speak on behalf of everyone when I say that we have appreciated you as President of the Chamber and that we have also appreciated the way in which you have held that office. In addition, as chairman of the largest opposition group, I would like to congratulate your successor. This is indeed a special moment in this respect. Whatever the election results would have been, the president would have been a woman. Mrs Tillieux, you may suspect from that outcome and from the person who is the opposite candidate that not all my group voted for you. That presumption is not wrong, but yet we consider you as our President and President of Parliament, of all parliamentary rights and of all parliamentary prerogatives, and we want to see you as an ally in the role this House can and will play in relation to the executive, who is very welcome here, but who is always visiting. We wish you every success in the exercise of that function.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, beste collega's, first of all, I would of course like to thank you for the trust that has been given. With serenity, benevolence and firmness, I will invest in the exercise of the function to deserve and maintain your confidence. I would also like to pay tribute to our colleague Valerie Van Peel. For the first time in Parliament's history, two women are candidates for the Presidency. What an evolution. What a revolution even. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is a victory that I wish to dedicate to all women. To all the women who preceded us in this assembly. To all women who have forced entry to become involved in politics, to gain access to the labour market, to change the world, to put equality between men and women on the front line of our societies, to defend our freedoms. Really, from the depths of myself, I want to share this moment with all women, but not just. I also want to share this moment with all the men who have fought and are still fighting for the equality, freedom and emancipation of women. Ladies and gentlemen, our country today is headed by a joint government. The Senate and the House are chaired by women. It's not anecdotal. It's not just symbolic. It is in reality a sign of the vivacity of our forces of progress and of the openness of our mindsets and of the mentality of our fellow citizens. I am happy and proud to be living this change in our institutions and in our society. Mr President, dear Patrick, I know that you are committed to the values of emancipation and equality. I would also like to thank you for re-chairing this Parliament in this crisis year. Our country experienced a political crisis, a health crisis, an economic crisis. In those difficult moments, parliament was a tumultuous vessel of ideas. You have kept the assembly in line and managed the anger, the energy, the turbulent and heated debates, the dozens of texts and hundreds of amendments so that our country could cope with the devastating impact of COOVID-19. Despite the special powers, in spite of the distancing, this assembly remained alive, hard-working, dynamic to bring so many answers, so many solutions. Really, I wish to pay tribute to you. You have exercised this presidency with all the professionalism, serenity, experience, charisma and elegance we know you. [[Supported applause]] I must point out, ladies and gentlemen, that today is a very special day for our President, since it is precisely the day of his birthday. [[Applause]] As I said, in the adversity of recent months, the House has once again shown its importance. It has shown the vigour of its action in the search for solutions, compromises. To occupy this seat today is for me an honour, but also, and above all, a duty, the duty to allow every colleague, each group to speak, to make his voice heard in this house of democracy in our country. I will carry out this duty in good intelligence with each of you, but also with the services of our assembly, the women and men who make up them and who enable us to ensure, every day, the quality and smooth running of our work, essential work to which we must continue to breathe new dynamism into a collaborative federalism. I also take this opportunity to thank all the services and all the staff of the Chamber for their quality work, their availability and their professionalism. Respect for democracy and the exercise of democracy are the essence of this assembly. In addition to the current challenges, many talk about the preparation of tomorrow's world. It can't be just a slogan. The House must seize the long-term debates in addition to its oversight functions of government action. There are many challenges: the future of health care, sustainable economic recovery, the fight against poverty and all forms of discrimination, security, the sustainability of our social security system and pensions, the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the fight against global warming, digitalisation and, above all, our country's place in the face of European and international challenges. Faced with these challenges, sometimes these challenges, citizen participation must be a priority. Parliament must be rethought, modernised to be the true home of participatory democracy. Our assembly must be a house of democracy that listens to the citizens, who can carry out legislative initiatives together with us, with whom we will sit in panels to find solutions to many challenges. Parliament must be a house of democracy that listens to civil society and to universities to give new meaning to the world of tomorrow and to the important fundamental and constitutional freedoms. It must also be a house that listens to the other levels of policy. I am thinking here of the mayor's conference, which we will organise every year in this House. A house of open democracy, but also ready to go on tour, as suggested by the government agreement. This idea of a tour is a Parliament that goes to meet the citizens, it is parliamentarians who will leave the Chamber to meet the citizens. We will have to think together about how to open Parliament to young and old, and how to go to meet them. In the very near future, I will set up a think tank to move towards a more participatory democracy. The liveliness and quality of our work will also be measured by our ability to listen, to share our right of initiative, to modernise our society, to dialogue widely. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of multilateralism, parliamentary diplomacy and the European Union. Our country has always been a leader in the European project. In 2024, Belgium will hold the rotating presidency of the European Council. I really want Parliament to be involved in the preparation of this presidency. The House, together with the citizens, must be a force of proposal to build the Europe of tomorrow. I will take concrete initiatives through a think tank open to civil society, NGOs, social partners and universities to strengthen the citizens' Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you once again for your support. Let us enable our noble institution, through our unity in our diversity of opinions and opinions, to carry out its essential tasks in the best possible way for the benefit of the whole population. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u10	Thank you very much, colleagues. I am, of course, moved to be able to sit before you today. We begin our work immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u11	The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau. In accordance with Rules 3, 1, and 158, No. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, on the understanding that the Presidency is taken into account for the assignment of these functions, we shall appoint three Vice-Presidents and as many appointments as are necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau. In accordance with Articles 3, 1 and 158 No. 1 of the Rules of Procedure include the Presidency in the allocation of these posts and we appoint three Vice-Presidents and as many members as necessary so that each political group with at least 12 members has at least one member of the Bureau. Therefore, we proceed with the appointment in the following order: Consequently, we shall appoint in the following order: - the N-VA Group proposes Ms Valerie Van Peel as Vice-President - the Ecolo-Groen Group proposes Mr Wouter De Vriendt as Vice-President - the Vlaams Belang Group proposes Mr Tom Van Grieken as Vice-President. - the N-VA Group proposes Ms Valerie Van Peel as Vice-President - the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance proposes Mr Wouter De Vriendt as Vice-President - the Flemish Interest Group proposes Mr Tom Van Grieken as Vice-President. I declare Valerie Van Peel and MM. Wouter De Vriendt and Tom Van Grieken as Vice-Presidents of the House. I declare Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Tom Van Grieken elected Vice-Presidents of the Chamber. The House then makes as many appointments as it is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau. - the MR Group proposes Ms Kattrin Jadin as a member of the Bureau - the N-VA Group proposes Mr Sander Loones as a member of the Bureau - the CD&V Group proposes Ms Nahima Lanjri as a member of the Bureau - the PVDA-PTB Group proposes Mr Marco Van Hees as a member of the Bureau - the Open Vld Group proposes Mr Patrick Dewael as a member of the Bureau. The Chamber shall then appoint as many members as necessary so that each political group with at least 12 members has at least one member of the Bureau. - the MR Group proposes Ms Kattrin Jadin as Bureau member the N-VA Group proposes Mr Sander Loones as Bureau member - the CD&V Group proposes Ms Nahima Lanjri as Bureau member - the PVDA-PTB Group proposes Mr Marco Van Hees as Bureau member - the Open Vld Group proposes Mr Patrick Dewael as Bureau member. I declare Mrs and Mr. Kattrin Jadin, Sander Loones, Nahima Lanjri, Marco Van Hees and Patrick Dewael as members of the House Bureau. I declare the ladies and gentlemen Kattrin Jadin, Sander Loones, Nahima Lanjri, Marco Van Hees and Patrick Dewael elected members of the Bureau of the Chamber. The following members of the Bureau are also members of the Bureau: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members. I give the floor to the chairpersons of the sp.a and cdH groups for the appointment of an associate member. I declare Messrs. Joris Vandenbroucke and Georges Dallemagne as associate member of the Bureau. The Office shall also include: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups: . Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; . Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Chairman of the Ecolo Green Group; . Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Chairman of the PS Group; . Ms Barbara Pas, President of the Flemish Interest Group; . Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Chairman of the MR Group; . Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; . Mr Raoul Hedebouw, Chairman of the PVDA-PTB Group; . Ms Maggie De Block, Chairman of the Open Vld Group; . Ms Melissa Depraetere, Chairman of the sp.a Group; . Ms Catherine Fonck, Chairman of the CdH Group; - one member per political group with fewer than 12 members. I give the floor to the chairmen of the spa and cdH groups to appoint an additional member. I declare Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Georges Dallemagne elected members of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-13-55-plenair-ip063x.u12	The Chamber is constituted. This will be made known to the King, the Senate and the parliaments of the Community and the Region. The Chamber has been declared lawful and complete. This will be notified to the King, to the Senate and to the community and regional parliaments. That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnis gesetzt. I would also like to announce that I will convene a Bureau tomorrow to allow for the appointment of the members of the Governance Committee. The next meeting will take place on Thursday. I wish you an excellent end of the day and thank you for your attention. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 15, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 15 October 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
