ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u1	Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to this special committee meeting with a number of people physically present in the room and most of them virtually. We also welcome the Foreign Minister, who is now in the picture. We have brought together all oral questions relating to corona linked to the foreign affairs policy area in an exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make a point: the introduction will be very general; then, depending on the questions, I will try to shed as much light as possible on each other. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the services of the Chamber for today's technical organisation, which allows the Foreign Affairs Committee to meet. As we all know and experience, our continent, and indeed the whole world, is faced with an unprecedented crisis that requires appropriate action from the government. All ministers of this government, led by Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès, will be deployed in consultation with the Communities and the Regions for their respective powers. In my capacity as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I am fully committed. I enjoy the continuing commitment and skills of my administration, both in Brussels and in the 118 diplomatic and consular posts, where 24 hours work out of 24 women and men who understand very well what the words "public service" mean. They can meet these challenges and do everything in their power to help our fellow citizens in need abroad. We have taken the necessary steps quickly in the light of developments in the world situation. On March 3, I cancelled the Diplomatic Days, which should have been held from March 16 to 20, and which bring together our Chiefs of Post each year. The idea behind this cancellation was to anticipate what eventually happened and to allow each of our positions to be as effective as possible, with all the staff on the spot. On 14 March, after several updates of individual travel notices, notably for Italy, I decided to publish a global one, not recommending all non-essential travel anywhere in the world. This is the day the Foreign Affairs Crisis Centre was activated. Since then, the call centre has been strengthened. On March 18, pursuant to section 7 of the Ministerial Order of the same day, we prohibited non-essential travel abroad. It was on that date that we started our air repatriation operations. Since 19 March, the crisis centre has operated 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. In order to promote and facilitate all repatriations, we use all the classic and most modern channels of communication to inform Belgians abroad. Belgium started its flight repatriation operation on 18 March 2020. Thanks to an excellent organisation, we are engaged in one of the most successful repatriation missions ever organised by the Foreign Office. Until today, more than 5,000 Belgians were repatriated by us. We were faced with the closure of some borders and the gradual abolition of regular lines in a rather brutal way, with the closure of airspace and airports and with the lockdown measures in sometimes remote areas. Who is given priority assistance in repatriating? These are Belgians who are temporarily on the move for tourist purposes, family visits, short professional or academic trips. It also helps non-Belgian beneficiaries with Belgian family members and the parents of people with a residence permit in Belgium who are in the same situation. That allows me to emphasise and reiterate my position with regard to persons who are dual nationals. Under no circumstances do we discriminate against these people. By no means! No discrimination, no favouritism, no sorting, no choice in repatriation lists and never, my services or myself have abandoned binational individuals in any particular country. I say again: I categorically refute the accusations of double standard, as I have been able to read on several occasions, of the Belgians in the so-called second category. These accusations, I make it clear, are unworthy and are at best the result of a lack of information, at worst a bad faith and perhaps a spirit of political recovery of the community, in any case a very bad practice in general and here in particular. Whether we want it or not, whether we have the honesty to recognize it or not, there are standards that are binding on all of us, including in the context of international law. As far as the management of multiple nationalities is concerned, the 1930 Hague Convention serves as a reference text. Article 4: "A State may not exercise its diplomatic or consular profession for the benefit of one of its nationals against a State of which the latter is also the national." Article 5 of the Convention also provides that the nationality of the country in which the person has his habitual and principal residence may be taken into account. It is on this article 5 that I have based myself on a letter to my Moroccan counterpart, co-signed with my Dutch counterpart, dated 31 March 2020. We do likewise in our contacts with the Burundian authorities, the two countries, Morocco and Burundi, being the only ones with which we have encountered such difficulties. I made these arguments again yesterday to the Moroccan Ambassador and the Burundian Ambassador in Brussels. These are the details I can give you. The questions may follow and we will then go further in detail, given the particular situation in Morocco and Burundi. The work is continuing. This week, I am conducting a series of consultations with all the postal heads to take stock of the situation in their jurisdiction and to consider future actions to assist our compatriots abroad. They are with many and each of them deserves equal attention. This clarification was made in the most clear and unambiguous way. I am therefore prepared to answer your specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. I would now like to give the floor to those who have tabled a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u4	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. I have two questions on the agenda and I will bring them together immediately. The first question concerns the fact that since the outbreak of the corona virus in China, the Chinese government has taken and is still taking all kinds of measures to control negative information reaching the outside world from China. The Chinese government is particularly critical of the Chinese government's approach to the initial phase of the outbreak. For example, social media systematically deletes messages about the late Dr. Li Wenliang, the doctor who warned the world about the coronavirus. The deceased doctor is considered a whistleblower worldwide after his announcement of the coronavirus. Over the last few months, many Chinese citizens would have been arrested after being critical of the handling of the virus on social media. China's lack of commitment to freedom of expression and human rights has been known for a long time. Minister, are you aware of these facts? What does the government think of this control of the Chinese government over its citizens? Do you intend to raise these facts with the Chinese ambassador? My second question concerns travellers stranded abroad. Because of the corona crisis, many Belgians who stay abroad are difficult to get back home. Currently there are still thousands of stranded Belgians registered on the Travellers Online platform. Due to the rapid expansion of the coronavirus, travellers worldwide saw their airline tickets cancelled by tour operators, often without sight on another flight. Yesterday, for the second time in Spain, victims were told that their flights were being cancelled. Only on 15 May, if the airlines do not decide to cancel again, will they be able to return to Belgium. It is reported that communication with Foreign Affairs is not always smooth and is not always properly informed, or simply does not know the answer. People are being sent from the locker to the wall. One is referred to the embassy, where one refers to a local consulate, where one refers to the website diplomacy.belgium.be. Travellers spend hours of their time and money on phone calls and look for a possible solution. In a specific case, last week, after two weeks of walking back and forth and calling, it was reported, confirmed by the embassy, that nothing is foreseen for these people. Minister, last week you advised the Belgians who are still stuck abroad to take a look at the Facebook group Belgians for Eachaar. Our compatriots can find advice from other Belgians who are permanently staying abroad, that's what it sounded like. Minister, how many Belgians still need a solution? What countries are they currently residing in? How many Belgians have found a solution in the meantime? Are you aware of complaints about miscommunications? What happens to fellow countrymen who are urged by the country in which they reside to leave this country, but who have no sight of a return flight? Is it not primarily the responsibility of the government to ensure that stranded compatriots are properly informed instead of referring to a Facebook group? Then I come to my last question. Today in De Morgen it says that Brussels Airlines, which in principle restarts its activity on 15 May, states that aircraft are available for repatriation flights and the transport of humanitarian goods, if there is a demand for them. Today is April 7th, more than a month before May 15th. There's enough demand for repatriation. Why are future planned commercial flights, which are now offered to stranded passengers, not immediately included in the whole of repatriation flights, provided that all safety and health measures are complied with?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u5	Madam Chair, first of all, I would like to thank the staff of the House from the bottom of my heart, through whom this committee can take place in quite exceptional circumstances. As far as I'm concerned, this is the first time I've sat on a commission by videoconference. I would also like to thank the Minister and, in particular, the FPS Foreign Affairs officers who have been on the bridge for over two weeks, almost day and night, to help the thousands of Belgians stranded abroad. Their mobilization on the ground, but also on social networks (Twitter, Facebook) or via the ministry's call centre, forces respect. It is important to be able to recognize this here in Parliament. You will not be surprised, minister, that, as parliamentarians, we are being arrested almost daily by families in distress. For us, the priority is to pay particular attention to the most fragile people. I am thinking of the elderly, the sick, the people who have to undergo treatment in Belgium, the people who are blocked in unstable areas or even in conflict, or in areas where health care is not at all at the same level as in Belgium. I am also thinking – this is the subject of one of my oral questions on our agenda today – of the very young Belgian children stranded in Syria in overcrowded camps that are now facing an unprecedented pandemic. I would like to take this short moment, Minister, to draw your attention to the situation of binationals. You talked about it during your introduction. It is true that, since yesterday, we have been facing a particularly serious situation in Burundi, since 37 Belgians were totally disembarked from a flight on the pretext that they had a dual nationality, including Burundian nationality. I know that you have already had contacts with the Burundian authorities, perhaps via the Burundian ambassador in Brussels. I look forward to you giving me more information on the urgent repatriation of these binationals who are still blocked in Burundi. I must confess, Minister, that I am also being arrested daily by Belgian-Moroccan families. I know that seven planes were able to take off from Agadir and Marrakech, further south. But in northern Morocco, where binationals are concentrated, people are still blocked on the spot and are sometimes in very serious and very critical health situations. You gave us figures a few days ago. Of the 500 persons registered in Morocco, 410 Belgians had dual nationality, i.e. 82% of Belgians blocked on the spot. I have heard your clarification, Minister, and I welcome your call not to discriminate, and not to treat Belgians and binationals differently. We must admit that this has not always been the case in our country's practice. Moreover, Article 79 of the Consular Code should be corrected in this respect. For me, he discriminates against binationals. It is important to be clear here in Parliament, especially since we are in a crisis situation. No, Belgium does not have a subclass of Belgo-Moroccoans. Belgium has no second-class Belgians. There is only one nationality, Belgian, and the Constitution recognizes the principle of equality and non-discrimination between all Belgians. As you said, binationality cannot be set up as a bulwark against the granting of consular assistance, and I welcome it. I think that today the urgency is to repatriate all Belgians, especially the most fragile, but all Belgians, regardless of their origins or binationality. That must be very clear. I have been approached by families, and I have found that most of these Belgians were born in Belgium, have always worked there and have children in Belgium. This is the third or fourth generation. The Belgian-Moroccoans cannot even give up their second Moroccan nationality. The least we can do is tell them that they are not forgotten and that their first home is actually here in Belgium. What I do not understand, Minister, is that you are talking about a blockade on the part of Morocco. Like all other colleagues, I am on the international scene and I see that other countries are able to repatriate their nationals, including binationals. I see that Canada, again on Wednesday, March 25, managed to charter a flight from Casablanca. In total, more than 1,250 Canadians, half of them binationals, were able to return to Canada. Same thing in France. Same thing in Spain. I know this Friday, a flight took off from Casablanca airport. I also learned that ferries continued to sail. If these countries have been able to urgently repatriate their nationals, including binationals, I am quite legitimately wondering why Belgium cannot do the same. Mr Minister, my question is really quite simple: what are you going to be able to do in the very short term to repatriate as quickly as possible all those Belgians still stranded abroad, including binationals, who are really often in a panic situation? Is it possible, as other countries have done, to repatriate again this week the most serious humanitarian cases? I am sure that the Kingdom of Morocco will see no inconvenience in repatriating the most serious cases, the most urgent ones, for example those who are ill. These Belgians are waiting in the greatest distress for emergency humanitarian flights back to Belgium. Finally, in the alternative: in the worst case, even if an immediate flight was not possible, can you assure us here in the House that our diplomatic and consular representations are proactively in contact with all our nationals to be sure that these people who are still stranded abroad have access to sufficient resources to live or even survive?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for organising this Zoom meeting. I will limit my introduction as my predecessors have already said a great deal. I would like to talk specifically about the Belgians who are stuck abroad, especially in areas where borders have been closed. How many passengers have been stuck in areas that have suspended air traffic to Europe since the measures in force in Belgium? Which countries exactly are they talking about? We know, of course, that Morocco, the Dominican Republic and Senegal have introduced this measure. Have they informed us, as a European country, in good time? I'm guessing you, as Foreign Secretary, had prior discussions on that? Has Belgium anticipated enough in time? I have also received many other reports from travellers who were detained abroad. Of course, commercial flights to get home have become very expensive, but I hear that the cost of repatriation flights could also rise to EUR 1,500. Is that right? This is a dossier in Mexico, where EUR 1,500 per passenger would have been requested from a family of four. These are, of course, high rising costs. My next question follows. How will these costs be determined and who will pay for these costs? Is it the families who are stuck abroad, or will an arrangement be made? Finally, the way in which stranded Belgians have been contacted abroad is not always easy. Of course, I respect the efforts made by our country in this area and, of course, also by your cabinet, but I have received many signals that the emergency line for Belgians abroad was often unreachable. What is the current situation with regard to the capacity of the workers manning this line? Will additional capacity be deployed in the coming days to at least address the stranded Belgians? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, my question is not so much about the repatriation of our compatriots, but it is a question that we may have to ask ourselves after this health crisis, in particular about the Chinese responsibility in this matter. While the whole world is currently experiencing the spread of the corona virus, which rightly focuses on protecting public health and restricting the spread of the virus, it seems appropriate, especially for you as Foreign Minister, to consider the consequences of this crisis. The question that arises automatically is how much Chinese responsibility is for the global corona crisis and what lessons our country, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should take for our future dealings with that country. Everyone knows that China is a communist authoritarian state that can impose strong measures without any debate, which is of course a great advantage to the regime in question. One of the disadvantages of such a regime is, in turn, the tendency to suppress bad news and the actual debate on social problems, which often leads to too late solutions which, as we now experience, have serious consequences for the rest of the world. Once again, this seems to have been the case in the current crisis. Let me quote a few examples. While China's rival, Taiwan, started strict controls on mainland passenger traffic at the beginning of January, the People's Republic of China allowed millions of people to cross the Wuhan border. Already on December 26, the virus was recognized by Chinese laboratories as a form of coronavirus and immediately thereafter a local authority ordered that the investigation be stopped and the samples destroyed. There are several examples, but I will confine myself to those two. All these examples show that at the stage of the actual outbreak the regime was only concerned with its own reputation, with the creation of propaganda material, and showed indifference, in the opinion of many, a criminal indifference, for the potential consequences of the disease. That's why I'm happy to ask you the following questions. Firstly, how do you assess the responsibility of the Chinese regime? Secondly, have you discussed this with the Chinese ambassador or other bodies? If so, what was the content of that? If not, when will you do this? The third question is perhaps premature, but something to think about. What consequences do you intend to draw from this as regards our future dealings with China? What are your views on this in all relevant international bodies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u8	Mrs Van Bossuyt has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u9	Madam President, what about my other questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u10	You had three questions, but I didn't think you'd ask them. You can put those questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u11	My second question No. 55004206C was converted into a written question. My third question is not immediately at hand. If necessary, can I ask you later?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u12	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van Bossuyt. Then I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u13	Thank you all for making this meeting possible. My two questions also concern stranded travellers. I won't do the whole story again. What is particularly striking is that people who are abroad do not know where they can go. For example, there is currently a group of Belgians stuck in New Zealand. They asked the consulate for information, but they didn't. They then turned to the consulate in Canberra, Australia, of which they received more information than the consulate in Christchurch. That raises questions. The same applies to Belgians in Bolivia. Today people have come back from Laos, but thanks to contacts someone else had in Laos at diplomatic level. It is a pity that this is the way to work and that no more efforts are being made from Belgium. It's a lottery: Belgians stranded abroad have to count on the goodwill of the neighbouring countries and hope to get a place on flights organized by Germany, the Netherlands or Switzerland for example. That's too bad. Today I would like to add a number of questions to the whole list that have been asked. Can you give an overview of the number of Belgians who are still abroad? Are there any problems with stranded passengers at Belgian airports? What will you do to get that group of people home safely after all? After all, several questions have already been asked here and we have heard several testimonies here. What additional measures will Belgium take? Finally, how will the people who are still abroad be supported in the meantime? For a lot of people, this also means a lot of extra financial costs. In what way will these costs possibly be taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u14	Mr Minister, there are other signals about the corona virus coming to our country, to put it that way. Several channels are sending signals that in the Democratic Republic of Congo, as well as in Central Africa and perhaps in other African countries, Westerners in particular would be endorsed, because they would be the fault of the Corona drama. Last weekend, videos of evacuated Europeans showed up that were bothered and even attacked. Evacuations would take place at the moment. Various videos and messages on social media would also call for horrific violence against Westerners or Europeans. There is currently a very dangerous situation on the ground, some say, and an escalation must be avoided. My questions to you are as follows. Are you aware of this situation in Congo and Central Africa and possibly in other countries? Do you know if there are any Belgians among the evacuated or victims? Have you already been in contact with the ambassadors and/or with the partner countries present on the ground? Has our government had to take any steps in this respect? If so, what measures are they? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u15	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for having been able to organise this committee. It is very important, despite the difficult circumstances, to allow Parliament to control the government's action, while knowing that we are of course supporting it in the difficult tasks it is currently facing. I have indeed put several questions. I'm going to regroup the second and the third. The first was the repatriation of our nationals abroad. This concerns a lot of people and it seems to me that more clarification should be possible. Minister, I want to clarify things. We are all aware of the work done by your firm, by your administration, by our diplomacy. We are also aware of the fact that you have been taken at short notice by the decisions finally taken very quickly by different States, in particular with regard to the closure of their airspace. However, I believe that we should not see the current impossibility of repatriating our citizens as a fatality and I invite you to continue your efforts. As my colleague, Mr Cogolati, said earlier, other States have seen themselves in the same situation as we are in today and, despite everything, solutions have been found. I am thinking of France, Spain, the United States, Canada, where the intervention of diplomacy, and the head of government with respect to Canada, was able to ensure that flights were chartered to repatriate nationals, sometimes in very large numbers. It is clear, therefore, that diplomacy can bear fruit. Therefore, Minister, the first question I wanted to hear from you is whether a request similar to that made and obtained by these countries has been requested through you. You mentioned just now the 1930 Hague Convention, which states that dual nationality is not a choice. It is something that people are forced to do and, unfortunately, each State is free to provide its own interpretation. Morocco has always had the same interpretation, namely that it refuses the foreign nationality of the person if the same person also has Moroccan nationality. The attitude of Morocco, therefore, is not a surprise. Burundi's attitude raises more questions, in the sense that it intervenes in a rather worrying political context. I appreciate your attitude, which is to say that the criterion of habitual residence must be given priority, an interpretation that you draw from Article 5. I think you must persevere because these people are citizens in their own right. There is an urgent need for more specific action in Morocco, as medical follow-up is very difficult. Belgo-Moroccoans died of coronavirus in Morocco. What measures have been taken to ensure medical follow-up, which is essential and urgent? I hear you're working on solutions for binationals in Morocco. Are you planning humanitarian flights to give priority to elderly or chronically ill people who really require specific medical treatment? There is also an urgent need for Burundi. Even if there are only three proven cases, the situation could very quickly deteriorate because Burundi is not prepared to deal properly with this crisis and there is no containment yet. Mr Minister, I would have liked to hear from you about the possible consultation with other European countries on binationals and about the state of negotiations to charter an aircraft from Bujumbura. Madam President, I would also like to speak on the situation in other states. I had introduced a question on Niger and another on Hungary, which I would like to bring together. I am concerned about the fate of journalists and other members of civil society who are threatened with imprisonment for disseminating information on the prevention of coronavirus. Since then, a journalist, whose case was very publicized, has – fortunately – been released, having received a suspended sentence. In several countries, therefore, there is a criminalization of freedom of expression and disclosure of important information in the context of this crisis. In our view, the FPS Foreign Affairs priority must be the repatriation of our nationals. However, the coronavirus crisis has also shown the importance of solidarity between European states and, more generally, the whole world. We must affirm our commitment to the values of the rule of law, even if our country is not affected. With regard to African States, I would have liked to hear from you about the measures envisaged by our Government to support transparency of information and freedom of expression and the press. These principles are all the more essential today as they guarantee the protection of these populations in a very difficult medical and health context. As far as Hungary is concerned, as you know, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán took advantage of the crisis of the coronavirus to further strengthen its base, to lock up other powers and to undermine their separation and, consequently, to destabilise the rule of law. His attitude has been criticized on all sides: by many international organisations, by the Council of Europe and also by Didier Reynders, European Commissioner for the Rule of Law – which I thank him for. Still, this drift is very serious. As I said, we are taking advantage of a health crisis to undermine fundamental freedoms. Certain information is criminalized at the risk of having press outlets put in trouble. This crisis is also being used to suspend the application of national legislation transposing European directives. That is why I believe our country has a role to play, given our current position at the European Council and the European Commission. The EPP, the European People's Party, is considering excluding Fidesz, Mr Orban's party. That is a good thing, but I think that it is above all at the level of the European Commission and the European Council that things must be able to break free. The Article 7 procedure of the Treaty of the European Union was initiated in September 2018, but is currently blocked. I think that Mr Orban's recent drift must be able to act as a lever to speed it up. Mr Minister, is this acceleration of the Article 7 procedure on the agenda of your next meetings with your European counterparts? It seems to me very important not to allow this health crisis to be used as a pretext and to ensure that we are more proactive in respecting fundamental freedoms in the Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u16	Madam President, Minister, first of all I sincerely hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you and your loved ones are doing well. I also wanted to thank the staff of the House who are present and who allow this commission to be organized. We think of all those who continue to work so that we can preserve a semblance of normality. Minister, I wanted to ask you about the situation in Gaza. As you know, Gaza is 13 years of blockade imposed by Israel. It's 2 million people. That's 5,300 people per square mile. It's 100 ICU beds for 2 million people. If this crisis is frightening for us, for our countries, for other countries in the world, I have special attention to the situation in the Gaza Strip. I would like to ask you about this, since this population density is worrying. In addition to this population density and the political context of the blockade, we must also realize that the health situation in Gaza is already catastrophic, including a lack of access to safe drinking water – 97 per cent of the groundwater is polluted – and a lack of access to a wide range of health services in general. Minister, allow me to relay the fear of the director of UNRWA, who calls for urgent funding for Gaza, to bring medical equipment. Will Belgium contribute financially to the response to this call? My second question is political. What is Belgium's position on the urgency of ending this inhuman and illegal blockade? The best thing would have been for this to be done by Israel, but I believe that the urgency requires that we remain pragmatic. Would it not be time to put pressure on Egypt to create even a temporary humanitarian corridor to bring a whole range of goods and possibly evacuate sick people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u17	Minister, I have two questions. Many comments have already been made on repatriation. I trust that with your services you will do everything in your power to get the people back to Belgium. That is also very striking when we look at all the social media. It's not safe everywhere abroad, so that's not an easy thing. The repatriations take place in three ways: you set up your own flights, it goes commercial or it goes European. I have a question about the European approach. The Union Civil Protection Mechanism, UCPM, plays its role with a budget rescue. How does that system work? Is that enough? There has been a lot of criticism over the last few weeks about the European approach. I would like to hear from you how you evaluate cooperation with the European Union in this area. This week is also a very important week for the European Union. President von der Leyen set up a Coronavirus Response Team. Today, the Eurogroup is also coming together. In what way do you participate under your jurisdiction? How do you evaluate what is being set up today by the European Union to combat the health crisis? There is the Joint Procurement Agreement initiative, whereby a joint purchase has been made. I've heard today that 7.5 million mouth masks have been ordered. When will they end up with us? My general question is how you evaluate the European approach and how you see repatriation under the rescue mechanism. My next question concerns cooperation with countries in crisis, such as Spain and Italy, where the highest number of deaths were to be regretted. That goes up to 15,000 per country. Do we stand together in the framework of the European Union to help these countries during this health crisis? Our country can also do more bilaterally. At present, Germany, Luxembourg and Switzerland already include Italian patients in their hospitals. France, the Czech Republic and Germany are already sending 100,000 masks to Italy. The question is how we express our solidarity with Italy and Spain. Our group supported the exchange of doctors and aids and the inclusion of patients. What support measures do you yourself see in relation to countries such as Italy and Spain?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u18	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you are all doing well. I would like to begin by stressing and commending the important efforts that have been made by the Foreign Affairs Service to repatriate thousands of our fellow countrymen who have been stranded in the world because of the health crisis in so many countries. I had, no later than yesterday, very positive feedback from personal knowledge that benefited from the excellent work organized from Peru by our services; I wanted to say so. The problem, minister, is that not everyone can say the same. It is a fact that the situation in Morocco has left many of our compatriots in disarray for more than fifteen days now. Behind every person stranded in this country, there is a family that suffers from waiting for the return of a father, mother, husband, wife, child. Behind each case, there is also the risk of losing a job or no longer having the ability to run a business, a business, a company. Behind every person stranded in Morocco one more day, there is potentially a human tragedy that is being played. It is necessary to be able to put themselves in the place of these people blocked in Morocco or elsewhere to understand the very problematic consequences of the persistence of such a blockage. I read you in the press, minister, and I heard you a few moments ago. I understand the legal framework and the fact that a Belgian-Moroccan binational is considered by the Kingdom of Morocco to be a Moroccan national. I understand that, for you, this situation is an obstacle, impossible at this stage, to the repatriation of our compatriots. Except that Canada has repatriated its binationals, such as the Netherlands, France, Spain, etc. That's the problem. No one understands why what is possible elsewhere is not possible at home. No one understands why others seem to succeed where we fail. Minister, I have also heard the argument regarding the Consular Code. Dual nationality should not be a means of interference in the affairs of a sovereign State. Moreover, during parliamentary debates on the reform of the Consular Code, the Socialist Party had stressed the risks relating to binationals. We should therefore – I would like to say so – review the Consular Code in the light of the difficulties we face today. Speaking of the Consular Code, there is, in our view, a major element that could be invoked: consular assistance for humanitarian reasons. I would like to hear your views on this, Mr. Minister. Nevertheless, for the Socialist Party, this situation becomes untenable because it is incomprehensible to many families. And what seems particularly dangerous to us in this case is that it feeds a form of sense of abandonment, worse still, the feeling of being treated as second-class citizens, as if there were Belgians who deserve to be repatriated and others a little less, in a context where dialogue with our official representations on the spot is going on. Mr Minister, it is essential to take into account the sentiments of this case, which arouses a lot of unsaid and which – it must be noted – generates an injury in the sense of belonging and citizenship of our Moroccan compatriots, rightly or wrongly. Despite your efforts and your explanations, this feeling exists; it must be heard. And I can assure you it's very deep. This case is therefore already beyond the scope of repatriation issues as such. Moreover, it threatens to be a revealing of the fractures of our society. It's a case that really makes a lot of fuss. That is why the Socialist Party is asking for solutions in the urgency Minister, this is my question. How many Belgians and Belgo-Moroccoans are still stuck in Morocco? How many Belgians and binationals are trapped abroad? When was your last contact with the Moroccan authorities? You said you had contact with the ambassador yesterday. How are things changing? Does our diplomacy have problems similar to those in Morocco in other countries? How do you explain that other countries are able to do what we have been unable to do since the last scheduled flights from Morocco fifteen days ago? Do you have contact with your European counterparts in this context? In this particular context of fighting the pandemic, the debate before us demonstrates how important international and development cooperation issues remain and must remain on the government's agenda more than ever before. In this regard, like my colleague, Mr Moutquin, I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the situation in Gaza, which, as everyone knows, is being hit by a brutal blockade which, with a health crisis, could turn into a criminal blockade. As has been recalled, this band of territory has one of the highest population density in the world with only a few dozen resuscitation beds. We must therefore also be concerned about the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u19	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. I would like to join colleagues Moutquin and Ben Achour in expressing the wish that you, the President and the Minister, will be well with your respective families. Minister, for many weeks now, with your colleagues, you have been facing an unprecedented crisis. One of its consequences is, of course, the need to repatriate our nationals, who are all over the world. As we know, such an operation is difficult to deploy, especially in the current context. First of all, on behalf of the Reform Movement, I would like to pay tribute to the work and many efforts you are doing with your services and the hundreds of FPS Foreign Affairs employees who are constantly on the bridge to allow our citizens to return home. I will give a figure: 5,133 Belgians – be they national or binational, they are Belgians – have been repatriated from all over the world. For the Maghreb, the first major operation concerned Morocco, with more than 1,000 returnees. I must mention other countries: Tunisia, Nepal, Uganda, Honduras, Nicaragua, Bolivia, Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, South Africa, Rwanda, Mali and I am passing by. It is simply an unprecedented operation, and I would point out that it was also carried out with the help of the Department of Defence. It is therefore the largest repatriation operation in the history of Belgium in an absolutely new context, since almost all continents and countries in the world are affected by the coronavirus crisis, with all the consequences that result: closure of borders without notice in many states, suppression of flights from most airlines, containment measures that are applied in a very different way, etc. Mr Minister, I have heard you correctly: no one is bound to do so. To track your work and that of your teams day after day, I know that you are deploying treasures of inventiveness and diplomacy to try to have a larger number of Belgians repatriated. And that's very good. Thank you again. Some colleagues speak of "subclass", "second-class citizens". I'd like to register falsely. At no time, in my opinion, can an intellectual attempt be made to recover this issue on a political or even a community level. I hear my colleague Ben Achour, who has just said that this situation is fuelling a sense of abandonment. "Aliment a form of sense of abandonment"... We are there in the register of perception and certainly not in that of the reality of the field. I hear Mr. Ben Achour said this would be an unstoppable obstacle for the minister. I have not heard that at all from Minister Goffin, but on the contrary. I am thinking precisely of this proactivity: when you observe things pragmatically, Morocco closed its borders on 14 March last as a matter of urgency, when thousands of tourists were there, especially Belgians. This is a difficult situation and despite this, seven flights were organised by Brussels Airlines, among others, from Marrakech and Agadir. Mr Cogolati referred to this but forgot to mention that another 19 flights were organised through Ryanair from Tangier in northern Morocco. So no, I do not agree that there would be an abandonment of our binationals in Morocco. It is the opposite, even if there is a sense of abandonment which, I would remind you, falls within the scope of perception. We must be right: Belgium is doing as much as possible today to try to repatriate all Belgians, whether from Morocco or elsewhere on the planet. A Belgian is a Belgian, wherever he is on the globe. I invite you, Minister, but I know that this invitation is an euphemism since you are working on it constantly, to continue your efforts. Moreover, such periods of difficulty make it possible to highlight certain shortcomings and thus to make improvements thereafter. My question is therefore the following. What lessons do you think can be learned at this stage from the instruments we have available to carry out large-scale repatriations? This is indeed the case, and this situation is unprecedented. Do you already have a view of any improvements that could be made in this area? Do you think – I think it is important – that greater cooperation between the Member States of the European Union can be established in the future to prevent such cases? Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u20	Mr Francken has not been notified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u21	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you are all well. I too would like to thank Parliament's services for organising this session. It is indeed important that we should be able to maintain our parliamentary control, even in these exceptional times. Minister, I would like to put a number of questions to you. Unfortunately, the outbreak of the corona virus does not stop the wars, the blockades, the humanitarian crises in the world. On the contrary, the global pandemic risks making the situation of people in war situations and emergencies much worse. We already see that in the facts. There are already very pertinent examples. Our group believes that Belgian diplomacy can certainly play a role in this, both through the European Union and the Security Council. Firstly, we note that access to medical equipment is used here and there as a means of blackmail, as a means of pursuing certain geopolitical interests. Of course, that cannot be the intention. What efforts is our country making to ensure that essential medical material can get where it should be? There are examples of regions where the need is very great, where there are refugee camps: the Middle East, South Sudan, Myanmar, Yemen, the war zone in Syria. That's where the regime acts like corona doesn't exist. It is not obvious to bring medical aid across borders, across borders, to the people. Secondly, there is the situation in Gaza. My colleague Simon Moutquin and others have already mentioned this. Particular attention must be paid to this. There's an Israeli blockade there, including medical supplies. They're gonna keep this blockade going. I see very few concessions from the Israeli side on the humanitarian situation of the Palestinians in Gaza. We believe it is important for our country, possibly through the European Union, to exert pressure to ensure that the blockade of Gaza does not exacerbate the COOVID-19 crisis. Specifically, will our country make an additional effort in favour of UNRWA? UNRWA has a COVID-19 plan, but that has only been financed at 30%. I wonder what information you can give us and what action our country will take. Thirdly, a while ago, the United Nations launched the interesting idea of calling for a global ceasefire in this situation. Can you give us more information about that? What's the status? In particular, Belgium is still a member of the UN Security Council. Are we firmly committed to this idea of a temporary ceasefire in order to meet the humanitarian need caused by the spread of the corona virus? If you will allow me, I would like to follow on from a question that has been asked earlier by a colleague about the atmosphere in Central Africa with regard to Westerners. We have received signals that the atmosphere is changing there. Some blame Westerners, whites. Some call the corona virus a disease of the whites. To what extent are we preparing for a possible escalation? Are there any preparations in progress for a possible evacuation, or are you considering it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u22	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you are all doing well and your respective families. In turn, I would also like to express my appreciation to the services and staff of the House for their dedication and outstanding work in continuing our parliamentary work. Minister, I heard you and Mr. From Maegd about the situation of binationals. You have expressed that all Belgians are equal and that there must be no discrimination or second-class citizens. It is of course a speech that I agree with, but the many testimonies and messages that have come to me unfortunately express a different reality. I am not saying here again what has already been said by my colleagues. To explain the situation on the ground, I take the concrete example of Malak and Nisrine, her mother, who are blocked in Morocco, while the father and the other two children are in Belgium. This family has been torn apart for three weeks. Malak is six years old and has type 1 diabetes. She carries a sensor on her arm to measure her blood glucose level. This sensor has a lifetime of 14 days. In addition, it uses three different insulins. These medicines and equipment are essential for Malak to be able to treat himself. Medical checks, in particular with specialists, are also planned next week, but she cannot go because she is currently blocked in Morocco. His dad, Mohamed, contacted the Belgian embassy and the only answer he got was that we can't do anything for him and that he can contact DHL to pass the medication on to his daughter. He must therefore take the initiative to pass these drugs on to DHL, while his daughter is in a rather sensitive situation. In addition, the nearest location where DHL could deliver is 200 kilometres from where Malak is located, in known containment situations. This situation expresses the whole problem we are facing today. Other countries have managed to repatriate binationals: France, Canada, the United States. They did so even after 22 March, even after the closure of borders and airspace. Other countries have managed to repatriate even dual nationals. Belgium, for its part, has failed to do so for those who are blocked in Morocco today, on the pretext of Morocco's refusal, respect for international law and non-interference in the affairs of the Moroccan State. In my view, neither France nor Canada nor the other countries violated international law by returning their nationals, otherwise there would have been a diplomatic incident between those countries and Morocco, which was not the case. You say that Morocco refuses to allow those binationals who have Moroccan nationality to leave the territory. Did Morocco submit any official documents justifying its refusal? Why is this refusal a problem for Belgium when it does not apply to other countries? There is a problem with us, minister, at least that is the interpretation that it generates. Indeed, as Mr. De Maegd, there are no second-rate citizens, that is what every democrat aspires to in our society, but our problem is that we hide behind our Consular Code, whose Article 79 discriminates against binationals. The Human Rights League noted four discriminations arising from this article against binationals. It explicitly states that "this article creates groups of individuals or in any case subgroups of individuals, in relation to the rest of Belgian citizens". Minister, are you going, like other countries, to do what is necessary so that these Belgo-Moroccans can return to Belgium? If we have these problems, why have the other countries managed to do so? I recall that Malak, whom I mentioned earlier, absolutely needs his treatments to stay healthy. These treatments are very difficult to obtain in Morocco, some are even unavailable. I'm not telling you about his dad's distress and distress when I got him on the phone. Besides, his dad is one of those heroes who make the country run, because he's a driver at STIB and he takes risks every day to transport our fellow citizens and the workers who need to move. He's in the field. He's taking the risk. And he sees his country not doing what it takes for his daughter to go home and get her treatment. That was my first question, Minister. I have a second question about the situation of the Palestinians. The situation in Gaza has been mentioned by the other colleagues, whom I fully agree with. I also express my concern about this issue. But there is also the question of Palestinian prisoners of war. There are approximately 6,000 Palestinian prisoners of war, including hundreds of children, women, the elderly and the sick, who have been detained in Israeli prisons in inhuman and unhealthy conditions for many years. With the rapid spread of large-scale coronavirus, and the overcrowding of these prisons, the risk of transmission of this disease within prisons increases. In Israeli prisons, there are already a large number of prisoners with chronic diseases such as respiratory diseases, diabetes and other diseases. The lives of prisoners are in great danger. Israeli prisons do not meet the minimum requirements and requirements for dealing with the risk of pandemics in these prisons. There is an urgent need to urge the Israeli authorities to ensure the conditions that protect detainees from the virus or to release them, in particular the elderly, chronically ill persons, women and children, so that they can protect themselves at home. Moreover, the situation of the many Palestinians detained in Gaza was just as inhuman and unhealthy. The Israeli government has long prevented the entry of medicines and medical equipment into Gaza. This blockade is already inhuman in itself, but in the situation of a pandemic that has also reached Gaza, it is completely intolerable. The blockade of Gaza must be lifted immediately. Mr Minister, does the Government of our country, which currently sits on the United Nations Security Council, support the request to release these sick prisoners who risk their lives under these inhuman conditions of detention? What concrete projects are you planning to put pressure on the Israeli government to protect the lives of the detainees? Will the minister demand the lifting of the blockade of Gaza in the Security Council and, if not, what grounds would he make for not doing the impossible to put an end to this criminal situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u23	Minister, a lot has already been said, so I shall now turn to my questions. You mentioned in your introduction that many Belgians, already more than 5,000, have been repatriated from abroad. That's a huge operation. Your services have already done a great deal of work. How many Belgians are still abroad who would like to return, but have not yet been able to return? How's the State Department contacting these people? How many repatriation flights are planned? Is cooperation with other countries possible? Which countries are having problems bringing their countrymen back home? Belgium sometimes charges a high cost for repatriation flights. Of course, they are not free, but questions arise as to how that cost is calculated. Belgium charges a cost for repatriation flights, but not for everyone in the same way. It looks at the number of seats available. The cost is divided by the number of seats available. How transparent is this pricing? Do you think this is justified in a situation of force majeure? There are many complaints about large travel organizations, which have taken little responsibility for bringing Belgian travellers back abroad, which means that these Belgians are forced to turn to Foreign Affairs. What signals have you picked up on this? What will you do about this? Have you been in contact with the sector, for example? A number of Belgians could not return or be repatriated in the short term. However, they do need medicines that are not always available in the country in which they are located. In addition, air connections for courier services are becoming more scarce. Do you have a view of this problem? Have you already raised this issue with the sector? I would like to talk about the Belgians who are stuck in Australia and New Zealand. It's often about workingholiday young people, but not always. There's a lot of other Belgians stuck there, too. It now appears that they are receiving very little information from our country and that they are very difficult to return. Sometimes, fortunately, it can be done through flights from other European countries, but that is not evident since the inhabitants of those countries are of course given priority. Do you still plan to organise return flights from these countries? Finally, I would like to comment on the Belgians who are stuck in Europe. In your introduction, you mentioned their blocking for closing the borders. However, we see that other countries manage to bring their compatriots back, for example Canada, the United States and France. It is important that our country makes every effort to repatriate all Belgians, regardless of their possible dual nationality. What additional steps can you take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u24	Madam Chair, I thank the services of the House for making this virtual commission possible. Minister, in recent weeks, the Foreign Affairs Department has had to deal with huge requests for repatriation. The situation is difficult and I thank you for the arrangement put in place and for your availability. I also thank our diplomacy for working day and night to find original solutions. I wanted to take stock of the crisis in VOCID-19 and its impact on international issues. What about the number of Belgians abroad and how many applications for repatriation? Should we deplore the deaths of Belgians abroad as a result of this pandemic and how are things organised then? I also wanted to talk about respect for fundamental rights and individual freedoms in Europe. Some countries are forced to temporarily restrict fundamental freedoms in order to overcome this pandemic. The case of Hungary is serious and goes far beyond what could be allowed in terms of a state of emergency and respect for democratic institutions and fundamental rights. There were violations of freedom of the press, as had been reported by Mrs Rohonyi. I would have wanted to know if Europe had already taken strong positions at this level. Does Belgium intend to take strong positions in relation to what is happening in a country of the European Union? I also have a question about the situation in Greece, another Member State, which is facing a migration crisis at the gates of the European Union. Have we taken any steps to provide the aid that the European Union is supposed to bring in these circumstances? In the same vein, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen spoke in relation to the possible position of the European Union on Italy. I would also like to know our position on this. In Belgium, we are facing a serious crisis, with enormous consequences. Nevertheless, the European Union is also experiencing this crisis and we must feel more connected and work together than ever before. The first lesson we can learn from this crisis is that there is a lack of coherence and integration of a health and health management policy across Europe. Perhaps we could stem certain phenomena if Europe adopted such a policy in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u25	Members who wish to ask supplementary questions will now be given the floor. The N-VA and Ecolo Green Groups have no additional questions. I give the floor to Mr Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u26	Madam President, thank you for your presence. I also thank the services of the House and the Minister. A lot has been said. The efforts that have been made so far and will continue to be made cannot be overemphasized. I would also like to highlight the work done by diplomatic and consular personnel in different parts of the world. This once again demonstrates the importance of public services, particularly outside, such as Defence, as well as development cooperation and foreign affairs. It is clear that there is a clear will to continue efforts to repatriate our fellow citizens by all possible and conceivable means (heaven, land and sea). Here I would like to stress the role of on-site services. Mr. Ben Achour spoke of the situation of our binationals with this sense of injustice shared in the community, which puts us in a very difficult situation to solve this human problem, above all. In addition, emphasis must be placed on the assistance of our staff abroad, who must be accompanied in their efforts. Indeed, pressure, anger, tension can create certain relational problems. In addition, I would like to highlight the danger of scams. As is always the case in times of crisis, people exploit distress situations to make money and organize pseudo-repatriation. They leave people on the tarmac or on the shores without giving them the opportunity to achieve the goal they had set themselves. Minister, allow me to make a suggestion. Thus, in the context of continuing the efforts made so far, could we not rely, a little more so, on the historical relations we have with certain countries, as is the case with Morocco, the Congo and Burundi? Can we not remind them of the many partnerships that have been implemented and that still exist, whether at parliamentary level, at the level of defence, foreign affairs, justice and the interior, in order, from these partnerships, to accompany the steps taken with regard to the repatriation of our nationals? This can be done in the European context, but also with countries in North Africa – especially Morocco. For example, has the dispatch of military equipment and experts been used to accompany the processes on the ground and thus try to help these countries meet the challenges they face? This seems to me to be a complementary approach, which would allow the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs to unblock the situation. If he wishes, we can help him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u27	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is very good to see you again. I hope you're all right and your families are doing well, too. Mr Minister, for several weeks now you have shown good will and I wanted to point it out and remind you in a fair-play way. I have a question to ask you about the situation in Hungary, which is of great concern to me. This is not the first time that I have asked you, or your predecessor, about the question of respect for human rights, human rights, within the Member States of the European Union and the Council of Europe. In these two international forums, Hungary is regularly pointed out and the situation should not improve, as we are currently seeing. Indeed, at the request of Viktor Orbán, the Hungarian parliament decided to grant the Prime Minister the powers to legislate on Monday by order, thus without the control of the deputies, in all fields and for an indefinite period. While many Member States, including Belgium, have granted special powers to their governments to deal with the VOCID-19 crisis, the situation in Hungary is challenging. Most of the safeguards of a rule of law are neutralized here and for an indefinite period, which is all the more worrying. The drift is already well present since in the midst of the crisis of the coronavirus, the government of Viktor Orbán intends to take advantage of the state of emergency to limit the rights of transgender people. This decision is unworthy and highly criticized by the Council of Europe. This will of the Orbán government is part of a regulation, a much larger bill on a number of issues not related to coronavirus. We can therefore see clearly the totalitarian drift of the Orbán government since it takes up the state of emergency to legislate at all times in all fields and it attacks a category of the Hungarian population to such an extent that the European Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe has called on the Hungarian parliament not to adopt this law for a question of dignity. Minister, my questions are as follows. How will Belgium monitor human rights developments in Hungary, both at the European Council and at the Council of Europe? More broadly - and I am also taking up a proposal from your predecessor, Mr Reynders - at the level of the European Union, where are we in the process of establishing a periodic review of the rule of law in all countries in the way of the cross-examination of budgetary policies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u28	Madam President, I naturally share many of the concerns about the repatriation of many Belgians from abroad, but I would first like to express my appreciation for the work that has been done. It is clear: everything can be better, especially in times of crisis. But it is only those who do nothing, who can never blame themselves for having made mistakes. I would like to talk about the World Health Organization. In a globalised world, the fight against a pandemic is not a task for individual countries. I think we all know that now. Then we, as humanity, must fight. We must always be modest and not lecture others on how to communicate, even if we can have an opinion on it. We're not all-knowing, so we shouldn't be ignorant either. This is precisely why the World Health Organisation supports and coordinates public health initiatives. Besides, the WHO Director for Europe is a Belgian, Mr Hans Kluge. He holds that high office for five years. Just because the WHO covers a global scope and because it is part of the UN system, the organisation is crucial in the fight against corona. Countries are looking at the WHO for direction. The WTO's opinions are authoritative. I am thinking, among other things, of her advice on the masks that Belgium relies on. Although public health should be something very objective and scientific, the WHO remains a political institution. It is also one of the UN institutions facing financial difficulties. In order to organise many initiatives, it needs to beg Member States to make voluntary contributions. In recent weeks, questions have been raised about its independence from certain countries, especially in view of the fact that the US seems to withdraw, countries such as China could take their chances of exerting their influence more strongly. The question is whether this is the case. It is suggested that the WHO is not sufficiently critical of the official figures coming from China, suggesting that everything has been reported on time. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. How do you currently evaluate the role and added value of the WHO for Belgium? In what way does Belgium support the WHO at the moment? More specifically, what is the financial contribution? Which projects will Belgium participate in or in which areas can Belgium make an additional contribution? How do you view the criticism of the WTO, its operation and the influence of certain large countries in Asia? What measures should or should not be taken to ensure the scientific objective functioning of the WTO, independently of political interests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for all your questions and for the very positive expressions you have had with regard to the agents of the foreign administration, either here in Brussels or posted abroad. I have no doubt that this will affect them because, for several weeks now, they have been facing daily demands, concerns and sometimes frustration and anger from citizens who may not understand why things don't go any faster. I can tell you that the work they do is colossal and I want to thank them once again. I will try to answer as fully as possible the questions that have been asked to me. I begin with the question of the situation of our nationals in Morocco. I think we have to work without saying anything. I have heard from some that we can practice non-said or perhaps some amalgams which, as I said, do not have a place in our approach to the particular situation in Morocco. The first element is that Morocco was the first destination for which we organized repatriations. It's important to know that. We organized seven repatriations with Brussels Airlines from Marrakech and Agadir. Why these two destinations? Because, in the logic adopted and validated for the other situations as well, tourist situations were first targeted. In parallel to these steps, you know that we have also done our utmost to ensure that other destinations are served. This was the case because, as some of you have pointed out, Ryanair flights have been organised from Tangier in particular, whereas on two occasions Morocco had decided to close its airspace and, through negotiation and contacts, we have allowed flights to still be organised for the repatriation of our compatriots. That's a first point I wanted to point out. Since 22 March, Moroccan airspace has been permanently closed and there are therefore no flights to Belgium or Europe in general. Very clearly, we want our binationals to be able to return home. Every effort is made to make this work, except that, for the time being, there is clearly a refusal by the Moroccan State. It's as clear as that! You ask me what steps have been taken, while suggesting that we would consider that, in the end, we are less interested because they would be sub-nationals, etc. Again, this is a trial of intent that I do not accept. The situation is clear. You're talking about eventually organized flights with Canada. I had a contact, again yesterday, with the Moroccan ambassador here in Brussels. I asked him the question clearly and told him that there was a double standard. The Ambassador of Morocco tells me that there are no binationals who took the flight to return to Canada. Things are very clear about that. We'll talk just after the situation of so-called humanitarian flights. Together with my Dutch counterpart, we wrote a letter to make the situation clear. This letter was sent at the end of March to the Moroccan Foreign Minister. Josep Borrell, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs at the European Commission, spoke himself to unblock the situation. That wasn't enough. Permanent contacts are taking place with the Government and in particular with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Morocco. So far, it has also not produced satisfactory results. I note the initiatives suggested in particular by André Flahaut. All initiatives are welcome. We want the situation to get out of hand, but to say that we are not working on it, to say that we are not interested in these matters, when we are aware of the steps taken in good faith, it is difficult to say that we have not taken an interest in the situation. Yes, I very clearly regret this situation of blocking which is the responsibility of the Moroccan authority and we have one thing to do in relation to that. Of course, it is a matter of respecting the sovereignty of the Moroccan State's decision. We can regret it, however, but that is another aspect. I would prefer, as all of our services and as you have expressed through your questions, that the situation be unlocked. We have a great deal of collaboration with the Moroccan State to highlight the excellent relations that unite us and the difficulty that some people have in accepting a situation that seems a little unbalanced compared to other countries. We have two similar situations with Burundi and Morocco. In relation to the cases referred to by Mr Boukili on the humanitarian situation of each other, we have pushed the reasoning very far. All these cases, we take them very precisely into account and the question has been asked. When you have a so-called humanitarian case, when you have a sick person, a person who considers that they cannot be treated properly in relation to their pathology, the procedure is very simple: the first contact is a local doctor; the second contact is a local hospital. From that point on, if the Moroccan authority finds that, indeed, the care cannot be properly rendered in the light of the person's pathology, it is a humanitarian flight and in this case, it could be arranged for repatriations linked to humanitarian flights. Here too, Morocco is very specific. Of course, it applies international conventions, but it also applies the first part of this convention, which says that it is up to it to decide on the freedom to go and come from its nationals when they are on Moroccan territory. We have another equally clear point of view which is to say that people who have their usual place of life in Belgium, whether they are binationals or not, must be able to return to Belgian territory. I think to say something else is to feed fantasies. I don't think there's any point in doing this. Indeed, people are living in difficult situations in Morocco. The truth may allow them, I'm not saying to accept the situation, but in any case to better understand it. I would not want those people who live with us, who are binationals, to think that their state, Belgium, has treated them differently, unbalanced with regard to the rest. That's not true. The evidence I put forward attests to this. I am obviously asking for the greatest help, the greatest support for our views to be heard at some point in time. For the time being, that is not the case. I'm sorry. We're going to keep working. Some mechanisms may be heard. One can think, for example, of the Inter-Parliamentary Group Belgium-Morocco, with expressions to be given in order to ensure that the situation can be unlocked. It's really our wish, our will. We are working on it and will continue to do so. That is the part concerning Morocco. I think that when I told you that, I told you everything I thought was necessary to communicate with you. Many questions related to my appreciation of European cooperation have been asked, in particular by Messrs. Ben Achour and De Maegd and Mrs Jadin. Solidarity between States has worked well in the particular case of repatriations. It may have been a little slow to start, but the figures show that it is now running at full speed. The exchange mechanism works and our missions help Belgians embark on repatriation flights set up by the States of the European Union. For example, more than a thousand compatriots were able to board flights chartered by France, Luxembourg, Poland and the Czech Republic, among others. A number of practical lessons need to be learned from this crisis in order to achieve a more effective and fluid mechanism, as I was able to explain in the plenary of the House in response to a question from Mr.Dallemagne. Belgium organized 27 flights. In the coming days, a flight is planned to South Africa. We have received a lot of requests. We had to keep our nationals waiting, because it was not easy to organize this type of flight and to allow as many of them to reach the take-off site. The choice of destinations served in our repatriation operations is motivated by the number of nationals blocked on the spot, but also by the lack of alternatives, most often due to the closure of airspace to commercial flights. As far as the financial aspect of these repatriations is concerned, we must be very clear. The State pays half of the total cost of each operation. The other half is divided by the total number of seats available. Each repatriated citizen then signs a debt recognition by which he undertakes to repay the amount thus calculated. Our compatriots need to know that. I am committed to going all the way to dealing with each situation, with countries that, admittedly, are sometimes more complex than others. That is the state of cooperation, which I wanted to report to you, at European level. I have also been asked questions about the World Health Organization. As you know, WHO plays a crucial role in the fight against VOCID-19. Of course, Belgium is following its actions closely. To this end, the FPS Foreign Affairs is working closely with the FPS Public Health. Our country allocates around €7.7 million each year to the WHO, of which €5.4 million is allocated to its general budget. WHO is free to use the amounts allocated from the general budget, including for combating the spread of the virus. In order to facilitate the planning process and to identify the response capacity as best as possible, the WHO has provisionally classified the countries on the basis of their operational capacity and factors such as preparedness, risk of imported cases, number of imported cases, local distribution and spread within the community. Belgium was classified by the WHO under category 5, which is the highest category. This makes Belgium one of the countries best prepared to tackle the epidemic. At this stage, the WHO will reserve its support to less well prepared countries. However, the organisation has indicated that it will provide assistance and support to Belgium if difficulties arise in implementing the measures recommended by the WHO. Within WHO, Belgium pays particular attention to strengthening health systems and universal health. Our country's funding of WHO indirectly helps the most vulnerable countries in the fight against the spread of the virus. Belgium is also contributing to the global response to coronavirus through its participation in the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF), which is a flexible fund managed by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, with the aim of providing a rapid and coordinated response to urgent humanitarian needs around the world. This year, as in 2019, the Belgian contribution to the FCIU amounts to 17 million euros. Like Mrs Liekens, I see criticism of the WTO and China on various media regarding their initial approach to the crisis. However, Belgium considers that the WHO is doing a good job overall and considers it particularly important to support the organisation in the middle of this pandemic. Like any UN institution, the WHO works closely with the Member States. The organisation operates on a scientific basis and calls on the recommendations of bodies made up of specialists from all over the world. They deserve our support and our trust. Our country is asking for an in-depth evaluation of the international approach of COOVID-19, but thinks it is too early to do so. Many questions have been asked about the number of Belgians stranded abroad. Several thousand compatriots were recently prevented from travelling to Belgium. It should be noted that many foreign nationals are also dominated. It is advisable that these people remain in their own environment, in accordance with the advice of the World Health Organisation. The online Travellers Online tool is used in this crisis to keep an overview of the number of tourists and people temporarily staying abroad who do not have their place of residence in the country concerned. According to the number of registrations on Travellers Online, around 27,000 Belgians were abroad in mid-March. I would like to clarify immediately that Travellers Online is one of the databases that we use and it is therefore important to check the various figures. Without going into too much detail, many countrymen do not automatically unsubscribe from the online platform on their return to Belgium. It is therefore necessary to make a certain number of adjustments to this data. Meanwhile, the counter has fallen below 20,000 compatriots. In a more precise estimate, we can assume that about 5,000 people are still hoping for a quick return to Belgium. In Spain, the Canary Islands, Morocco and Egypt in particular, we saw many stranded compatriots. To all these countries, my services have already set up repatriation flights for tourists and for those who need urgent medical attention. Questions were also asked about the number of Belgians returning home and how that happened. Belgium started repatriation flights on 18 March 2020. They are intended for Belgians travelling abroad for short-term tourist, professional, academic or training purposes. Non-Belgian beneficiaries who are Belgian family members and people with a residence permit in Belgium are also eligible. Finally, we have also opened up some of our charter flights to European Union nationals. The choice of destinations from which our repatriation operations take place is justified by the number of nationals detained on the spot, but also by the absence of alternatives, usually due to the closure of airspace for commercial flights. To date, Belgium has operated 27 flights. There were seven flights from Morocco, four from Marrakech and three from Agadir, which are the main tourist areas of that country. There are also two flights from Tunisia, six flights from Tenerife and two flights from Las Palmas in the Canary Islands, two flights from Senegal, one flight from Gambia, one flight from Egypt and one flight from Algeria, two flights from the DRC, one flight from Mali, one flight from Rwanda and Burundi, although there is a problem with Burundi, and one flight from Peru. Flights are scheduled in the coming days, including from South Africa and Colombia. In total, as I indicated, more than 5,000 Belgians were repatriated. That's the biggest repatriation operation ever organized by the State Department. In addition to its own Belgian flights, a thousand Belgians were able to take part in a flight organised by an EU Member State, offering a place to other European countries via the European coordination mechanism, or on a flight chartered by a Member State, on which Belgium was able to obtain a place on the basis of bilateral contacts. More than 40 flights left with Belgians on board, organized by France, the Netherlands, Germany and Switzerland. On arrival in another European state, Foreign Affairs also arranges bus transport to Belgium where necessary. Finally, there are still Belgians returning via the few remaining scheduled flights. Our embassies provide worldwide communication with the stranded Belgians. When our fellow countrymen want to reserve their own flight, they are of course also fully responsible for the financial consequences. The FPS Foreign Office communicates with these citizens in different ways in order to reach them as much as possible and to keep the threshold to come to us as low as possible. There is a call centre where people can always contact with telephone questions. This call centre is also available via social media, via Facebook. Urgent messages can be delivered via Enterprise Messaging and finally there is also the online contact form. Through all these channels, we always try to provide a response tailored to the citizen. The embassies also communicate with the Belgian community in their jurisdictions according to the nature of the travellers in these different ways. Finally, the website of the Ministry with more than 180 travel advice per country remains a valuable source of communication and information for our compatriots. In this way we try to use the services to assist our stranded compatriots abroad. Since 19 March, our employees work 24 hours on 24 and 7 days on 7 days in the crisis center. In total, 302 employees were distributed among different teams in charge of managing the telephone calls, receiving the handling of messages via social media such as Facebook, handling received e-mails, coordinating the information, monitoring the information provided by our diplomatic networks regarding the closure of airspace and borders, adapting the travel advice to each country, including setting a travel ban abroad since 18 March until mid-April and monitoring the security situation on a global scale. The call centre's lines were sometimes overloaded at the start of this crisis, but with a rapid doubling of its number, this problem was resolved very quickly. Now the situation in Belgium and the situation after return. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I can tell you that the Foreign Office has no knowledge of extra foreigners in Zaventem or elsewhere. Several embassies in Brussels do contact my services in order to be able to repatriate their subjects. In reply to Mrs Farih's question, I can say that information leaflets are being distributed at the airport to incoming travellers, who then have to go into self-quarantine for 14 days. However, that question does not fall within my competence. As far as consular assistance is concerned, on the basis of the Consular Code, citizens must first seek a solution on their own, if necessary by soliciting their entourage. For financial matters, they can be assisted by consulates, which, in the present situation, suggest, for example, the possibility of flights. As the global trend is evolving towards airspace closure, returning to Belgium in the coming weeks will become more difficult and the demand of Belgians abroad to renew their visas or residence permits will increase. The Belgians initially make their own démarches to the local government. On an adapted basis depending on the local condition, our embassies can aggregate such requests, possibly even at EU level. The consular assistance or the Foreign Office has been strengthened and will be responsible for the individual follow-up of consular files in the coming weeks, as always. What can we do to help Niger's journalist Kaka Touda? Ms Rohonyi, as you know, the independent journalist from Niger was released on 26 March 2020. He was sentenced by the Niamey High Court to three months' suspended imprisonment for "disclosure of data to disrupt public order". His lawyer appealed. Belgium is following the development of this case in European format via its post in Niamey. However, I would like to draw your attention to the very strong pressure placed on the latter in order to manage the crisis of the VOCID-19 and its many implications and to assist our compatriots, including many cooperation and military personnel, in extraordinary conditions. The European Union delegation in Niamey was informed of Mr Touda's arrest and release. In view of his short period of detention at Niamey Civil Prison, neither the delegation nor any other Member State has taken any steps. In response to the crisis of the VOCID-19 and in line with the Niger government's national response plan, Belgium is making specific efforts to reallocate the budget and to accelerate planned actions. These efforts include crisis communication support and support for epidemiological surveillance. Mr. Cogolati asked me a question about the spread of coronavirus in Syrian camps. The United Nations Committee against Torture urged the French State to provide women and children with any administrative authorization for identity and travel necessary for their repatriation and to provide them with access to medical care. Such an opinion has been delivered with regard to Belgium and, as I have already mentioned on several occasions, the Belgian authorities are in contact with Kurdish officials of the autonomous administration of North and East Syria, which exercises de facto control over the camps, in order to verify the possibility of organising the repatriation of the Belgian children currently in the camps. We are continuing our efforts in this direction. Our services are in regular contact with some NGOs, such as ICRC, which continue to be regularly informed about the health situation in the camps. No cases of VOCID-19 have yet been identified. The borders with Iraq have also been closed in order to slow down the spread of the virus to Syria. It is our responsibility that both the authorities of the Syrian regime and the Syrian democratic forces in the north-east of Syria are preparing for the potential arrival of the virus. Mrs Van Hoof, specifically with regard to our solidarity with Italy and Spain, it is important to place this solidarity in a European framework. In this way, we are stronger and, together with the European Union, we can better divide and divide national efforts. Mr De Vriendt, you have asked me three questions. Given the scale of the crisis, Belgium can hardly cope alone, and therefore it is in line with the efforts to coordinate aid in the various international fora in New York, Geneva and Brussels, among others, to help the victims. We actively participate in the priority meetings and prepare our contribution to the recent UN calls for the Global Humanitarian Response Plan and the ICRC. We coordinate the response with the EU Member States and all parts of the efforts through DG ECHO. Most of the instruments and channels are already available. It is the task of the humanitarian coordinators, who are the local coordinators, to optimise the response to the emergency, including by providing more support to local actors, for example via country based (...). With confidence in the effectiveness of multilateralism, Belgium supports these resources. We also respond to requests from our NGO partners by enabling them to reorient and adapt certain parts of the current programmes. I share your concern and the analysis of the health situation in the Gaza Strip. The health sector in Gaza is very vulnerable. There is a chronic shortage of essential medicinal products and the indicators are very worrying. All parties concerned are aware that an epidemic in Gaza cannot be adequately combated. There is a great need for medical equipment and materials, as well as a shortage of medical personnel. In 2019, more than 100 doctors left the Gaza Strip. As far as our commitments in Gaza are concerned, Belgium has for many years supported the humanitarian fund for the occupied Palestinian territories, which enables organisations to access funding in response to changed circumstances. In this context, EUR 1 million has already been allocated to address the health risks associated with COOVID-19. There are internal discussions going on to increase that amount. The Belgian contribution to that fund was 13.3 million euros for the period 2015-2019. We also contribute to the local response through our financial contributions to UNRWA and the ICRC. With regard to UNRWA, I would like to stress that despite the current situation and the resulting budgetary constraints, Belgium, unlike other partner organisations, has already paid its voluntary contribution to UNWRA's overall resources of EUR 6.25 million for 2020. Belgium has consistently and repeatedly called for the lifting of the blockade and free humanitarian access to the Gaza Strip, in accordance with international humanitarian law. This position, in line with the European Union's position, is also defended by Belgium in the UN Security Council. The United Nations and the European Union, including Belgium, are in talks with the various actors, including Israel, in order to facilitate access to Gaza for material and personnel in the context of the current health crisis. At the last Security Council meeting on 30 March, Belgium expressed its concern about the consequences of COOVID-19 in the Gaza Strip. Belgium stresses that access to humanitarian aid remains crucial, that the measures taken to facilitate the entry of essential goods and equipment into Gaza and the access and movement of medical personnel should continue and that efforts should be stepped up in this respect. Belgium signed the joint declaration by the three groups of friends, GoF CAAC, GoF WPS and GoF POC, to support the Secretary-General's call for a global ceasefire in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic and to draw attention to the most vulnerable groups, namely the elderly, children and citizens. Belgium has jointly endorsed 52 other Member States. The statement was officially delivered to the Secretary-General, the Chairman of the General Assembly and the Chairman of the Security Council. Belgium will, if possible, also express its support for the call in the Security Council. Mr Boukili, Mr Moutquin, you also have questions about the situation in the Gaza Strip. I replied in full, but in Dutch. I suppose you don't have a problem with this, either because you understand Dutch or because you have had access to simultaneous translation. Several questions were asked by Ms Jadin about the impact of coronavirus on international issues. Mr Lacroix asked questions about the situation in Europe and, in particular, Hungary. The question of Hungary falls within the competence of my colleague from European Affairs, Mr Koen Geens. However, know that I share your concerns. This dossier is closely monitored, particularly at Council of Europe level, to ensure that measures taken with human rights implications are put on the agenda and at the first level. Mrs Jadin, as regards Greece and refugees, I would ask you to address Mrs De Block, who is responsible for this matter. The consequences of the VOCID-19 pandemic in Syria are, of course, mainly humanitarian. The already severely affected population will find it difficult to cope with an additional crisis. Moreover, after more than nine years of war, Syria's infrastructure is totally inadequate to deal with a new humanitarian crisis. I also support the appeal of the United Nations Special Envoy, Mr Pedersen, for a national ceasefire in Syria in order to best deal with the crisis in VOCID-19. In addition to addressing the humanitarian impact, the international community must continue to work towards a political solution to the conflict. Most of the questions that have been asked about the financial support of the European Union deserve to be addressed to my colleagues, Ministers Geens and De Croo. However, I can tell you that the Commission has submitted to the budgetary authority a second proposal for an amending budget for 2020 in order to reactivate the emergency aid instrument and strengthen the European Civil Protection Mechanism. The Commission proposes to allocate 2.7 billion in commitment appropriations and 1.38 billion in payment appropriations to the emergency aid instrument reactivated for a period of two years. The EUSR will be used to support Member States in the purchase of medical equipment and to facilitate the repatriation of European nationals. It should be reinforced by EUR 300 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 150 million in payment appropriations. Mr De Maegd, you are already inviting us to learn the first lessons from this crisis management. The Department of Foreign Affairs will study carefully – obviously outside the immediate context – the decisions taken and their effects, in order to improve the services we can offer to citizens. The aspects that could be improved are, of course, kept up to date. The data will be collected and will be part of a general evaluation exercise in the coming months. To be very precise about the approach taken by my services, a person has been assigned – as part of his work within the firm – to closely monitor all the actions they are undertaking in terms of crisis management. Indeed, after a certain period of time, collective memory must be sought, which always presents a risk. I would also like to add two points, which are not specifically included in the questions. At the initiative of Josep Borrell, we were able to meet two Councils of Foreign Ministers. The first was on NATO, the second was on managing the crisis of VOCID-19. Both meetings were informal. Of course, each country was able to recall its solidarity and readiness to assist the other Member States of the European Union and to strengthen the mechanisms of collaboration where there was a failure or insufficiency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answers. Well, now it's up to the reps. I would ask you to use the raise hands system for this and to limit the reply to one minute. The reason for this is also because we need to clear this Chamber for the Health Commission which is to be held at 1.30 p.m. The room needs to be disinfected first. It will take sufficient time to do so. So I'm asking you to be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u31	Minister, I do not think you have answered the questions about China. My question was about the fact that whistleblowers are being treated hard. Do you have an answer or are you going to answer my question in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u32	In the end, we'll see if the Minister can give us another reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u33	Minister, I would also like to thank your services for their efforts to repatriate our compatriots. There is no doubt about the workload and willingness of Foreign Affairs to find a solution, yet several stranded travellers feel abandoned because they do not know when to return home. They mostly want clarity. You will receive all kinds of questions from your services, questions about repatriation, about the cancellation of airline tickets, about finding accommodations, even about rental cars and questions about repatriation without a certificate for non-essential movements. I understand that not every question to your services can be answered positively. However, it cannot be the intention, as in some cases, to send people from the locker to the wall, because that brings unnecessary extra stress to the victims. With regard to the possibility of repatriation, you refer in your reply to the absence of alternatives and the problem of airspace closure by certain countries. At least one alternative is the offer of Brussels Airlines, for example, as I mentioned in my question, because SN Brussels Airlines claims today that there are aircraft available for repatriation flights and the transport of humanitarian goods, so that is one of the possibilities for recovering stranded passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u34	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I want to thank very sincerely and especially the services that are doing an absolutely amazing job right now. As far as binationals are concerned, I have heard you talk about feeding certain fantasies, ill-placed community feelings. The truth is that our right, the Consular Code in Article 79, withdraws all consular assistance from a Belgian, since that person also has the nationality of the State in which he is located. This is the case for Belgian Moroccans today in Morocco, and that is what Belgian law says. That's the truth. It is important to assume this responsibility in Parliament. I believe that this law is badly done and discriminatory against a whole section of our population and I believe that this law needs to be reviewed. Moreover, the League of Human Rights has already brought an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court to annul this law. On the ground and in the news, I note that Spain, France and Canada have managed to repatriate urgently, including binationals, to their country. Therefore, Mr Minister, today I solemnly ask you to put all the necessary pressure on the Moroccan Government, if necessary in partnership with our European neighbours, in order to be able to return urgently, in particular the most severe cases, the most fragile people and humanitarian cases. I am sure that the Moroccan Government will not find it any problem for humanitarian cases to be repatriated to Belgium as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I should like to thank you for your answer, if only I had not received any answers to the questions I asked. I deeply regret that. I will retable the questions I have asked in a regular committee to see them dealt with there. I would like to reply briefly. Reality is what it is right now. We always see the same pattern of denial in the Chinese government. Also with the SARS epidemic in 2002, we noticed that the Chinese government tried to keep the news quiet for as long as possible so that the virus could spread unhindered beyond its borders. Two months later, thousands of people were infected. So we are now seeing how the Chinese government has dealt with the whole situation from the outset. We also see a repetitive pattern of denial that keeps returning. Mr Foreign Minister, we, and you specifically, must therefore be extremely thoughtful and remain in touch with the country, remain consistently alert and consider the extent to which the Chinese responsibility in this matter is and was. That is not a plea for direct sanctions, but rather for you, in your capacity as Minister, to raise the issue through all possible channels and also to learn the lesson that we do not want to be dependent on such a regime, such as the current Chinese government, in times of crisis, such as the current situation. This applies not only to the capacity to produce large quantities of essential medicines or medical equipment in the short term, but also to consider in the longer term a globalisation that has led many strategically important sectors to move towards a country that is not always very affectionate to us. I will therefore repeat my questions to you at the beginning of this sitting. Please take the responsibility of the Chinese regime seriously. Deal with that, too. Take part in consultations wherever possible and learn the necessary lessons about our future dealings with that country in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u36	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply and I would also like to thank the Foreign Ministers in general for the efforts already made to get stranded travellers back to Belgium. However, I would like to make a few comments on the points you raised. I hear from you that flights are mainly organised from Africa. I think a lot of countrymen have been stranded in other continents as well. I understand that a criterion must be laid down somewhere. One of the things you put forward was the fact that there are or are not alternatives. These alternatives are often very expensive. There are people who are stranded in New Zealand, for example. There an alternative flight costs 5,000 euros per person. You can understand that it is not always possible for those people to get home. There is indeed a general telephone number available for Foreign Affairs, but I think that perhaps we should also call for more cooperation at European level, so that we can look together at how countrymen can be repatriated and bundled flights. Finally, as far as the consulates are concerned, you say that it is up to the people themselves to go to the local authorities. However, the reports that reach us show that the problems often arise there, namely that the consulates are not always accessible or available. Perhaps, as Foreign Minister, you could advise the consulates on the ground to communicate very clearly to the country's fellow countrymen about the possibilities for returning to Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u37	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers. However, I would like to return to the sense of abandonment of nationals. We never claimed that you had abandoned our nationals. I started my speech by saying that we thank the work done by your services. What we have is a sense of abandonment, certainly not because of the number of actions undertaken in your leadership or in the field of diplomacy, but surely because of the lack of information from these nationals and the fact that other countries have managed to find solutions contrary to us. I wanted to clarify this point. You also mentioned flights that would have been organized or that would be being organized for people in need of medical attention. I would have liked to have more details on that. With regard to the situation in Hungary, I understand that the minister responsible is Minister Geens and that there would be a willingness to put this item on the agenda, but I still remain hungry. Indeed, two prominent members of your party hold key positions to unblock the situation. On the one hand, there is Mr Reynders at the European Commission. A specific mandate of the Commissioner responsible for ensuring respect for the rule of law in different Member States of the European Union has been created precisely to ensure respect for fundamental freedoms in each of the Member States of the European Union. This verification must be possible, especially in times of crisis, to ensure that certain leaders do not take advantage of it to impede fundamental rights and freedoms and to ensure that the measures taken by the different governments of the European Union are proportionate and non-liberticidal. On the other hand, there is Mr Michel in the Council of the European Union. Today, if the Article 7 procedure of the Treaty on European Union is blocked, it is in particular because it is at the level of the European Council that this clear risk of serious breach by a Member State of the values referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty must be recognised. Two representatives of your party are at levels where things need to be unlocked today. I hope you can at least convey this message to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I too would like to be perfectly clear, because words are important. The conjugated forms of the verbs I use are also important. We never said that the binationals trapped in Morocco were abandoned. I just said that in the absence of a solution, there was a growing risk of a sense of abandonment. I would like to say to Mr. De Maegd, with all the sympathy I have for him, that this situation, it is a fact, is experienced as an injury to the very idea of citizenship. You can't tell someone who's in pain, "You're not allowed to get hurt." The conclusion I draw from this morning is the following. We Socialists, and you, Mr De Maegd, like all the colleagues, and especially you, Mr Minister, want nothing but a solution, which is found as quickly as possible. That is really what I would like to conclude with. I would like to add a question which I did not ask, but which I should have asked, because it is very important. From a health point of view, what will be done with these people who will be repatriated? Will they all be detected at airports? This is a major issue in the fight against the pandemic. Repatriating people is good, making sure they are not carrying the virus, what would amplify the pandemic in us is even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u39	Madam President, Minister, I thank you for your responses to your proactive action, which, in my view, does not suffer the slightest ambiguity as to your willingness to make every effort to repatriate all of our citizens. Since Mr. On behalf of my group, I would like to reiterate the situation of the repatriations of Belgians from Morocco. I hear my PS colleague saying that there is a risk that this crisis will fuel a sense of abandonment. Those are his words. I cannot imagine for a moment that this feeling is fed by one or the other political party for political purposes. I also hear that "other countries have succeeded in repatriating binationals", de facto inducing that this would not be the case with Belgium. I recall that the minister recalled that 26 flights were operated, 7 from Marrakesh and Agadir, 19 from Tangier to the north; that more than 1,000 people were repatriated from Morocco by Belgium and that this country was the first to undergo a large-scale operation a few days ago. And then, as I recall, a Belgian, whether binational or not, is a Belgian, in our sense, to the Reform Movement, wherever it is on the planet. A Belgian blocked in Morocco receives as much consideration as a Belgian blocked in another country, no more, no less. I repeat, making it a political or even a communitarian policy would in my view be totally unworthy. I call on all parliamentarians not to cross this red line worthy of the most populist positions. I would also like to invite my colleagues who speak of this sense of abandonment, Mr. Ben Achour, in particular, or who speak of so-called second zone citizens, to go beyond the observation, to act in their turn, for example through the Inter-Parliamentary Union, to put pressure on their parliamentary colleagues from Morocco, Burundi, to try to allow for further repatriations. If I am not mistaken, the President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union of Morocco is a socialist colleague. If I am not mistaken, the President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union of Burundi is a colleague of the Ecolo party. Therefore, in the unprecedented and dramatic circumstances that we are going through, it seems to me essential that political figures on all sides - whatever their position - act at the service of all Belgians and of the common good. So let's go from the point of view to the action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I have two brief points of reply. With regard to Gaza, I hear you say that in our country there is an internal review of whether we can increase the humanitarian effort for the UNRWA plan, i.e. an additional financial contribution. I really want to insist that this happens. The current situation in Gaza is already criminal. If medical equipment and auxiliary equipment at that border is now blocked too, then that is all the worse. Secondly, we have seen that the UN Secretary-General's call for a global ceasefire has not been fully answered. In a number of regions we have seen a break in the fights. In a number of other countries there was good will in the beginning, but still fighting has flared up. I would urge our country, at the highest level, to continue to press for that global ceasefire to be respected. That seems to me to be a very good measure, a very good proposal that can provide relief in these times. We are members of the UN Security Council, so you must put that on the table with the greatest possible force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u41	Minister, I have no doubt that our FPS Foreign Affairs officials are doing their utmost to provide the best possible service, but we have another bell on the situation. I agree with what has been said in terms of citizenship: we must avoid instrumentalizing this situation, with feelings of abandonment. Solutions must therefore be found to respond to the current crisis. The binationals are Belgians and do not consider themselves otherwise, hence their distress. The majority of them did not choose this situation. They were born here, they lived here, their lives and their children are here. There is no ambiguity in their leadership. Ambiguity is in the situation imposed on us. Minister, I will join you when you ensure citizenship for all our citizens, regardless of whether they are binationals or not. I also hope that you will support an amendment to Article 79 of the Consular Code that discriminates against binationals in terms of access to consular assistance. This article says: "Binationals are not entitled to consular assistance when they are in the country of their second nationality". This article needs to be revised because it creates discrimination, as has been reported by the League of Human Rights. I would point out that the aim of these inquiries is not at all to create controversy or to make politics, but to find concrete solutions for our fellow citizens who are stranded abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u42	Madam President, with your approval, I would like to return to the second question that I asked and which has not been answered by the Minister, which I regret. I really hope there's no strategy for that. I would ask the Minister to answer my first question, which was submitted a few weeks ago. No matter how concise his answer may be. The question I tabled yesterday is extremely precarious, I believe. We are receiving signals from Congo and Central Africa that people are being marked, attacked and evacuated there. It seems clear to me that the Minister is at least aware of this. That was my question. I am not asking for a detailed action plan, I am simply asking whether the Minister is aware of the situation, whether there are Belgians involved, whether he has already contacted us, or whether he has taken measures. I hope he will be able to answer that question. Otherwise, I will come back to that tomorrow, on the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u43	Mrs Ponthier, I may have read it a little too soon, but I have the answer here. In general, a number of African countries have seen an increase in xenophobic reactions to Westerners. They are accused of importing the virus. But that certainly does not apply to all countries. This is, moreover, limited to verbal statements, with a few exceptions. On April 1, Kinshasa effectively blocked a bus with employees of a French oil company and pounded with stones. The bus was on its way from the airport to the city center. This was an action by a union that regularly causes unrest. On the video of the event that was later distributed on the social media, the group indicated that this action was being taken because Westerners would bring COVID-19 to Africa. There were no Belgians involved in this particular incident. In Senegal, westerners, including some Belgians, were also crowned with stones. In this case, the perpetrators were children. Our embassy and my services are, of course, following the evolution of the health and safety situation very closely. We'll take the appropriate action when necessary. For example, our embassy in Dakar contacted the Senegalese authorities after the incident, whereby Belgians were pelted with stones by children. As always, the necessary safety regulations are also given to the Belgians via the travel advice. I would like to stress that no evacuation of Belgian nationals is currently being organised in any country. However, my services organise special flights to repatriate our blocked compatriots who were travelling abroad to Belgium. In order to counter a negative perception of the Westerners, it is also extremely important to make it clear to the people of these countries that we are also in solidarity with our partners in the south during this difficult period. I therefore stress the importance of our country's initiatives to support our partner countries in the fight against the consequences of this crisis. I also have an answer for Mrs Samyn and Mrs Ponthier, regarding the fact that China is opening the hunt for citizens who have the corona virus (...) on social media. My services closely monitor the human rights situation in China, including freedom of expression and the protection of human rights defenders. Our country does not hesitate to address these issues in the relevant fora. For example, Belgium intervened during China's universal periodic survey in November 2018. This is a unique mechanism that allows the human rights situation of each UN Member State to be examined on a cyclical basis by all other Member States. Belgium has made the recommendation to take measures to ensure that human rights defenders can exercise their freedom of expression and of peaceful association. In addition, our country has also asked China to respond positively to outstanding questions from the special rapporteurs to visit the country. This includes the special rapporteur on human rights defenders and the special rapporteur on freedom of expression. In multilateral fora, such as the Human Rights Council, Belgium also addresses the situation of human rights defenders in China. For example, during the 41st session of the Human Rights Council in July 2019 Belgium expressed its concern about the aggression against human rights defenders in China. Our country has also called for measures to protect the activity and integrity of people working for human rights and their fellow citizens. Finally, human rights, including freedom of expression and the situation of human rights defenders, is one of the most important pillars in the relationship between the European Union and China. For example, the EU continues to address the situation of human rights defenders during the annual human rights dialogue with China, including with specific reference to individuals targeted by the exercise of their right to freedom of expression. Also in the light of the current coronavirus crisis, our country will closely follow this theme. I will give a very small reply in addition to the comments made on people in health risk in Morocco, because I have not always been well understood. I have discussed this problem with both the Moroccan Foreign Minister and the Moroccan Ambassador in Brussels. The procedure is clear: you must make an appointment with a doctor and in a hospital on site. In the event, as the Moroccan authorities have told me, where it is found that the infrastructure would not be sufficient to respond to a particular pathology, it is obvious that humanitarian repatriations could take place. We have no ambiguity in this regard. Mr. Cogolati, you've come back to the subject. You say, and I can understand, that when a Belgo-Moroccoan in Morocco hears that Canada has been able to repatriate binationals, he feels a sense of abandonment and injustice. Even yesterday, I asked the ambassador in Brussels very clearly and told him that binationals blamed us for this double standard in the eyes of other countries. You cited France and Canada. The Moroccan ambassador's answer is very clear: in his view, they are not binationals. I believe that this information must also be disseminated to prevent a sense of abandonment or injustice from developing. To combat this feeling of injustice or abandonment, I repeat that where a message can be conveyed, we must do so positively and usefully. I think our binationals blocked in Morocco will then say that their state, Belgium, is doing everything to enable them to return home. We will thus avoid the rather unpleasant development of an unequal feeling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic137x.u44	Thank you, Minister, and thank you to all colleagues for your flexibility at this challenging session. I would also like to thank all the services, secretariat, translation, operational and technical services. Everything went well. Take care.
