ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I greet you all. I hope you're all doing well. On the frame of my video is indicated a name that is not mine but that of my future husband. It is in December that we will unite our destinies. I salute Mr Notteghem, who will be our committee secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u2	Minister, we have had a lot of discussions in this House on the fight against social fraud and tax fraud. In the inquisition debate, that even caused a little media moment. I think it's worth putting that right. What exactly is going on? During the debate on the government statement, the Prime Minister said that the fight against tax and social fraud would be worth EUR 1 billion in 2024. The amounts collected in 2021, 2022 and 2023 should not be added. It's amazing how that works. EUR 1 billion should be brought in, while the previous governments were always around 250 to 350 million. Now that would be raised to 1 billion. This in itself was very ambitious, especially when it was known that there was no minister responsible for combating social fraud at the time. I mentioned this in plenary and the Prime Minister replied that this was not really necessary, a minister of social fraud, because every minister will check his area. In the meantime, that opinion has been revised and your ministerial portfolio has become a little thicker and you have become the coordinating minister for the fight against social fraud, on top of your competence for tax fraud, which you already had. That makes you the 1 billion-dollar man in this government, or perhaps even the 2.3 billion-dollar man. This is, of course, the subject of the whole debate. The Prime Minister said that the amounts from 2021 to 2024 should not be added, which is as much as saying that this will be found with structural measures that will continue to work. My first question. What are these structural measures that allow you to raise EUR 1 billion? My second question is when we will get more serious answers. We all know that this will not happen with structural measures and that the Prime Minister has failed to do so. This will be done with one-off measures, combined with a number of structural measures. By the way, the notifications of last Friday's Council of Ministers are also in that direction. There are some structural measures relating to the VAT gap, but also, of course, individual fraud cases. Will you confirm the reading that the EUR 1 billion in 2024 is a fill-up on the basis of temporary measures, one-off measures and structural measures, and that the amounts can be added up, at least in part? Do you confirm that you are indeed the 2.3 billion-dollar man, not the 1 billion-dollar man?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u3	The government has indeed once again made the fight against fraud a priority. You won't be surprised. By reinstating the College's activities in the fight against tax and social fraud and placing the coordination of the fight against fraud within one competence, namely mine, we want to maximise cooperation between the administrations involved in the fight against fraud. The individual ministers remain responsible, but I coordinate everything and take the lead. An action plan will be drawn up from the cooperation between the administrations resulting from this. This action plan alone will not lead to the estimated revenues. We are, of course, aware of that. The estimates of the revenue to which you refer are net receipts, the amounts of which have been committed per year. As the budget table shows, the government is aiming for a structural yield of EUR 1 billion towards the end of this legislature. That's a challenge in justice. This means that the public authorities should put a disproportionate question of funding to other citizens and businesses. In the meantime, the College and the Ministerial Committee have been identified in the two previous Councils of Ministers. The next step is to draw up an action plan which will set out a number of measures. However, it is a little premature to make any further preliminaries. In the short period we have already had, we have made sure that the Ministerial Committee has been established, that the College has been designated and that we have given the mandate to draw up such an action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u4	Your focus on the fight against fraud is right and proper. Your approach in which you bring people together and coordinate services, almost as a first act of policy, is also more than commendable. You will certainly receive all our support in this regard. We would rather find means to combat fraud than introduce new taxes. Unfortunately, the latter will also be part of your package. Put a lot of money into this fight against fraud. You have our support in that. Secondly, it is to your credit that you stand up for the Prime Minister. You put it very nicely: the aim is to achieve a structural yield of EUR 1 billion by 2024. At the same time, you also say in your reply that it is about amounts that will have to be reclaimed every year. Every year the counter goes back to zero and the amounts have to be raised, except for the structural measures, which you will hopefully find. In any case, you have our support, but above all to become the minister of 2.3 billion, and to ensure that the tax burden does not increase, but rather the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the previous point concerned the conclusion of a political debate we had in the European Parliament, but I would like to conclude with a very specific question about a state of affairs. The fight against fraud must be a fundamental point for every government, especially for the government that is now working, and in that respect it is good to know what the starting point is. I therefore have a very simple question about the Special Tax Inspectorate (BBI). How many VTEs are currently working at the BBI? Do you have any forecasts of a possible growth path with regard to the staff prospects for the FBI?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u6	Madam President, Mr Loones, there are currently 577 effective VTEs in the Special Tax Inspectorate. That figure does not take into account the BBI staff temporarily seconded or made available to other services, such as the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Federal Police. The internal staff discussions are currently taking place. In doing so, the measure taken in 2017 for the one-to-one replacement of control functions within the FPS Finance to compensate for future retirements will remain fully applicable. The aim is to continue to strengthen the FBI, to improve its efficiency and to ensure that it remains an agile organisation that is and remains ready for the implementation of its core mission, namely the preventive but certainly also the repressive approach to large-scale tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u7	Minister, I would like to thank you very much for confirming the commitment made by Minister Van Overtveldt to the Swedish Government, who focused on the need for sufficient auditors to be available. I wish you every success in this fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u8	Madam President, Minister, the website of Indicator-Larcier announces the holding of an Internet seminar (webinar) on 10 November 2020, at a price of 226 euros, on the theme "Everything you need to know about the tax control actions announced by the FPS Finances". The purpose of the seminar is described as follows: "In addition to an in-depth comment on the actions announced, the speakers will also explain how these actions are selected, their context, their implementation and how to anticipate them at best." The speakers are tax lawyer Marie-Pierre Donéa (who began her career as an official at the FPS Finances) and Nicolas Honhon, who was presented as a general adviser to the FPS Finances and Tax Expert seconded to the Belgian Embassy in the United Kingdom. So he's still a FPS Finance official. I find it shocking that a FPS Finance official informs some business leaders and tax advisors about how the tax system designs and organizes its controls. Minister, do you find it normal for a FPS Finance official to give a seminar on how the FPS Finances is organizing its tax controls? Has Mr Honhon obtained specific authorization from the FPS Finances to give this seminar? Does not such a seminar given by a FPS Finance official potentially violate professional secrecy by revealing the internal aspects of fiscal control? By accepting – implicitly or explicitly – that one of its officials give such a seminar, does the FPS Finances not organise discrimination between taxpayers who take part in the seminar, who is paying, and those who do not take part in it? How many officials currently serving at FPS Finance provide or have provided business training to the business community?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u9	Madam Chair, Mr.Van Hees, in accordance with the provisions of the ethical framework, the grievor in question applied for authorization for prior cumulation of participation, which was accepted by his hierarchy. With regard to a potential breach of professional secrecy, this agent is bound to respect the information published by the FPS Finance and therefore cannot disclose any information concerning the organisation of the selection of the files to be checked or the methodology of the controls carried out by the tax administration. Rather than harming the administration, the interventions of highly qualified administrative technicians allow the administrative partners to better understand the legal provisions and the interpretation of them by the General Administration of Taxation. This type of intervention contributes to the creation of a climate of trust between the FPS Finance and citizens and businesses. In the medium term, a trust relationship between stakeholders generates better tax consent as well as a lower administrative burden for the Finance FPS. Over the past four years, a total of sixty-six civil servants who are still active in the FPS Finances have obtained a conditional cumulation permit to provide training or to participate in seminars organised by the business world. Nevertheless, in the light of several incidents in recent years in this regard, I would ask my administration to be more firm in examining the ethical rule and making proposals in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u10	Minister, I have not heard the number of cumulations you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u11	Sixty-six.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u12	This is quite a large number if it is the same tasks as those discussed here. Unlike you, I find it shocking. Obviously, you find it to better organize the consent of the tax, to have a climate of trust between the citizens and the FPS Finances. So, if I understand you correctly, Minister, in order for a citizen to have confidence in the FPS Finances, he must pay 226 euros and register for such a seminar. Those who do not pay do not have a relationship of trust with FPS Finance. I think that this reasoning is a little limited. I believe, on the contrary, that this creates strong discrimination. However, you have not responded to this aspect of the discrimination that exists between the vast majority of taxpayers who do not have access to this type of information and a handful of professionals who have the means to pay 226 euros and get what I call "privileged information" because there is obviously a dialogue with a specialist in the matter, who is a member of the FPS Finance and who has all kinds of information. You tell us that he is bound by secrecy, but we know that in this kind of seminar a lot of things are said. I find that this method of operation does not guarantee a public service which ensures that there is no discrimination between citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of a basic rule that we are not yet strictly applying, because the composition of the committee is new, as is the composition of the government, and that we must therefore allow everyone to take their marks. I do not have a chronometer next to me, but I would ask you to try to respect, as far as possible, a proper and decent speaking time, which corresponds to the Rules of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u14	That's what I think I did, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u15	Yes, I think everyone is doing their best, but I still remind you of the rule so that we can be even more attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u16	Madam President, Minister, Europe's Growth and Stability Pact is an important instrument for our budgetary framework. I had the honour to participate on behalf of the Chamber in the recent Interparliamentary Conference on Stability, Economic Coordination and Governance in the European Union, in the presence, among others, of the European Commissioners Dombrovskis and Gentiloni. Among other things, the general exit clause in the Growth and Stability Pact was discussed. Indeed, the European Commission has announced that the escape clause will remain activated in 2021, and I do not think there is any discussion about this anymore. However, within the Eurogroup there is a discussion about the duration of the escape clause and the form under which it may or may not remain activated. The year 2022 would include discussion. This is not just about the escape clause in relation to the 3 % budget standard. Other parameters, such as the debt standard and whether or not the way in which investments are made, are also mentioned. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, since this is also important for our budgetary trajectory, in which you are an important actor, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you confirm the information we have received from the Commissioners? I suppose so. What is the latest state of play on this matter? What attitude does our country take in the discussions in the Eurogroup and in the preparation of the discussion within the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u17	Madam President, Minister, I would like to thank Mr Bertels for his good introduction, which I will not repeat. I have questions in the same sentence and I want to supplement them. We pay in the euro area with a single currency, the euro. This means that we should have a number of common agreements, otherwise the currency will become unstable. These agreements include a stable financial system, fair competition and ensuring that budget deficits remain under control and public debt does not increase too high. Minister, I know that your party has already submitted texts in the past, including legislative proposals, to introduce the golden rule, which puts some sort of debt brake in the Constitution. That indicates that we are all concerned about the figures, quite rightly. As Mr Bertels said, we are in a special situation at the same time because of the corona pandemic. There is a whole series of discussions going on, including at European level. Someday we'll have to go back to the new normal. I say, above all, 'the new normal', because we all know that the rules will change in a certain way. My questions go in the same direction. What position will you defend at European level? I would like to be more specific on two points. It could also be on the table for some Member States to make a separate debt path. One Member State should then be allowed to make more debts than another. Do you have any specific information on that? What are you doing with the proposal that countries that make an extra effort in the budget and ensure that their accounts are more in order will be rewarded through a certain system? Would you also see bread in that proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u18	Madam President, Mr Bertels, Mr Loones, thank you for the important questions. The European Commission, together with all Member States, is of course of the opinion that it is important that the general escape clause remains activated, including in 2021. Deactivating that general escape clause too soon would have a very negative impact on our economic growth and on our jobs. Moreover, it would be difficult, on the basis of very uncertain economic prospects, to impose corrective budgetary measures through the pandemic. Within this discussion, which is taking place in the Eurogroup, we are very constructive. We believe that once the Belgian economy and enlargement have sufficiently restored the economy of all the European Member States, the general escape clause will no longer be necessary. In the meantime, Member States will be given the necessary space to make the necessary public investments and to continue to support the hard-hit economic sectors. In the light of a re-evaluation of the normal situation or of the new normal situation, Belgium has been in favour of re-evaluation of the rules of the current Stability and Growth Pact for a long time. The investment gap, especially in public investment, may need to adjust the way productive public investment is taken into account, so that it can also be encouraged in a structural way. The debate on the evaluation of the so-called Six and Two Pack was, of course, suspended by the COOVID-19 pandemic. I am in favour of a timely resumption of this discussion. It would indeed be appropriate for the possible amendment of the rules to be made before we re-activate the general escape clause. All Member States will, of course, be faced with an unprecedented increase in their debt levels as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis. The rules in the Stability and Growth Pact provide for rules to determine the route of deleveraging. Among other things, it will be necessary to examine whether the debt rule, which amounts to a debt reduction of one in twenty, i.e. the level of current debt and the 60% standard, will still be feasible in the current circumstances. In this context, the proposal of the European Budget Committee may be interesting. The debate on this will certainly have to take place. It is important that Member States ensure sustainable, medium- and long-term public finances and that a path to sustainable debt levels remains necessary. Today, taxation is only a European competence to the extent that it fits in with the unification of the internal market. Several countries really stick to their sovereignty when dealing with the EU's taxation dossiers. In addition, the decision-making process is based on unanimity for the adoption of fiscal measures. The first steps have already been taken with the qualified majority voting dossier, in order to move towards a smooth decision-making process between Member States in the area of taxation. The possibility of more dynamic decision-making should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The same applies to more fiscal competence for the EU. In the context of fiscal harmonisation, Belgium is open to debate on this subject, but given the diversity of the European fiscal landscape, this dossier needs to be examined on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The main thing I remember, which we in Parliament are also encouraging, is that you say that you want to engage in an open and constructive debate on the various parameters and aspects of the Stability and Growth Pact, where it is important for our country to be able to take the necessary re-launch measures. We must be able to invest efficiently, punctually and sustainably in our economy and our people. It's important for our relance to bring economic growth back up. In 2021, we are already sure of an escape clause. By 2022, we still need to see if we still need this. You are right to say, and this is also a question from the various sub-areas, that we need to find a new way of making investments in our budget accounts, so that we can make the investments that our country needs federally, regionally and at community level, and that we can write this off in due time and in a correct way with a view to debt building, but also with the possibility of making correct investments. I assume you will continue to do so, Minister. At least you'll have our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u20	Minister, it is one of the most important yards at European level, but certainly also of the current government. It was coming, too. After all, money is not free. Our currency, the euro, is not an acquired security either. We really need a foundation to ensure that monetary union is stable. We had a foundation with the Maastricht Treaty, which contained the principle of the No Bail-out. That principle has already been de facto given away. We have already had the Stability and Growth Pact, the Six Pack and Two Pack and everything that has arisen in this area. A whole series of rules have been put in place, which give flexibility to the Member States, piece by piece, which is needed in the current context. A number of interesting and necessary reforms can be made. However, never forget the essence of the agreements, in particular that the foundation for the euro coin remains available. If that foundation collapses, we are far further away from home than all the money we want to spend. There are sensible reforms in the area of investment booking, especially for small Member States such as Belgium. In this respect, we have already made a number of statements. I'd like to finish with one brief point. I saw in a picture that you have become familiar and in contact with the Dutch Finance Minister, Mr Hoekstra. I can only encourage you to continue to look north in the European Union. There is sometimes sensible talk being sold, especially when it comes to monetary and financial challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u21	Minister, one year after the record criminal transaction in the HSBC case, one would have thought that tax evasion would have been curbed. Unfortunately, it must be noted that this is not the case. A new investigation into suspicions of large-scale tax fraud and money laundering was launched by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, this time against Crédit Suisse and some 2,600 Belgian clients of the bank. This reflects the potential new involvement of some financial institutions in fraudulent attempts to evade taxes. My PS group will also come back with a proposal for a law on these financial intermediaries which, in fact, are never sanctioned. It is always the final client targeted but not its intermediaries and, obviously, it continues to be a problem. What is at stake is serious: Credit Suisse would have allowed its customers to hide their bank accounts from the Belgian tax administration through companies established in tax havens. It can also be pointed out that Belgium would not be the only country affected, since surveys have already been opened elsewhere in Europe, particularly in the Netherlands. It should also be noted that several Belgians have already made the effort to declare accounts opened with Crédit Suisse. As a result of these adjustments, the bank had already had to acknowledge that accounts were opened not on behalf of the client, but rather on behalf of front companies. In this context, Minister, could you provide an update on the status of these issues within your FPS? Do we already have an idea of the amounts that could have been evaded and the amounts that could have been enlisted by the FPS? How do the various services of your FPS work together to manage this type of case? Do we already have an idea of the number of cases handled by the FPS Finances and those referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office? What about the necessary collaboration with the Swiss authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u22	Minister, the newspapers De Tijd and L'Écho indicate that at the end of 2019, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office received from the French judicial authorities a list of 2,600 Belgian clients from Crédit Suisse who allegedly did not report to the tax authorities their bank accounts or the revenues collected. Confirm the holding of a similar list by the tax administration? According to our information, it has had this list since January 2020. Do you confirm this date? If not, how long has she had it? Is the list available to the tax administration the list provided to the federal prosecutor's office? If not, where does it come from? If the tax administration cannot have direct access to information from a criminal case investigated in the Netherlands (in this case, that of Crédit Suisse), the Dutch tax authorities may obtain it and transmit it to the Belgian tax authorities. Since the end of 2017, has the Belgian tax administration established contacts with the Dutch tax administration regarding a spontaneous exchange of data on the Credit Suisse file? If so, what are the results of these contacts and any obstacles? If not, what is the reason? Could it be that the FPS Finance Strategic Plan and Administration Contract have not included among their objectives a proactivity in the identification and control of taxpayers with high heritage and revenue potential? According to my information, the bank data for the Crédit Suisse accounts would go back, for the most recent, to the 2014 revenue year. Do you confirm this information? Otherwise, what is the most recent year of income? Are the data available since the beginning of 2020 still usable in relation to the income tax investigation powers of the tax office? If so, on the basis of which IRC 92 articles, for how many files and years of revenue? How many of these files are entrusted to the ISI and the General Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u23	Mr Van Hees, the information that my administration obtained from the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office in this case has been communicated to the Regional Directorates. Analyses and crosses were conducted to identify the most recent and relevant information. These have also been added to the files already opened. If the administration has concrete evidence of fraudulent intent on the part of the taxpayers concerned, the tax investigation periods that began on 1 January 2013 may be extended. Where appropriate, the administration must inform the taxpayer in advance and in writing of the indices that concern the taxpayer. Tax investigations into individual cases are therefore under way, with the Special Tax Inspectorate's powers being exclusively tax-related. In order to strengthen the tax investigation, the various international legal instruments allow the exchange of information with Switzerland since 1 January 2018. Under the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, international administrative cooperation is possible - possibly with limited retroactivity, in cases of criminal conduct. However, on 6 October last the European Court of Justice recalled that there can be no question of a tax administration engaging in phishing. To avoid this, administrative cooperation requires a minimum number of elements, which we do not have in this case. My administration's remedies in these cases are more limited than those in criminal cases. The Public Prosecutor's Office may also use other charges and other remedies to prosecute the organizers and facilitators. Of course, this does not prevent the Special Inspectorate of Taxes from detecting the latter in the context of the tax investigation and from reporting them to the judicial authorities through the una via consultation. As is often the case in fraud cases, budgetary results are reflected in both specific individual revenues and general tax revenues. Thus, the vast majority of these accounts are known, notably since 2018, through automatic CRS exchange between countries. To the extent that taxpayers already report their income, the additional revenue, if any, will be a correction of a reported amount. If the income is not reported, it will be regularized in the head of my administration. As mentioned above, the entire list is analysed with this in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u24	Madam President, we have had a small problem with sound and I have not heard everything from the answer, but I will read it carefully. In any case, we did not get a lot of figures, minister, or even none of the amounts diverted or the amounts that could be enlisted by the CPS. This shows that this is a real problem. This is not a question of introducing a new tax or not. It is simply a tax that has not been paid. They were people who wanted to hide the money they had on their account so as not to pay the tax. So it's just a recovery. It is inscribed black on white in the agreement of this new government. You can count on us, Minister, to continue to move forward on this issue of combating aggressive tax fraud that can no longer be tolerated in our country at this time, especially when we see the large amounts of our state's deficit. I can only encourage you to take this case with you and be very attentive to everything that revolves around the fight against tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u25	Minister, I thank you even though many questions have unfortunately remained unanswered. We learn that we can go back to 2013 in case of fraudulent intent. You answer a little disappointingly on the question of phishing. You say that as soon as there is suspicion of phishing, it is somewhere an alibi not to practice the transmission of information. That's too bad. Here, it is not a phishing, but clearly to have the information on the files of Crédit Suisse. That's the question I asked. If there are any obstacles to the transmission of this data between countries and between tax administrations, unfortunately this is not the way to fight tax fraud, Minister. I therefore hope that we will take further steps in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u26	Madam President, Minister, we were recently informed that, according to the Financial Information Processing Unit (FTIC), the containment period would have been the vehicle for an increase in fraud. Indeed, our financial intelligence unit is putting forward the figure of an increase of 2 to 3 per cent as of 30 June 2020, which corresponds to about 600 cases transmitted to the justice system. This increase is all the more worrying because, during the confinement, the Belgian economy was greatly slowed down and the movements were limited to the strictly necessary. To be more precise, CTIF noted an increase in fraud in the sale of medical equipment and essential goods. It also noted numerous diversions of financial assistance from public authorities to deal with the crisis. Moreover, she is now concerned that the next pandemic-related scam will involve the sale of trafficked vaccines or false vaccines as soon as a true vaccine is available. Minister, do you confirm the above figures? Given the increase in the number of these scams, have any specific measures been taken during confinement? Are other measures already in place to address CTIF's concerns, namely false vaccine scams? Do we already have an idea of the money involved in these scams? In terms of human resources, what resources does the TIFC have to deal with the flow of returns?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u27	Madam President, Mr Bayet, I can indeed confirm that the number of cases transmitted by CTIF has increased from 2% to 3% in relation to serious indications of money laundering from fraud. During confinement, CTIF issued a communication on April 6 and 27, 2020, and August 2 on the consequences of the VOCID-19 crisis, alerting subject entities and the general public to the risks of fraud. Indeed, as of April, CTIF has seen an increase in the number of suspicious reports concerning financial transactions related to scams. While the number of cases transmitted in the area of money laundering from fraud is large, the amounts concerned are generally smaller: for the first half of 2020, the CTIF identified suspicious transactions for a total amount of EUR 37 million. The amount of $37 million should not be confused with the amount lost by the victims of fraud. The Ctif currently has 61 full-time equivalents, including 37 financial analysts processing suspicious reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. You confirm the existence of a real money laundering problem. Even if the sums are smaller, they are, however, 137 million euros. It's not nothing! In this respect, I am somewhat disappointed with your answer as regards the actions to be taken in the future. I will therefore allow myself to come back soon with a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u29	Madam President, Minister, while Amazonia is once again in the throes of flames, a coalition of NGOs and research institutes released a study on the role of banking in tropical deforestation this September. The authors analysed the services provided to more than 300 companies whose activities are detrimental to the forests of South-East Asia, West and Central Africa and Brazil. Globally, $154 billion in loans was granted and $37 billion invested in these companies. It is in Brazil that the observation is the most obvious. Cattle farming, responsible for 80% of deforestation in the Amazon, is the main beneficiary. However, the European banks are not left behind: Rabbobank, Santander and BNP Paribas are thus pointed out. And what about Belgium? The data collected indicate that KBC has provided $2 million for soybean plantations in Brazil and Degroof Petercam $1 million for pulp production. But it is mainly in South-East Asia, and in the palm oil sector, that Belgian finance stands out with a total investment of 119 million dollars, of which 83 for Nokia Bell Pensioenfonds alone, and credit grants for 49 million, of which 39 came from KBC. These figures necessarily question the true willingness of the banking community to adhere to a sound approach to financial investment. Personally, they reinforce my belief in the need to subject this sector to ethical, social and environmental clauses. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Are you aware of this report? What's your analysis? Have you contacted the Belgian institutions mentioned in this report? How can they be deterred from supporting these activities financially? Do you intend to discuss this with your European counterparts? What initiatives can Belgium take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u30	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, the study you mention identifies some European capital flows to activities that can lead to a negative impact on primary forests. The study shows that the involvement of Belgian institutions in these activities is limited. A European approach should therefore be promoted as far as possible, and Belgium's policy was to support all the European Commission's initiatives in this area. At this stage, the aim of the Commission is to provide more transparency in activities financed by capital raised by banks and other financial institutions. With this in mind, the European Plan for Sustainable Finance of 2018 and the European Commission's Green Deal presented at the end of 2019 aim to set up a framework to promote sustainable finance. Three regulations require financial market players, financial advisors, to disclose how their products or advice take environmental, social and good governance aspects into account on the basis of common criteria. Among these regulations, the purpose of the taxonomy is to establish a harmonized framework for economic activity that is considered sustainable, specifically by contributing to one of the six environmental objectives identified by the regulation. The taxonomy also provides for an assessment of the adverse impacts, that is, for one activity contributing to one objective of harming another. An enterprise that would be active in promoting sustainable agriculture for the use of a biological method could not, for example, occult that this activity is carried out in a land resulting from deforestation. The Disclosure Regulation, for its part, provides for the manner in which such information is made public, inter alia, in promotional communications and in periodic reports. An assessment of the implementation of this new regulation will certainly be carried out by the European Commission. It will then be possible to verify the effectiveness of these new measures and to strengthen them if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u31	Minister, thank you for these answers. I hear the framework that exists, I hear the perspectives that are drawn. I simply invite you to show as much proactivity as possible and to demonstrate immediately your deep sense of initiative, of which I have no doubt. I am sure that at European level you will find allies, since, as I remind you or inform you, the Dutch Central Bank recently conducted a study on this issue in partnership with the Dutch Environmental Assessment Agency. The conclusion of this study is that the diversity of the banking world would amount to the annual destruction of 58,000 km2 of pristine natural spaces. This means 1.7 times the size of the Netherlands. Édouard Philippe, the former French Prime Minister, also commissioned a more specific study, as it was to assess the environmental impact of Mercosur. The conclusion, too, is without appeal. It's a missed opportunity. Indeed, the environmental cost is enormous. In my view, there are convergences to be built, with tangible elements like these, with our closest European partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u32	Madam President, Minister, in order to help the Member States cope with the economic consequences of the VOCID-19 crisis and the projected severe budgetary shock, the European Commission has drawn up the Next Generation EU plan for which it plans to borrow 750 billion euros. So far I'm not teaching you anything. The common debt thus created poses once again the problem of the European Union's own resources. More and more voices are being heard and demand progress at this level. On 16 September, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for a binding timetable for the creation of specifically European financing methods, thus avoiding a situation which would ultimately see the Member States repay more than the amount received. The solutions proposed by parliamentarians are multiple and include a tax on plastic waste, a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders or a common consolidated corporate profits tax base. Among all the measures put forward, the European tax on financial transactions is the one whose impact would be the greatest and the most immediate. It could raise more than EUR 50 billion a year, starting in 2024. As CNCD-11.11.11 Secretary General Arnaud Zacharie recently wrote in a carte blanche, this would make it possible to repay the loan of the Next Generation plan, but also to provide resources to finance the Green Deal. Mr Minister, have you taken note of the proposals made by the Members of the European Parliament? What is your assessment of this, particularly with regard to the idea of a European tax on financial transactions? In the current context, what remedies do you prefer to answer the question of the European Union's own revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u33	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for this very interesting question. The various proposals put forward with regard to the contribution to the financing of the Next Generation EU Recovery Plan are carefully monitored by my departments and the services of my fellow ministers who are also competent in this field. The draft European tax on financial transactions has been monitored by Belgium for many years in the enhanced Financial Transaction Tax (FTT) Working Group. As stated in the Government Agreement, Belgium will play a constructive role in achieving this project. The introduction of such a tax as the European Union's own means was mentioned in the FTT enhanced cooperation working group, but this possibility has not yet been developed either legally or technically. It is therefore premature to adopt a position in this regard. The same applies to other proposals. As for the question of EU-specific revenue in the context of the current crisis, it seems preferable a priori to give priority to solutions which will be the subject of consensus as soon as possible. Possible solutions are still under consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u34	Minister, thank you for these answers. Here too, I believe that the context of crisis forces us to move even faster than we have done so far. The stakes are very simple. It's about who will pay the bill for the crisis. Will it be households and businesses? Or will this be done through EU-specific revenue? We could go and get the money where it is, in particular through this tax on financial transactions which would be painless from an economic point of view and which would once again preserve the real economy which will be the engine of recovery when the health crisis is behind us, I hope, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u35	Minister, for the last time today, here is a question about the taxation of digital giants. In the government agreement, we see that it is becoming a priority for our country. Moreover, this is already included in the budget forecasts. It is also noted that the attitude to OECD negotiations on the taxation of multinationals has changed, and that the government will make it a priority. That's good news. On Friday 11 September, just over a month ago, your French counterpart, Bruno Le Maire, said that the adoption of a European digital business tax would soon become indispensable if the international negotiations currently under OECD auspices did not succeed. Furthermore, at the last summit of Heads of State and Government in July, the European Commission would have been asked to prepare and present, in the first half of 2021, a proposal for a "digital advance" which would enter into force by 1 January 2023 at the latest. It would seem, however, that some of our European partners are sluggish about this possibility, considering that a global agreement is still possible. What seems complicated in the face of the attitude of the US in particular in this case, but I immediately concede that next week's elections could eventually change the situation. As I said, the new government will be proactive on these issues, and the crisis of the VOCID-19 also makes it possible to move certain lines: faced with funding needs, including hospitals, but also with the need for an ambitious recovery and investment plan, alternatives will have to be sought. In other words, go get the funding where it is, as I said in my previous question. Clearly, GAFAMs and multinationals are among the necessary contributors. Could you provide us with a new overview of the current negotiations at the OECD? Do you confirm that the request made to the Commission in July is in line with what I was expressing? Is it still up to date? Finally, in the light of the government agreement, could you inform me of Belgium's attitude in this matter and confirm to me, if necessary, that it would have evolved in the right direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u36	Mr Ben Achour, the negotiations on the creation of a new tax system to meet the challenges of digitisation of the economy have been taking place within the OECD for about two years. Indeed, in March 2018, the G20 gave a mandate to the Inclusive Framework on the Erosion and Profit Shifting Base (BEPS), which brings together more than 135 countries, with a view to presenting a comprehensive consensus-based solution by the end of this year. The OECD proposal is based on two mutually reinforcing pillars. Last August, the OECD secretariat drafted two blueprints - or master plans - reflecting the discussions that have taken place in the Inclusive Framework for each pillar since the beginning of the work. Both documents highlight the convergence of views that emerged between member countries during the negotiations, while recognizing that some issues remain open. The All-Inclusive Framework met for the last time on 8 and 9 October. At these meetings, members approved the two blueprints. On 14 October, these were discussed between the G20 Finance Ministers. For the time being, no political agreement has been reached on this point, in particular because of the position of the United States. Blueprints are now open for public consultation until the end of the year. The deadline for a political agreement is extended to mid-2021. The European Union has already announced that, in the absence of agreement within the OECD, it will take an initiative as early as 2021. Therefore, we can expect an acceleration of the issue at European level in the coming months under the impetus of the European Commission and the German Presidency of the Council. As reflected in the government agreement of 30 September 2020, Belgium will play a constructive and proactive role in the work on international tax reform. Our country is in favour of a multilateral response. It is only in the event of an absence of a solution at one of these two levels that Belgium will draw up a unilateral digital tax in 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u37	Thank you for that reminder, which, moreover, arouses the disapproval of Mr Loones, who is leaving.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u38	In fact, the Prime Minister is now giving explanations... and I would like to confront the two answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u39	All right. It was in any case explicit and in line with the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u40	Alas, yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u41	We will discuss it. We believe that this is an indispensable and necessary passage. It is also a way to adapt to this new cycle of globalisation, which takes place through the emergence of the Internet and digital. If we do not make these adjustments, particularly with regard to taxation, States will be condemned to losing essential resources. The ideal is, of course, to have a solution in a multilateral framework - the OECD foresees -. Otherwise, we will have to take on our responsibilities, as France is committed to doing. So we will not be alone, and we will have to move forward with as much ambition as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u42	Minister, several regulators, mainly outside Belgium, warn of possible storm weather in the banking sector as a second corona wave, in which we are currently in the midst of massive bankruptcies. According to the European Central Bank's highest financial watchdog, the consequences of a second lockdown on the banking sector would not be perceptible. In addition to the European Central Bank, the IMF and the Netherlands Bank also warn against an explosion of defaults that could cause problems for the banks. Banks can be affected by rising bankruptcies and credit losses if temporary government measures are phased out and banks' moratoria expire, if poor companies and consumers pay off their loans late or at all, banks start to restrict their full lending and strong companies are no longer able to finance themselves. Large banks in the Netherlands, such as KBC and ING, have already increased their provisions for bad loans. The supervisory authorities are particularly concerned about the smaller local banks in Europe. Their fate is linked to that of their SME customers. Small and medium-sized enterprises, for example in hotels or tourism, face problems with smaller banks. That is why I have a number of questions, Minister. We've heard about this from the National Bank. What is the situation with the banks in Belgium? Are there any banks in Belgium that have increased their provisions for bad loans, as has happened in the Netherlands? Are there any possible solutions if it would come to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u43	The Belgian banks face the same challenges, but can make use of a very good financial start-up position and large capital and liquidity buffers to meet these challenges. Both banks and supervisors are well aware of the impact of the COOVID-19 crisis on the potential credit losses on loans and have taken preventive actions to cover and absorb losses. Business failures and an increase in the unemployment rate will undoubtedly lead to credit losses in the Belgian banking sector. For the time being, the share of problem loans - loans that are already late or may not be repaid - is still stable at a low level. Bank loans to the Belgian non-financial private sector consist of approximately two thirds of loans to Belgian households, mainly mortgage loans, and about one third of loans to companies. The impact of the crisis on companies varies from sector to sector. The Belgian banks have a relatively limited amount of credit in respect of the most affected sectors. The Belgian banks have prepared themselves, in accordance with prudential rules, for the expected increase in debt securities due to the corona crisis. In the first half of 2020, a total of 2.1 billion of new provisions were created for expected credit losses in the context of the corona crisis. Those provisions shall be used to build reserves against potential future credit losses. By June 2020, the total provisions built up for the loan portfolio amounted to around € 10.4 billion. According to their projections for the full year 2020, banks expect to increase the amount of provisions for the entire financial year. The effective level of the losses to be made will depend on the severity and duration of the recession, but also on the quality and speed of the subsequent recovery. In addition to the buffers already included in the banking regulatory framework, banks, supervisors and governments have also taken a number of initiatives to respond as appropriately as possible to the future increase in credit derivatives, including by trying to avoid as many hard bankruptcies and defaults as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is important that we, together with the National Bank, which has also pointed out the good capital and liquidity buffer of our banks, regularly point this out, because in our economic world and our economy, it is essential that the people and businesses remain confident in our banks. We must therefore continue to say that we are taking the preventive and prudential measures necessary to prevent our banks from capturing. I also call on all colleagues to keep saying that. We are taking the necessary measures and we must continue to take them, both for the banks and in support of the companies, so that they can continue to pay and pay off their investments and loans respectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u45	Question No 55009818C by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u46	The IMF's latest Global Financial Stability Report comes to a remarkable conclusion and recommendation. According to the IMF, equity markets have ignored the increasing number of natural disasters over the past 50 years and more stringent measures are needed to make investors aware of the dangers of the climate crisis. According to the IMF, companies should be forced to disclose their exposure to climate risks, as a voluntary approach does not go far enough. This suggests that investors may not pay sufficient attention to the risks of climate change. According to the IMF, the mandatory disclosure of climate change risk could be based on internationally agreed principles in the short term. In the longer term, standards for disclosure of climate change risks should be included in financial statements that comply with international accounting standards, according to the IMF. Did you take note of that report? What are your assessments, analyses and recommendations of the passage on the poor calculation of natural disasters and climate change in the stock prices in Chapter 5? Are you considering steps at national, European or international level to implement the recommendations as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u47	You yourself are right to point out that the impact of climate change on business activities and prospects is highly uncertain and, of course, extremely difficult to assess. This does not, of course, mean that these risks must be ignored. It is also important that investors have the most accurate information possible. In this way, of course, a field of tension arises: it is a difficult balancing exercise to provide as precise as possible information on risks that are very difficult to estimate, without going into exaggeration or underestimation. The risks must not be ignored, as has already been said, and must be described in some way in the information that companies need to make public. I believe that this can best be arranged internationally, through the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Europe also has a role to play, as the rules that companies have to follow when drawing up financial reports are contained in a directive. The Commission has recently consulted on the revision of the Non-Financial Reporting Directive and is currently examining the responses to the consultation. The adaptation and strengthening of the provisions to a genuine reporting requirement is certainly an option. The work and evaluation are ongoing, but it remains a work in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that you are taking the problem seriously. Climate change and its consequences are not only a humanitarian problem, but also a particular financial risk. The banks are very aware of this, as I can see from a explanatory statement by Febelfin. The banking sector is aware that there is inevitably a drastic shift towards a low carbon society and that, the longer society waits for that transition, the steeper the transition will be and the faster everything will have to be done. The banks will have to bear the financial risks of this. That is why the banking community itself is calling for rapid action. It is our job to expose the risks throughout the financial system. Recommendations, such as those of the IMF, can help. Let us therefore take it seriously. I understand from your reply that you are doing so, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u49	Minister, we know that many important dossiers with a major impact on state finances, the cohesion of Belgian society and trust in the rule of law are at the crossroads of the powers of Finance, Justice and Home Affairs. Examples include tax fraud, tax avoidance, money laundering, terrorist financing, etc. The FinCEN Files again highlight the importance of this cooperation. I have the following questions about this. Firstly, what priorities do you see in general to improve the cooperation of finance, justice and home affairs? Secondly, in reply to the preliminary findings of the Court of Auditors in preparation for the first evaluation report on the international automatic exchange of tax data drawn up at the request of the Panama Commission, your predecessor stated that he was planning a consultation with the Minister of Justice to see how cooperation between the two administrations could be improved in this area. Your predecessor's reply of 3 September showed that this consultation had not yet taken place. Have you already planned a consultation on this issue? What are the priorities for this consultation for you in this area? Will you settle here the absence of the criminal prosecutions announced for those who did not want to regularize? Thirdly, about sixty magistrates work at the Belgian parquets, specialising in economic and financial crime. They receive help from 30 officials seconded from Finance. How do you evaluate this posting? Are there any points of improvement in cooperation? Is there a demand from your services or from the parquets for an extension of this cooperation in terms of people or resources? Fourthly, after the division of the Federal Police's Economic and Financial Crime Directorate in 2014 and the transfer of its activities to the five largest judicial police forces in our country, with limited central support, these services were to be given new mixed investigation teams, in which they would work with tax officials and social inspectors to investigate the major fraud files. After five years of delay, a framework agreement between Justice, Police and Social Inspectorates was signed in November 2019, a year ago, to set up the teams. However, there was no agreement with the tax authorities. What is your view on the meaning of these mixed investigation teams? Do you share the analysis that the contribution of FPS Finance officials to such research teams would be added value? Can you explain why the agreement was not reached? Can you give a time frame within which the tax authorities will participate in these mixed investigation teams?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u50	Mr Vanbesien, I share your view that large-scale fraud cases, whether fiscal, economic or social, can only be dealt with successfully if they are integrated. Such dossiers are inextricably linked to criminal networks which do act in an integrated way, and that is what we must do. Learning from every confrontation with the court and administration, these protagonists always refine their working methods. It is important that the right priorities are used in each department concerned in dealing with organised crime. This presupposes the right investment and an appropriate staffing policy on recruitment, retention and so on. I am convinced that my colleagues fully share my opinion on this. From this point of view, it was one of the first decisions of this government to appoint the members of the Ministerial Committee for the fight against tax and social fraud and to centralise the power to coordinate the fight against fraud under my jurisdiction. A further step, which has been taken in the meantime, is the setting up of a College to combat tax and social fraud, which has now been called upon to implement this cooperation, on which we would like to place a great deal of emphasis, with the result of an action plan to combat fraud. It is a little premature to say what will be in that action plan, but it is clear that the exchange of information will be an important starting point. At the same time, I can assure you that the provision of specialised tax officials to the public prosecutors, the federal police and the SIOD has been positively evaluated for many years. We must therefore continue to work on genuinely integrated public action which avoids duplication of effort. The effectiveness and efficiency of the joint investigation teams would be greatly increased if officials could transfer their knowledge on the file. The framework agreement between the Justice, Police and Social Inspectorates is known to me and is an example. It does not make sense that this has not happened in parallel with the tax inspection services. This shows all the more that the coordination of the fight against fraud will be a very important step forward. That's what we'll be doing in the next few weeks and months. We are also looking forward to the anti-fraud action plan that the College is preparing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We all expect a great deal from the fight against fraud. If we want to fight and win this battle, we will indeed have to pool the various forces of the government and work closely together. Let us therefore do everything we can to facilitate this cooperation and to make the best possible use of it. You have a great partner in us for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u52	Minister, progress on the German-French proposal on the financial transaction tax was discussed in the Finance Committee in October 2019. There have been a number of important developments in this respect. For example, prior to the meeting of Finance Ministers in March, the German Finance Minister, Scholz, in a letter to his colleagues, informed that he assumed that a new meeting at ministerial level would help to find a common compromise. In addition, he also indicated in the German Bundestag's Finance Committee that he would get the minimum number of countries needed to start enhanced cooperation. In addition, a report ordered by the German Government itself indicated that the Commission's 2013 proposal is actually much more useful than the French-German proposal, which presents a number of far-reaching problems. Minister, what signals has Belgium given to Germany since October 2019 with regard to the Franco-German proposal? What answer did Belgium give to the German invitation? What position did Belgium take on the consultations on 16 and 17 March? What is Belgium's position on the Austrian criticism, as well as on the criticism and suggestions for improvement presented in the report of the Institut für Weltwortschaft? How do you relate to the possibility of introducing the financial transaction tax as one of the European Union's so-called own resources under the European Multiannual Financial Framework? What was agreed at the European Summit on 17-21 July in connection with the financial transaction tax? What meetings have been held at European level since 1 July and what are still planned in connection with the roll-out of a financial transaction fee? What position will Belgium take on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u53	Mr Vanbesien, I will try to answer briefly and succinctly your many questions on this subject. The previous meeting of the technical working group on the financial transaction tax dates from 12 November 2019. Belgium has taken part in this in a constructive way, but has pointed out a number of concerns of our country, firstly, the taxableness in the current proposal of transactions by pension funds, secondly, the impact of the financial transaction tax on the tax on the stock exchange transactions and the economic impact on the Belgian stock exchange by the relocation of various activities to, for example, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, which do not participate in the enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax and, thirdly, the exclusion from the scope of the specific speculative transactions. There was no official response to the German invitation. If the German Finance Minister is organising a meeting with his colleagues on this subject, I will of course take part. Due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the financial transaction tax was no longer dealt with at the consultations. The Austrian Finance Minister has recently indicated that he wishes to return to the Commission's initial proposal of September 2011. It opted for a broad tax base, covering all types of financial instruments. The German report is particularly critical of the fact that the current proposal would exclude over-the-counter trading and derivatives from the financial transaction tax. The report calls for them to be brought under the scope of the financial transaction tax at a low rate. A broad tax base and a low rate make the tax less market-distorting. The report will undoubtedly be discussed in the Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation FTT and the scope of the financial transaction tax can still be changed. To date no technical or legal impact has been given to this. It is therefore premature to take a position on this. No concrete agreements have yet been reached either. However, at Council level, the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union has so far not taken any initiative in this area. A further technical meeting of the Working Group on Enhanced Cooperation FTT is scheduled to take place on 29 October 2020. As mentioned in the coalition agreement, Belgium will play a constructive role in promoting the realisation of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u54	The financial transaction tax has been on the agenda for years as an instrument to counter speculation and to exploit part of the proceeds of activities that do not in themselves represent any economic added value for our society. I understand that the lobby is strong against this and that it is not easy to get the noses in the same direction. I would therefore urge our country to show itself to be a strong supporter of the measure and to make it clear to our European partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u55	Mr Piedboeuf, first of all, I would like to point out that the portability in question was introduced by the previous government in order to provide a prompt and adequate response to the coronavirus crisis. This portability is included in Circular 2020/C/72 of 25 May 2020 under one of the measures to be confirmed by royal decree of special powers to deal with the crisis of the VOCID-19. This measure was intended to meet the difficulties that the audiovisual and performing arts sector claimed to face as a result of the containment imposed from 13 March 2020. I note that this royal decree was not adopted. Therefore, these circular measures become irrelevant. However, because of the principle of good administration, it is not my intention to revert, in the past, to the situations covered by the measures concerned. The scope of the circular is therefore maintained for the framework conventions as defined therein. As you know, the consequences of VOCID-19 remain relevant, particularly for the cultural sector. I will ask my administration to examine whether and how this measure can be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u56	Minister, that's perfect. I wasn't asking for more. This is simply the extension of the deadline until December 31, since, given the situation, shows are cancelled. If we do not allow the portability and carry forward of the funds, then they will be lost for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u57	Given the circumstances, are extensions also planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u58	Mr President, the concept of force majeure is expressly included in various parts of the 1992 Income Tax Code. It shall not be taken over in the context of the system of spread taxation of capital gains and the period of reinvestment associated with it. Since none of the three "coronal laws" of 29 May, 23 June and 15 July has planned to extend this period and no legislative initiative is planned to do so, it is appropriate to stick to the legal text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u59	Minister, I understand at the legislative level, but this is still a problem given the circumstances and the fact that sometimes jobs are not possible on time because of the immobilization of certain companies. Perhaps I will intervene with regard to this situation in a proposal that the Corona crisis which some construction companies are experiencing, in particular, may have an effect on the taxation of capital gains which are not used within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u60	Madam President, Minister, a baker, a butcher, a convenience store, a newspaper shop, we are increasingly hearing that they are disappearing in the smaller villages. It is particularly unfortunate because there is less life in those villages. The same goes for the ATMs. More and more people are told that the last branch of the bank office withdraws and also closes the ATMs. This creates problems, especially with the older population in our municipalities. This theme has been discussed here before. We know that the financial sector is also aware that this is causing problems. Febelfin is working with the four largest banks in this country on a distribution plan. Bank-neutral ATMs would be installed across the territory. We want to fully support that plan. We think that we should go a little further ourselves. Our N-VA Group has already tabled a bill to ensure that cash machines or cash poles would be placed in smaller neighborhood shops so that people have access to cash when needed. You know, Minister, that the previous ministers supported that idea by Febelfin for the distribution of ATMs. Do you support that, too? Have you been in contact with the banking sector? Will you take initiatives to support that plan as well as possible, so that as much life as possible remains in our small village communities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u61	Madam President, Minister, in Belgium and Flanders we are dealing with a dwindling financial service. More and more branches have closed the doors. In addition, many ATMs have disappeared from the street scene. That creates a lot of problems, not least for the social fabric. It also has a damaging impact on local traders, because people spend the money where they can pick it up. It also has a negative impact on the freedom of movement of older residents, who are not really involved in digital payments and are therefore going to delay spending and thus become isolated from services, which is not a good thing. It happens not only in rural communities, but also in urbanised municipalities. In Zelzate, and specifically in Zelzate-West, from where I come from, 5,000 people live together and there are many traders active, but there is no more ATM. So one has to go to the surrounding municipalities, or to the center. That center is two kilometers away in a bird's-eye. The problem is that there is also a very difficult accessibility. In the specific context of Zelzate: the bridge is open 20 times a day, but when moving back and forth, you are sometimes half an hour or an hour away to withdraw money. If we want to move towards a 15-minute municipality, where all the necessary services are available within that 15-minute radius, we must find a solution. That is why, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to your political responsibility to encourage large banks to work as quickly as possible on a fine-meshed network of ATMs so that services can be re-established. This is particularly true of Belfius, because the government still has an important finger in it. The service needs to be re-enforced. If everyone is taken along, this can give the local traders a new perspective in many cities and municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u62	Madam President, Mr Loones, Mr De Vuyst, on this very specific dossier, I have not yet had contact with Febelfin or with the large banks, but I naturally intend to schedule this consultation. I will certainly keep you informed of developments in this regard. For the state of play of the distribution plan, I refer to the latest reports on this matter. The cooperation project of the four major banks is intended to ensure that 95% of the population in Belgium has an ATM at a distance of up to 5 kilometres. This should ensure that every Belgian consumer and trader has easy and secure access to withdrawals or cash deposits. The first devices would be activated by mid 2021, followed by a further phased roll-out. This project would thus provide an appropriate response to the needs of our society, which further digitizes in a fast-track journey. I will, of course, also work to create the conditions to facilitate the roll-out of this project. Cash money is still an important means of payment today. However, the government cannot be blind to the decreasing importance of cash money in society and will certainly also have to take initiatives to further stimulate digital payment traffic and develop digital literacy among all sections of the population. The coalition agreement also provides for this. This must certainly lead to all sections of the population being involved in society that is further digitalising in all areas. I certainly intend to discuss this particular question, but there is already a distribution plan. I think we should also look at further digitisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u63	Thank you, Minister. You are right to say that cash is still an important means of payment. It is logical that we should pursue a policy that will stimulate digital payment, but a pro-digital policy should not be anti-cash policy. I hear in your reply that you continue to assess the relevance of both. It is important that this was confirmed as a reference point today. You also mentioned the distribution plan. We will have to look at more fine-meshed solutions there. I myself come from a municipality where in a very touristic core, St. Idesbald, there was no ATM for a long time. The municipality itself had to conclude an agreement with and pay to the bank to keep a cash machine open again. There are vending machines within a radius of five kilometers, but that solution is not fine enough for such a core. I am sure you will take those arguments with you or share them. Finally, there is the call to take a look at our bill to make the cash poles in local shops possible again. This dossier was almost completed by the Swedish Government, which for some reason has suddenly come to an end. This was one of the files that could not be closed, but now might be the time to pick it up again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You argue that more efforts should be made to get people involved in digital payment. That's correct. We do not oppose further digitisation, but everyone has to be able to go along with it. Services must remain intact, because, as has been said, we still do not live in a cashless society. In the context of Zelzate-West we are talking about five thousand people and a lot of traders who are active there, and they do notice the disadvantages of that. You're talking about the localization plan. The four major banks have indeed set up a consortium in which they would set up all the ATMs according to a new localization plan. The danger is, of course, that the mere definition of a five-mile range will not be the solution. Of course, the accessibility criteria must also be taken into account. Access to ATMs must also be viewed by social and social glasses. We therefore urge you, as Minister of Finance, to draw the attention of the banks to this, so that they take account of the provision of services to the public. After all, as taxpayers, we all stepped in in 2008 to save the banking system from a financial and economic disaster. That should be a bit of return on society on the other hand. I hope that's what you're doing. In concrete terms, I also hope that you will ensure that the inhabitants of Zelzate-West have at least one ATM. One ATM for 5,000 inhabitants and in the vicinity of a commercial core is not an unnecessary luxury.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u65	Mrs Depoorter is not present for her question No. 55009871C, which removes that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u66	Madam Chair, Minister, at the time of its installation, the government presented the House with a very meagre budget table, with a few figures. In the part on the effort to be made, the part on tax revenue, which concerns you, represents 30% of the total and includes the following items (amounts at the end of 2024):- transposition of the e-commerce directive: €270 million; - Digi Tax: EUR 100 million; - OECD tax: EUR 300 million; - VAT and excise duties on tobacco: EUR 480 million; - non-indexing of tax expenditure: EUR 66 million; Minister, what other tax revenues are being considered by the government without being included in this table? Can you confirm that the 270 million of the transposition of the e-commerce directive consists of an increase in the VAT to be paid by Belgian consumers? In the EUR 480 million under the heading "VAT and excise duties on tobacco", what is the negative amount corresponding to the reduction in tobacco consumption - I assume that this is the primary purpose of this tax increase? Can you provide the documents, calculations and tables related to the preparation of this budget table for the items that are within your competence - tax revenues, the fight against tax fraud, the end of the amnesty, etc.?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u67	Mr Van Hees, the budget table reflects the measures already finally decided by the government. By definition, VAT is a final tax on consumers. It is clear that the €270 million VAT revenue for the e-commerce Directive relates to final consumption in Belgium according to VAT legislation. The 480 million in excise duties and VAT on tobacco is an objective to be achieved. The aim is for the measure to be designed in such a way as to have a net impact on revenue, i.e. a foreseeable negative impact on consumption will have to be taken into account. The measure still needs to be developed in detail by 2024. I will not hide from you that there are a number of measures which are the expression of action to be taken, such as the tobacco measure, as well as for the fight against tax fraud. The administration must now develop measures to achieve this objective. We will no doubt discuss this further at the time of the debate on the budget and the programme law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u68	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to stress my last question. I would remind you: can you provide the documents, calculations and tables related to the preparation of this budget table for the items that fall within your competence? I would have liked to receive them if not physically by email, as your secretariat has already done in the past. For the rest, your answers seem interesting to me as you tell me that the table only reflects the measures that have already been definitively decided. Indeed, I assume that measures such as the tax on "the widest shoulders" are not included. So this table is incomplete. You also tell us that the increase in VAT totalling 270 million (e-commerce directive) will be well supported by Belgian consumers. We consider that it is the people who will pay taxes that are unfair, even if one can defend such a type of directive. As far as the tobacco tax is concerned, you tell us that the target is 480 million, almost half a billion euros a year from 2024. This is the net impact on revenue. This means that people will reduce their consumption. So the gross amount is higher than that half billion euros. We are in the presence of fairly strong taxes. Of course, this is a measure taken under the banner of the struggle for health. One can understand, but 480 million euros, Minister, is that not somewhat exaggerated? I'm not asking you the question, because we're not going to start a new trick, but we can at least ask each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u69	With almost 8% of the shares, the Belgian State is the largest shareholder of BNP Paribas, with the corresponding representative on the board and impact on the agenda of the shareholders' meetings. It is common knowledge that, in addition to the corona crisis, the world is facing another double crisis, namely the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis. These crises can only be solved if global financial flows can be steered in a direction that enables global climate neutrality and strengthens ecosystems rather than erosion. It is therefore worrying that, despite some positive steps in some departments, BNP Paribas continues to play an important role in the financing of the fossil sector and the deforestation of the Amazon forest. Last year, for example, the Dirty Dozen Companies Driving Deforestation report showed that BNP Paribas is one of the main financiers of companies responsible for the deforestation of the Amazon forest and the Cerrado. After the deforestation and forest fires of this summer and one after the other scientific study which indicates that the Amazon forest has almost reached the point where it is entering a self-destructive spiral, the so-called tipping point, such funding seems more undesirable than ever. The same applies to the financing of oil mining and transport in the Peruvian and Ecuadorian areas where the Amazon is emerging. BNP Paribas also plays an important role in this, according to a recent report by Amazon Watch, among others. This year's Banking on Climate Change report also contains worrying climate figures on BNP Paribas' fossil funding. I had already given you a number of more detailed written questions on this subject. How do you see Belgium's role as the largest shareholder in BNP Paribas' policy in terms of climate, biodiversity and protection of the Amazon? What steps will you take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u70	Mr Vanbesien, the FPIM and BNP Paribas maintain regular and constant contact on several important issues relating to the management of BNP Paribas, so certainly also on climate-related issues. If you ask what role we see in this, the FPIM will, of course, be responsible for developing a coordinated, sustainable and ambitious investment strategy. One of the objectives will, of course, be to gradually reduce investment in fossil fuels and fuels. This is fully in line with the choices made by the European Investment Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u71	Minister, I know the intentions of the European Investment Bank and the FPIM, but BNP Paribas seems to be a bit of a loose end in that. The role of financiers is crucial to what happens in the world. The importance of the Amazon is known to everyone. President Bolsonaro's policy, a rather arrogant man, only makes the problem worse. We have little or no influence on Mr Bolsonaro's policy, but we do have an influence on BNP Paribas' policy. We should have that influence anyway. We're the biggest shareholder. If one is divided into a club called the Dirty Dozen Driving Deforestation of the Amazon, then that sounds nice but that is not a club one would like to be a member of. Mr Minister, let us use the influence we have at the bank as much as possible. If we don't, why should we keep the participation in the bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u72	Madam President, Minister, for some time now the OECD's Inclusive Framework has been negotiating to address the tax challenges in a digital economy, under the mandates of the G20 and the G7. As 137 countries are members of the Inclusive Framework, the success of these negotiations can have a huge impact on the reduction of global tax avoidance. The negotiations on two well-known pillars, in particular the determination of the location where a multinational tax pays on the one hand and the setting of a minimum tax on the other, followed an ambitious time frame, aiming to land this year. Last summer, I questioned your predecessor about the impact of the US-Trump attitude on the progress of the negotiation process and the opportunities for European action if the OECD negotiations failed. Today, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions about the content and direction of these negotiations. Firstly, on both the first and the second pillars, it does not seem entirely clear how the possible outcome of the negotiations will be implemented. Does it look like the good will of the participating countries will be expected, or will it be established through one or more new international tax treaties? What is the Belgian position in that regard? Secondly, on the second pillar, what minimum level of assessment will one go to? Do you think 12.5 % is feasible? What is the position of our country in this? Thirdly, on the second pillar, will there be exceptions to go below that minimum level? If so, which one? What is the position of our country in that? Should there be exceptions, how will they be prevented from undermining the whole system? How does Belgium relate to this? Finally, I have a few more general questions about progress. Are you satisfied with what is now on the OECD negotiating table? To what extent have the European negotiations on an alternative been advanced in the event of the failure of the OECD negotiations, given the French statements following the latest G20 summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u73	Thank you, Mr Vanbesien, for this already comprehensive list of questions that I can receive. As it now appears, a political agreement on the two pillars will have to be implemented both at national level, through national tax rules, and at international level. For Pillar 1, where a new tax is actually introduced, it concerns the national rules for the identification of taxable persons, the calculation of the tax, the declaration and control and the avoidance of double taxation. Pillar 2 will require national rules in order to be able to tax profits that were not or insufficiently taxed abroad in Belgium. With regard to your questions, a model of legislation will be drawn up for both pillars and will have to be complied with by the States. At international level, a new multilateral treaty will be introduced to incorporate international rules, together with a commonly agreed explanatory memorandum and binding directives. This new treaty will take precedence over existing bilateral tax treaties and Belgium fully supports this approach. With regard to your second question, the minimum rate that activates the rules of Pillar 2 has not yet been fixed. This rate is likely to be between 10% and 15%. Belgium can accept this since the rate will not be set at national nominating rates but at effective tax rates, calculated on the basis of the taxes actually levied. With regard to your third question, in the current state of affairs, a number of entities are excluded from the scope of Pillar 2. These include collective investment companies, pension funds, government entities, international government organisations and non-profit organisations. These are excluded for the sake of the finality of their activities, they are not for profit or in the public interest, or because not the entity but the beneficiaries are normally taxed on their income, such as pension funds, collective investment undertakings and so on. Belgium also supports this approach. I remain convinced that tax challenges arising from the digitisation of the economy are best addressed in a global and coordinated manner, preferably at the level of the Inclusive Framework. If an agreement could not be reached at that level, a coordinated approach at the European level must of course be sought. With regard to your general comments, Belgium will, as stated in the government agreement, contribute constructively to an international solution. Belgium is generally satisfied with the proposal now on the negotiating table of the Inclusive Framework, both on Pillar 1 and Pillar 2. The proposal provides a solid basis for a political agreement. The members of the Inclusive Framework also consider that a political agreement on both pillars is possible by mid 2021. They will do all they can for this purpose. For this reason, it is also appropriate to take action at the European level only if such an agreement is not reached. Belgium also assumes that the Commission will then make concrete proposals and put a draft directive on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Personally, I have a strong sense of justice. This OECD initiative is very important in this respect. It is appalling how a number of multinationals can make them slip through the loopholes over and over again, but that is only because we all allow it. We can only tackle this by stopping the inappropriate tax competition between the different countries. So I really hope that we can force a breakthrough here, preferably with the OECD by mid 2021, if not with the European Union. We will discuss this once in a while in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u75	Madam President, Minister, Professor Koen Schoors wrote in a recent paper of opinion, and I quote: "We should not be under any illusions about Prime Minister Boris Johnson's intentions after the Brexit. The UK's strategy is to become a freelancer at the border of the European Union. In the European Union for financial matters, but just outside the grasp of European financial regulation and justice. If we allow this to happen, we will have another race to the bottom, with Member States rolling out the red carpet for the global fat jars of corruption, tax evasion, crime and terrorism as a matter of urgency. The conclusion is obvious. If the UK wants to stand outside the European Union, it can no longer be the financial centre of the European Union. The settlement and clearing of all financial transactions in euros must take place entirely in the European Union, because whatever rules you agree with the British, you can assume that they do not comply." It is indeed no secret that the current UK Government has a number of Members who do not see much benefit in a sufficiently regulated financial sector. Moreover, the recent steps taken by the Johnson Government to return to the withdrawal agreement negotiated only a few months earlier in relation to Ireland raises concerns that any arrangements made with the UK to subject the UK financial sector to similar rules and case law as their counterpart in the European Union would in practice mean little. What is the current state of play in the negotiations on financial services? How do you assess this current state of affairs? Do you also believe that the settlement and clearing of all financial transactions in euro should take place entirely within the European Union? What preparations have already been made to avoid the race to the bottom that Mr Schoors outlines, both in a deal and in a no-deal situation of the Brexit? What steps will be taken and what steps do you consider necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u76	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, the Brexit transition period ends at the end of this year. At that time, the European passport will also disappear, allowing UK financial institutions to offer services in the European Union, regardless of whether an agreement can be reached on the future relationship between the EU and the United Kingdom. Financial services as such are not part of the negotiations. The possible access of UK financial institutions in the EU will therefore depend on European equivalence decisions which are not negotiated, but which are decided autonomously by the European Union and the United Kingdom respectively, and to a lesser extent also by national legislation. However, within the Chapter on Law Enforcement and Judicial Cooperation of Brexit negotiations, subjective issues are discussed which are relevant to the field of financial services. For example, the European Union calls for continued and far-reaching cooperation with the United Kingdom in the fight against money laundering. Furthermore, it is essential that the European Union adheres to its high standards in the field of financial services and protects the integrity of the single market, in order to avoid precisely a race to the bottom. However, after the Brexit, national and European regulators and supervisors must continue to cooperate with the United Kingdom, as London may remain the only global financial centre in Europe for some time to come. So much for an answer to your four questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The Brexit will create a problem for our country in many areas, including the financial markets. Two weeks ago, we had the hearing with the investigative journalists of the FinCEN Files. They also refer to the United Kingdom as a place where currently very little is being done to prevent malicious practices such as the use of fencing companies. Let us be aware of this and let us follow developments in the United Kingdom with due attention. Let us try to ensure that we keep clearing and settlement of transactions in euro within the European Union, because that will make things somewhat less complex.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u78	Minister, there are many questions today. This is due to the fact that the coalition agreement is fairly vague. There are even many questions from parliamentarians of majority parties who are apparently not sure what exactly has been agreed. These are often questions about very large files such as the digitals, the minimum tax, the tobacco tax or the financial transaction tax. I noticed that there were a lot of questions about taxes. Apparently, there has to be something to do about that in your government. I have questions about a number of smaller themes, which are closer to the people. There was a question earlier about the ATMs. I'm talking about blockchain technology for a specific target group. That is technology that is used not only for making digital coins or crypto coins, but also for many other things. Via the internet or things, for example, one can link the programmed refrigerator, where the temperature is stored in an application, to the placing of orders in shops via the storage portfolio. There is also game technology where one can trade business. For this purpose, a small piece of currency is kept on a custody portfolio. That's all very technical. What's it about now? The many young people who sit at home playing on their computers will now be subject to a whole set of regulations, because they are almost supposed to be laundering money by placing a small piece of financial reserve on a storage portfolio in order to exchange things in their computer game. That can't be the intention. What is your opinion, Minister? Do you also think that we need to be big when we are looking for pragmatic solutions to this technology, which is very important in West Flanders and other parts of Flanders, so that it can be fully profitable and flourishing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u79	Mr Loones, I think it's funny that you say you're discussing smaller themes that are closer to the people and then you're talking about blockchain technology and storage portfolios. I understand your question, of course, because it is an important element for the future. The decision to subject all providers of custody portfolios to AML legislation was taken at European level when the fifth AML Directive was drafted. No distinction was made between the level of risk of activities carried out by providers of custody portfolios. The European Commission also follows a similar approach in its draft regulation on markets for cryptoassets, in which it imposes identical rules, without distinction, to all parties offering services for the preservation and management of cryptoassets. Subjecting providers of custody portfolios to AML regulations is precisely intended to solve the problem of anonymity of transactions in virtual coins. It would therefore be illogical to change the rules on customer identification or to introduce a threshold from when the rules apply. The AML regulation is based on the fundamental principle of risk-based approach. That approach requires the subject entities to apply vigilance measures in relation to the risks to which they are exposed. Thus, providers of custody portfolios of the transactions mentioned by you will be able to adjust the level of their vigilance measures to the extent of the identified risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Not everyone necessarily needs to know how sausages are turned, as long as we can all eat delicious sausages. It is not because the file quoted is very technical that it is far from us. I don't have to tell you that. I am thinking, for example, of a dossier such as VAT on e-commerce. That is a technical dossier but has a very concrete real impact. I would also like to thank you for your intention that you should pay attention to this now and later, so that the machinery would run smoothly, young guests can play with their computer games and blockchain applications that will certainly be developed in the future. It is a dream to be able to sit in the seat, while the machinery itself places the orders, while we no longer have to cross to the shop. Then we will again have some extra time to mow the grass, unless that can happen automatically, but we will see that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u81	Madam President, Minister, my question is indeed about adequate housing for persons with disabilities. There are different places of life for these people, such as institutional residential services and the family home of close relatives. However, the lack of housing is staggering. At present, new and adapted housing models are emerging: inclusive, inclusive housing for people with mild to moderate intellectual disabilities. This responds to the demand of these people to be able to have more autonomy, without being totally isolated. Minister, in the government agreement, an analysis of the social and fiscal regulation of several types of housing, including intergenerational cohabitation, is planned. Do you think this analysis can be extended to specialized homes for persons with disabilities? Also in the government agreement, a reduced VAT rate of 6% is provided for demolitions-reconstructions of social housing. In your view, even if I do not ask you to make a clear statement on behalf of the government, is it possible to broaden the consideration for the construction of this new type of habitat suitable for persons with disabilities? This could be a response to this glaring lack of adequate housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u82	Madam Member, the concept of inclusive housing in solidarity is not currently known as such in the VAT rules. Housing in which disabled persons live in solidarity can already be built or acquired with the application of the reduced VAT rate of 6% if the conditions of the reduced VAT rate for private housing for disabled persons are met. These are three conditions. This regulation first requires that the dwelling be delivered to or built by an intermediate body, which then makes it available on the basis of a rental contract. Second, these housing buildings must be specifically adapted so that they can be used as private housing by these disabled persons. Finally, persons with disabilities must be assisted by a fund or agency recognised by the competent authority or body. You refer to people with mild to moderate intellectual disabilities. In so far as the accommodation for these persons is not to be specifically adapted, these dwellings cannot be taken into account for the application of a reduced VAT rate. I am, however, prepared to have an examination of whether an appropriate solution can be found for the concept of inclusive housing in solidarity. I therefore propose that you provide me with all the concrete data and information on this specific type of housing. I will then instruct my administration to examine and report on this issue. You also mention the temporary measure relating to the reduced rate of 6% for the demolition and reconstruction of personal housing(s). The intention is that this measure also concerns projects carried out in the context of new forms of intergenerational or non-generational cohabitation. Depending on the evolution of the discussions on the elaboration of the programme law which will take this measure into account, in view of the specificities related to inclusive, solidarity-based habitats, I will have my administration analyse the legal possibility for these structures to be able to possibly benefit from this temporary measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u83	Minister, I thank you very much for your openness. For, if this is not yet planned in a very clear way today, - you have talked about housing conditions for housing adapted to persons with disabilities - in the case where we are concerned, these are people who cannot live entirely independently, and not entirely alone. There's a nuance. But I thank you again for the spirit of openness. Indeed, I will provide all the information necessary for your administration to examine the various possibilities that would exist. This would enable us to meet this truly pressing need for more suitable housing for this type of person. I'll come back to you as soon as you've had the opportunity to examine all of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u84	Mr Minister, since I was the second speaker of my group in this committee, the banks have been bashed almost continuously. They do too little for the climate, are involved in money laundering and the like. Your predecessor then explained the other side of the story, with the bank guarantee, the bank plan with the extension of payment delays, the federal guarantee scheme and so on. The truth must be somewhere in the middle. There is also such a thing as banking concerns. The banks are concerned by the persistent negative interest rate. The classic commercial model of a bank is slowly coming under pressure. The classic model, such as converting short-term deposits into long-term loans to companies and governments, with a small interest margin, is under pressure. Of course the story of the negative interest rates shows up. This may also be the case in the future for individuals and certainly for individuals with the ING bank. ING will introduce a negative interest rate as of next year. In concrete terms, ING is capping the amount that private customers can put in a regulated savings account to a million euros. The underlying risk is that banks replace their regulated savings accounts with unregulated accounts. Let us not forget that these non-regulated accounts do not benefit from the tax exemption and are subject to withholding tax from the first cent of interest. Since summer 2014, banks have been obliged to pay to move savings to the ECB. As a result, they are increasingly inclined to pass on their costs. We should not go there very lightly. Like your predecessors, you said that you certainly do not want to question the Royal Decree of the end of August 1993, which regulates the basic interest rate. Still, I'm a little concerned about this evolution. How do you judge this? What policy steps can you possibly take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u85	Minister, unlike the previous speaker, I believe that we approach the banks in this committee in a balanced way, from the point of view of both rights and duties. I would like to talk about the double message that banks are giving now. It has already been mentioned: ING Belgium will soon be the first major bank in Belgium to charge negative interest rates to individuals with large amounts in their savings and current accounts. We get a completely different message from the Spanish banking group Banco Santander, which is doing the opposite and rowing against the current. It will raise interest on two savings accounts offered online in Belgium.. That is a double message from the banking sector. Thus, the discussion is reopened about the guaranteed interest on the regulated savings books of the modal saver. The modal saver, that is still the majority of Belgians. This debate is open again and some people are questioning it again. We have already talked about security and the confidence in the banks that we need to create, but we certainly should not create uncertainty as a result of the Belgian savers. Minister, do you remember any other banks in Belgium that would like to charge negative interest rates in the near future? What explanation do you have for the fact that a Spanish banking group, outside for purely commercial reasons, is announcing its intention to raise interest rates? Are you planning to sit with the Belgian banks and find a solution, without allowing negative interest rates on the classic savings and current accounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u86	Thank you to both the questioners for their question. The National Bank has already pointed out in its Financial Stability Report 2020 that the long-term low-interest environment is a major challenge for banks' profitability and business model. As more and more bank investments generate very low to negative interest rates, credit institutions will also have to look for solutions to effectively maintain profitability, which is currently under strong pressure from high commissions for future credit losses due to the corona crisis. The ECB's monetary policy is, of course, aimed at the fact that the holding of money is not interesting. We'd rather the money be invested than it be hoarded. The application of lower interest rates to deposits is thus in line with the ECB's monetary policy. Considerations of financial stability have in the past been the basis for maintaining the minimum savings rate on the regulated savings book. With an amount of around €290 billion, regulated savings deposits represent a very large source of stable financing, including for the Belgian banking sector. From a prudential point of view, the national supervisory authority of the banking sector has consistently maintained the view that the stability of that important source of finance is enhanced by the conditions laid down by the legislator for the regulated savings account. However, the legislator does not require banks to offer regulated savings deposits to customers. It also leaves the credit institutions free to set any limits for the permitted amounts in the individual account. For the moment, I have no knowledge of the intention of other banks to apply zero interest rates or a negative interest rate. Those decisions are part of the strategic and commercial policies of individual credit institutions and determine to what extent each bank will be able to attract that stable source of funding in a competitive market of supply and demand. With regard to Mr Bertels' specific question as to why a Spanish bank can offer a higher interest rate, I can say that I do not really see that, since this concerns the individual situation of the bank and that the bank is not subject to the prudential supervision of the Belgian supervisor. However, given all that I have said so far, I believe that the current legislative framework for the regulated savings account is still appropriate and that both the saver and the credit institution provide the necessary protection to ensure the sustainability of the savings book as a financial instrument, but also as a financial instrument, without compromising financial stability. Of course, in order to monitor the situation closely, I have also requested the necessary input and further follow-up from the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for asking the National Bank to monitor this very closely. It is, of course, a good thing that you do not wish to interfere with the current legislative framework on regulated savings deposits, which is indeed a beacon of stability as a source of finance. However, I believe that we must pay close attention. For example, a smaller bank like Triodos recently announced that it would abolish its regulated savings account at the beginning of December and instead introduce non-regulated accounts with zero interest rates as a base rate and a negative interest rate from a deposit of EUR 500,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u88	The most important thing is what you said at the end. The current legislation on the regulated savings account must be maintained, for us as a sp.a group. It is a sustainable and stable financing, as you yourself say. But she can't be an empty box either. You and the regulators, such as the National Bank, must look at what is happening on that free market. There are effectively a number of banks that transform the regulated savings account unless the customer responds. This is not always easy for certain account holders. People who have been in a savings account for years and who are good savers should not be punished by a sudden or not quite clear movement of their bank. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to keep an eye on the market in order to ensure that every consumer is well informed and is well aware of what his bank is doing or is not doing in this case. Let supervision play, too, and keep a positive eye on the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u89	Minister, during the first wave of coronavirus pandemic, we took a measure of deferment of payment of mortgages, in order to help those individuals who were financially affected by the crisis and who found themselves in temporary or even short-term unemployment. Specifically, this deferral allowed the borrower not to repay his credit for a period of six months. Subsequently, the possibility of an extension of this measure was decided. Therefore, any person who had benefited from the first deferral could request an extension of the measure until 31 December 2020, provided that it was still eligible. To do this, the borrower had to apply for an extension between 1 and 20 September 2020. Unfortunately, it is my responsibility that many of our fellow citizens have not had access to this information in time and are therefore out of time to apply for an extension. Yet they are still in the required condition. Moreover, in light of recent figures, our fight against the virus seems far from over. In this context, Minister, my questions are as follows. At the time the extension of appropriations was decided, was the measure sufficiently communicated to the general public? If so, can you provide me with an inventory of the tools used to make this measure known to the public? Since a large number of citizens would not have had access to this information and the pandemic is going on again, are you considering a further extension of this provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u90	Mr Bayet, the charter for the carry-over of credit payments to Febelfin's companies implied that companies that had requested a carry-over of capital repayment from their banks and fulfilled those criteria automatically obtained it. This arrangement was made possible thanks to the flexible guidelines of the European Banking Authority. These more flexible guidelines implied that banks were not required to register as "bad loans" those credits for which a deferral of repayment of capital had been granted, if it was part of a public or private moratorium. These more flexible guidelines expire at the end of December. The European Banking Authority has not yet indicated its willingness to extend them. I am currently in talks with Febelfin in order to find the best possible solution for the expiry of the moratorium. With regard to your question about the disclosure of the possibility of extension, one of the conditions for obtaining a deferral - and therefore, an extension - presupposes that the borrower has expressed the request itself. In this context, Febelfin, in consultation with my predecessor in Finance, has drawn up a charter with the conditions that the borrower had to meet in order to be eligible. If these conditions were met, the repayment of the credit would be suspended for both capital and interest. For income above EUR 1,700, interest for the carry-over period was to be added to the total amount to be repaid. A new reimbursement table was therefore drawn up. The possible extension of the postponements was widely communicated in the media on the Febelfin website as well as on the lenders' website. It is true that lenders did not always actively approach borrowers because any request for an extension had to be made explicitly at the request of the borrower and only the borrower himself could determine whether or not it was appropriate to request an extension. It is not desirable to actively promote deferment of payment by reaching out to people who do not absolutely need it. The moratorium is a temporary transitional measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answers. There has been some publicity on some websites, but as you recognize yourself, neither have creditors been the most likely to help borrowers who had the most difficulties. We had already discussed it with your predecessor. There is obviously a series of citizens who really needed it and were unable to get into the nails. That is a bit of a shame, however, because it was for them that this measure was voted on in this Parliament. I look forward to your discussions with Febelfin. Unfortunately, I believe that the crisis will continue and that if we want to stop the hemorrhage in our economy, we must at some point try to find intelligent solutions. I think the one we voted for a few months ago was a good measure. If we could extend it and make it easier by a series of even more objective criteria, I think we would do a good job for our fellow citizens. We also have many examples that prove that banks did not automatically do so if there were no requests from borrowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u92	Madam Chair, Minister, in a recent interview, an investigating judge was currently drawing the picture of tax evasion. Major financial crime was identified as a major problem. Money laundering is estimated at 6 per cent of global GDP. This is in addition to tax fraud, the amount quoted for Belgium is 30 billion. The interested party points out one element in the amendment to the Corporate Code, namely the possibility of establishing a limited partnership. According to him, this is a factor that favours the creation of criminal structures. This provision allows for the creation of a company, and therefore for a VAT number to be obtained, without capital and, above all, without the need to verify the identity of the person. When coupled with trafficking in false papers, this provision provides great facilities for fraudsters to set up money-laundering companies. Mr. Justice Claise, since this is his case, cites the example of a limited partnership involving a businessman without the latter even being aware of this corporate arrangement. Minister, are you aware of this fear of the judiciary about the limited partnership? Has specific attention been given to this type of risk of fraud? Is there a check planned? Since the introduction of this amendment to the Corporate Code, have any records been reported about money laundering through these limited partnerships?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u93	Madam President, Ms Cornet, the new Code of Companies and Associations came into force for new corporations on May 1, 2019. Since the introduction of this code, Belgium has become more attractive and more competitive as a country of establishment for companies, and we have a simpler and more flexible company law adapted to economic reality. All legislation is used for criminal activities, and the public authority must react to it. At the end of 2019, the ISI observed that several recently created limited partnerships were engaged in MTIC (inter-community carousel) scams and frauds, or were simply seeking claims for unwarranted VAT refunds. In addition to this form of company, partnerships are also used for this purpose. As part of the VAT credit deductions made by the ISI since 1 January 2020, 40% of the companies were in the form of a limited partnership and 24% were in the form of a general partnership. Of course, the risks associated with these entities have been specifically incorporated into the analysis and detection system. This characteristic linked to the legal form is therefore a strong indicator for certain selections of control actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u94	Mr Minister, I understand that this provision makes it possible to have a regulation that makes Belgium more competitive and the law simpler. It is indeed very important to have facilities to be able to undertake and it is really important to simplify the task of entrepreneurs. In any case, you say that the ISI has reserved specific attention to these files. This means that there is a particular risk that you will confirm in this case. The ideal is always to simplify without opening doors to those who would like to misuse them. In any case, if the intention is to facilitate entrepreneurship, we must continue to monitor it so that we can control those who want to misuse it. And given this public address of this judge, you should be encouraged not only to evaluate but also to dialogue in order to establish criteria for effective control of limited partnerships.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u95	Mr Minister, today we were talking about the FinCEN Files. It was about reports from banks at the time, but now it's about lawyers. In our country, lawyers in many situations are obliged to report suspicious money flows to the anti-money laundering cell, including when assisting their clients in managing money, businesses and other structures. Following an article on the judicial investigation into the bankruptcy of a well-known group, well-known investigative journalists report that last year only eight lawyers made 11 declarations to the anti-money laundering cell. Of those declarations, only one proved useful enough to pass on to the court. Either that obligation is not sufficiently fulfilled, or it misses its purpose. Hence the following questions, Minister. How many reports of lawyers have there been to the anti-money cell in recent years? How many of those reports were prosecuted? Are there any pending cases? What was the financial impact of the reports that received a judicial follow-up? What solutions do you think can ensure that lawyers comply with the reporting obligations more strictly and correctly, in accordance with the spirit of the regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u96	The Financial Information Processing Cell, the CFI, received reports from lawyers in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively 4, 10, 8 and 11. Your question about the number of criminal prosecutions falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice, but I can tell you that the suspicious transactions that have been prevented from being transferred to the courthouse contain financial transactions for a total amount of EUR 5.6 million. Unlike some other obliged persons, lawyers do not always have an objective amount. As a result, as possible within the anti-money laundering law, they usually report suspicious facts or information about one of their customers without mentioning a specific amount. It is the CFI's competence to consolidate notifications and supplement them with financial information requested from others, such as banking institutions, exchange offices and notaries. Thus, a file that the CFI sends to the parquet will never contain only information from the initial notification. The legal framework exists and is sufficient. The figures have been increased since 2017, which shows that the anti-money laundering law of 18 September 2017 has an effect. The fight against money laundering and terrorist financing must, of course, be pursued by all those involved. In doing so, the supervisor, in particular the staff managers of the respective orders, has the important task of raising awareness and monitoring of members. In doing so, the supervisor can always rely on the legally foreseen cooperation with the CFI.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u97	Whether the change in 2017 is so effective, and whether or not the figures increase, I'm going to take salt with a grain. You are right to say that the figures are increasing, but the question is whether the figures reflect reality. I dare to ask a few questions from my gut. You are right to point out two aspects. There must be greater awareness by the staff manager in this case, so that lawyers also have to fulfil their social role and possibly make notifications. Secondly, the CFI may sometimes have to consider reminding staffers and lawyers of their social role. It's a double interaction. So it's not just the staff members who need to sensitise the lawyers. The CFI and the government, which should avoid money laundering, should also raise awareness among staff and lawyers in order to fulfil their social role. A double task, for you and for the Minister of Justice, but a task that we as a government must carry out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u98	Mr Minister, a few days ago, I looked at an interesting report which mentioned an experiment on the website of the FPS Finance. Apparently, through an online public survey on the new rules on VAT on e-commerce, it is intended to give all possible stakeholders the opportunity to comment and suggest on the new legislation. These comments and suggestions would therefore be answered. The aim is "to treat everyone on an equal footing and to get rid of the practice in which lobby groups appeal to their friendly cabinets to counter-launch and push their vision forward." Those are your words in the paper. That's a very interesting experiment. I can only welcome a culture of governance that leaves more room for participation and is more transparent. However, it does raise some questions. Mr Minister, could you give us some more information on the methodology used and the intended outcome? Will you make public all the comments you receive and your reasoned response to them? How will you do that and when will you do that in the legislative process? How many of these reactions have you received? Are there costs associated with this experiment, for example for staff deployment? How will you avoid that, despite the online public survey, lobby groups still contact their friendly cabinets in order to counter or not? Have any appointments been made with your colleagues? Will the government agree to that procedure, this new way of governing? Are you planning a similar experiment for other initiatives or are there methods other than online public survey that you will test over the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u99	Thank you, Mr Vandenbroucke, for your question and for your enthusiasm for the initiative. A notice has indeed been published on the website of Finance announcing this public consultation. Anyone who wishes can respond to a preliminary draft law on the basis of an online document, which has to go through the usual procedure before it is submitted to the Chamber for approval. It also clearly indicates what the law is about, what its impact will be and who will have that impact. All basic documents are therefore available and can be accessed. My goal is clear. I want greater transparency and equal and simultaneous access to legislative initiatives for all to ensure that the rules are known, but also that there is some public support for them. That is why the title of the announcement says: legislation for you, but actually a bit by you. As soon as the public consultation for this particular experiment ends on 11 November, a summary of all the responses received will first be provided. A publication of the individual reactions will not appear. We will bring together the responses and formulate an answer to them. The consultation was published yesterday afternoon. It is too early to take stock of the number of responses. I'm looking forward to it. I hope there will be some. The administration itself developed the online form. Three people are involved in the treatment of the reactions on top of their normal work. So there are virtually no extra costs. No one can, of course, be held responsible for the workings of any lobby groups. With regard to this public consultation, clear agreements have been made in my policy cell. It is important that this is an experiment which, hopefully, can be repeated after evaluation. For the time being, I will stick to this methodology, which has already proved its worth at home and abroad. I hope to be able to roll this out in the future for other projects as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u100	Thank you, Minister, for your clarifying answers. I understand that the summary of the reactions of the public survey will be made public and that Parliament can take note of this. I am very curious about the outcome of that. This is, of course, an experiment under very specific legislation. I hope that you can be a pioneer in applying such methodologies, or other methods that ensure greater participation and equal treatment of different actors in society and work towards acceptance, also in other policy areas and perhaps in cases that go a little wider than this very specific legislation. I think it is a very interesting experiment, but I would like to know from you whether that summary will be published and whether we will be able to take note of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u101	The summary will be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u102	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u103	Madam President, Minister, for this question we are going back to 2017 and the Summer agreement of the then Michel government, with a very important reform of our corporate tax. Its first two phases have already been implemented and the third phase is foreseen for entry into force in the year 2021. The third phase of this reform is also important, since it includes the reduction of the standard rate to 25% and also the complete abolition of the additional crisis contribution. In some places, here and there, questions arise about the explicit implementation of that third phase. Can you confirm, Minister, whether this third stage of the planned corporate tax reform will be implemented? Will all the measures envisaged be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u104	Madam President, Mr Matheï, the law of 25 December 2017 on corporate tax reform has been amended several times since its publication, including by the law of 30 July 2018 mentioned by you in your question. The changes made were mostly technical corrections. A measure was also removed, i.e. the sanction in the case of insufficient management remuneration, but that measure was already foreseen in the first stage of the reform. For another measure, the interest deduction limitation, the entry into force was brought forward by one year. However, I can confirm that the further reduction in nominal rates, additional incentives and budgetary compensatory measures foreseen for the final stage of corporate tax reform have all come into effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u105	Minister, your answer is quite clear: that third, important phase will become a reality. This provides a certain security for the companies which are also important to make certain investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u106	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Hedebouw's 55010388C, but I think that question should be put to Prime Minister De Croo. Mr Hedebouw is absent, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u107	Mr Minister, since the 2017 anti-money laundering law and the 2018 KB, companies, non-profit organisations and foundations have been obliged to register their final beneficiaries in the so-called UBO register. You can do that online via an application. The existing legal entities had to do the same before 30 September 2019. On September 23rd of this year, a royal decision was made by your predecessor with amendments and additional obligations. For example, companies, non-profit organisations and foundations must provide any document demonstrating that the information contained in the register is adequate, accurate and up-to-date. In addition to indicating the final beneficiary, each document must now be uploaded which shows that the information entered in the system is also adequate, accurate and up-to-date. First of all, what documents are meant exactly? Is a copy of an identity card sufficient or is there still a list of documents to be uploaded, such as the statutes? Secondly, is that mode of operation also translated into the online application? My last question has already been answered: there is clear additional explanation on the website of the competent Federal Public Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u108	Indeed, the new KB obliges all reporting agents of the UBO to attach, via the online platform, any document demonstrating that information relating to a final beneficiary is adequate, accurate and up-to-date. Those documents may, depending on the specific case, be a copy of the register of shares, the statutes, a shareholders' agreement, a notarial act or any other document demonstrating that the information provided in relation to an beneficial owner is adequate, accurate and up-to-date. The documents shall be accessible only to the competent authorities. The Belgian identity card only adds little when it comes to proving that the information provided is correct. For non-Belgen, the identity card is a useful document, as it allows to prove the existence of the person. The possibility to add documents online already existed. Each time an audit or an entity is added, a document can be loaded. Further documents can be added to prove, for example, information previously provided. The additional explanation was already added on the FPS Finance website on 15 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic294x.u109	Thank you for your answer. The fight against money laundering is important. The UBO register helps with this. We can only conclude that the obligations for SMEs give rise to some annoyance and the obligations require enormous efforts on the part of the associations. That is why I call on you to evaluate the system and to put its user-friendliness first. From your reply, I understand that you mean 'each document' which confirms the adequacy, accuracy and topicality of the information. There is therefore no need to add several documents.
