ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u2	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the King has written a letter this week. He would have taken the initiative himself, but you confirmed that the precise wording was done in consultation with the government. You gave your consent to that letter, which also makes you politically responsible for its content. As a great supporter of free speech, the King may write and quote from me what he wants, albeit in his personal name. In that respect an apology from his family is generously late, but certainly appropriate. However, that remorse should have come on behalf of the Belgian royal family. Everyone knows that these serious crimes date back to the period of the Congo Free State, when Congo was personally owned by Leopold II. By your approval, Madam Prime Minister, the King does not speak in his personal name, nor on behalf of the Belgian royal family, but on behalf of the country and the people, and perhaps soon at the expense of the people, because your consent also opens the door to reparation payments. Madam Prime Minister, do you think it is desirable, particularly at a time when everyone has to save and when the corona crisis is still bringing great financial challenges to us, that taxpayers should finance recovery payments for something from a distant past that has absolutely nothing to do with them? Perhaps you could also let us know how much money has flowed from this country to Congo since decolonization and whether you find it or whether it is well-spent. I have read that you are calling for an in-depth debate on Congo without taboo. Does this mean that you will also be addressing the horrors of decolonization in 1960? Will you finally make available the bulky and secret reports on this matter? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u3	On 30 June it was 60 years since the Democratic Republic of Congo became independent. The health situation meant that the festivities in Congo, to which the King and I were invited, had to be postponed, but we could not just let that birthday go. The King wanted to speak for the occasion and has chosen to do so in the traditional form of an official letter to his colleague, President Félix Tshisekedi. The message was addressed to all Congolese. The message came from the King himself, but the text was, of course, submitted in advance to and covered by the government, as provided for in the Constitution. In his message, the King expresses his deep regret for the wounds of the past and encourages the reflection that is beginning in our Parliament. It is indeed up to the parliamentary committee that will be set up in the next few days to look at the colonial past and how it affects our future relations with Congo. It's not about rewriting history, it's about better understanding and learning from it. That's what it takes to build our future. The mayor of Ixelles also wanted to commemorate and celebrate the 60th anniversary of independence in his congregation. I wanted to take advantage of this memorial to meet the members of the Belgian-Congolese community and listen to their concerns. It was a constructive exchange of views. As I said in my speech in Ixelles, the 60th anniversary of independence is an opportunity to learn how to deal with our colonial past, which, let us admit, is also characterised by inequality and violence against the Congolese. The work of research, truth and memory begins with the recognition of the suffering of the other. In 2020, we must indeed be able, like other European countries, to look back on that colonial past in all objectivity and discernment. That is precisely the subject of the work of the committee. As far as apologies or reparations are concerned, let us not throw everything into a pile and let us not anticipate the work of the committee. Let her do her work in complete serenity and through a constructive debate. We await the conclusion of this committee and the lessons that we can draw from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u4	Madam Prime Minister, you have exceeded your speaking time. I have also stopped Mrs Pas' speaking time, and now she has one more minute to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u5	Madam Prime Minister, when it comes to IS children, you say that these children should not be responsible for their parents' atrocities. However, when it comes to the misdeeds in Congo, it seems that this responsibility does not only turn to another descendant of the mass murderer in question, but even to all his compatriots. Madam Prime Minister, we do not need a committee in this Chamber to know that Congo was sucked out by the Belgian royal family and the French-speaking haute finance. The Flemings, who were themselves oppressed by them, had nothing to do with that. If there are any excuses or reparations to be made, it's up to that gang, to that royal house and that French-speaking bourgeoisie, but not to the Flemish taxpayer. Madam Prime Minister, you say you don't want to anticipate that committee. Before that committee starts, the Flemish Interest will, with all the democratic, legal means, oppose the fact that the Flemish should pay for reparations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, protecting democracy in Belgium and its citizens from national security threats is at the heart of the mission of State Security. However, as Pascal Pétry, number 2 in the press this morning, points out, this institution faces increasing challenges with increasingly small budgets. In addition to terrorism, the new breeding ground for which in recent years has been religious extremism and in particular Salafism, there are other threats, such as the rise of the far right, which seems to be arming itself and following paramilitary formations abroad, as well as economic espionage by Chinese military students who enrol in Belgian universities in order to make available to the Chinese State their knowledge acquired here. Meanwhile, new tasks are assigned to the State Security: to participate in the recognition of places of worship, residence permits, and soon to follow foreign investments in Belgium. In her last report, the State Security Service highlighted the impossibility, she said, of carrying out its tasks properly with the budget allocated to it. That is why it is asking for, among other things, a tripling of its budget and a doubling of its staff. Minister, could you let us know if you share the analysis of the State Security on its own situation? Are you considering, in the current difficult context, an increase in the budget allocated to this service? If yes, do you have an estimate of the amount involved? Are you considering an increase in the cadre of State Security personnel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u7	Mr Minister, my question relates specifically to the annual report on State security. This warns against an increase in extremist violence. Let me be clear, ladies and gentlemen: democracy ends where violence begins. The Flemish Interest also uses weapons, but democratic: the free word and the pencil. Sometimes when I see the acidified faces from the left, I feel like they hurt enough. My question is, of course, not about that, Minister, but about what is in the report. On page 10 we read that state security warns Muslim extremists who come with the flows of migrants in our country, while your government still opens the gates wide. On page 11 we read that the Security of the State is concerned about Islamists radicalising prisons in Belgium. What does the Belgian Government do? He even brings ISIS women here. In the Netherlands they are already a step further. Last week there was a big debate in the Chamber about Muslim extremists who own holiday homes in the Belgian Ardennes, where they set up jihad camps. Mr Minister, my questions are quite simple. Are you prepared to respond to the state's security demand for more money and more resources? We believe that security is important and that the security of the state, but also the military security service and the federal police, should be given more resources. More importantly, are you prepared to finally take the recommendations, state security warnings to heart, tackle Muslim extremistism and stop being so naive by leaving the gates of our country wide open and bringing jihadists here? After all, they radicalize and only convince more people to reject our way of life and commit attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u8	Mr President, Minister, our intelligence services, the Security of the State, play an essential role in protecting our democracy, our rule of law, our citizens, whether they are against internal or external threats. Our Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks had shown how weak these services were, and how important it was to provide them with new means and benchmarking, i.e. a comparison with similar states by size or type of threat. Today, however, we are far from the point of view. Of course, there have been significant efforts in terms of the effectiveness of our intelligence services. Of course, some means have been granted. But we see that the threats are still there, very present, and that they have even diversified. The Islamist threat is still there, it takes new faces through new forms of Salafism. There are also these ties between the Diyanet and the Millî Görüş, which is a radical extremist movement. Far-right militias seem to be growing in our country. And then there's this Chinese economic espionage. It is true that on this point it is particularly shocking to see students welcomed to our universities, financed by our universities, who return to their country to give technology and information to the Chinese army which, if necessary, could use it, why not, in the repression in Hong Kong or against the Uighurs. There are also other threats: cyber threat, the 5G that will arrive and facilitate espionage. Our intelligence services therefore need additional resources. Minister, how are we going to give them that threefold of the resources they're asking for? How will we improve the legislative framework? For example, the criminalization of espionage today does not seem sufficient in relation to this external espionage. How are we going to ensure that these students are eventually screened, if necessary, to prevent the reception we offer them from being used in the end to amplify the capacity of repression in their country?Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u9	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the question could have been put to the Prime Minister, since it is the National Security Council - not the one dealing with the VOCID crisis but the Ministerial Security Committee - that must address this issue. More and more information is coming to us. An alarm cry is being launched today by the State Security - this is not the first time - but also by the outgoing chief of military security. In addition, there is a series of information that regularly reaches through the media about activities of the far right, military trainings but also other extremisms. Minister, even if the current situation is very difficult, we need to look at in a comprehensive way at additional means for these two services, so that they can work together in a coherent and efficient manner. There is an urgent need to put on the agenda of this Ministerial Security Committee the response to the inquiries made by the two departments at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u10	Mr. President, Minister, this morning the State Security was commenting on a report on the main threats in our country. This report explains that the threat of Islamist terrorism is decreasing in Belgium but has not disappeared. We must continue to be vigilant about this form of terrorism and not leave space for hate preachers to express themselves. I also think that we must continue to question a prison system where this Islamist radicalization has its nest. The novelty of this report lies elsewhere and must also mobilize us. It is in the appearance of a concrete and disturbing extreme right threat. According to the report, isolated authors galvanized by far-right ideas are increasingly likely to act. They are all the more dangerous because some people organize themselves at the level of an international network and even go so far as to arm themselves and train in camps in Russia or in the countries of the East. They are physically preparing for a war they imagine "racial". For years, these extreme right-wing groups have been awakening in Europe or elsewhere and they are categorized as the main threat. Today, this threat is present in Belgium. Minister, the far right kills. She killed in Norway when Anders Breivik murdered 77 people. She killed 51 people in a mosque in New Zealand, she killed 11 people in Germany recently. In our home, she killed in Antwerp in 2007, when an extreme right-wing activist murdered a woman of Malian origin and a two-year-old girl. Minister, by what means does your government intend to fight against this rise of the extreme right-wing terrorist? What means are being put in place to monitor people who are arching and returning from training camps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks I have asked many questions about extremism and radicalism to our trade ministers and the answers have always been laconically reassuring, as if there were no problems. Today, the State Security report on the advance of the far right was published online, but also an old acquaintance reappeared, especially the radical Islamic terrorism. Left here likes to point to the right and right likes to point to the left. The N-VA is clearly opposed to any form of violent extremism and wants to put a stop to it. Radicalisation is taking place in front of our own eyes and it does not seem to be at the top of this government's agenda. What the report does not even highlight is the fact that at this very moment more than 399 radicalised ex-cons are on the loose, without the necessary control. That's exactly the number of employees the State Security has to provide us with intelligence. We have to do it. [[.]] Last week we witnessed a Palestinian peaceful demonstration calling for Jews to be murdered and, as if that were not enough, we imported violent extremism yesterday. Our government re-entered three IS women yesterday, along with their six children. The State Security spokesperson stressed that these women did not play an innocent role. Why they are not tried there and punished completely escapes me. The government says that we should be able to control them better so that we should not leave them there, but better bring them back in. If this government chooses to do so, it must make our security apparatus resilient and robust enough and provide it with the necessary resources. All this happens at a time - a colleague just reminded me - that our good Flemings have been stuck on their foreign destinations for the past few months (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u12	Please note the speaking time. Mr Vandenput is going to set a good example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u13	Mr President, the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the well-known threats from the terrorist Muslim corner, which we certainly must not forget, there is now the emergence of extreme right-wing violence on our own soil. In the annual report of the State Security, it says that the far right increased its acceleration in 2019. We have known the hate speech for years, but now there is a possibility of extreme right-wing attacks in our country. According to State Security, violence is normalized and actively prepared within the extreme right-wing circles. We also see that this is an international phenomenon. Last year there were the attacks in New Zealand with 51 deaths and recently also in Germany, Finland and the US. That's where violence is used. I am deeply concerned about the call for action and violence on the basis of reprehensible ideologies, Minister. I am not just talking about the extreme right, but also about Salafists and other even more extreme groups who find their origins in Islam. They are all equally dangerous and they seek each other out as targets and thus undermine our entire legal system, our entire society. I have three questions, Minister. Firstly, the report is a matter, but does the security of the state also have a plan ready to make these phenomena visible and address? Secondly, do you have any knowledge of facts that actually took place on our territory, where it was not just preparation? Thirdly, 25 right-wing extremists were included in the common database. What is the result of the inclusion in that list? Are they being actively followed today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u14	Minister, the State Security Report is very clear and warns us of two important developments, which it even calls communicating vessels. The Security of the State warns us, on the one hand, for a further radicalisation of extreme right-wing groups in our society. It even says that she is very concerned about it. Extremely right-wing groups seem to be arming themselves more in recent years. For the security of the State, this urge for arms is part of a preparation for an inevitable war, according to it, between races, religions and peoples. Colleagues, that is worrying. On the other hand, the report points to the growth of a new Salafist movement, which does not take arms like IS or Al-Qaeda, but rather tries to bring extreme ideas to the man, woman or even child through communication techniques. Colleagues, both movements result from a polarisation of our society, fed by ideas of hatred, violence and lack of respect for our democracy. We must put a stop to this. Mr. Secretary, the State Security report is here now. It reminds us in all transparency of the situation ashes is today. What lessons do you draw from the report? How can we address these challenges for our society?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, of course an annual report on state security, which is published transparently on the web, is news. That used to be different. For that reason and for a number of other reasons, apart from any criticism we wish to have, we can congratulate the State's security. I shall begin with those congratulations because I could forget them at the end of my speech. Transparency is one of the reasons. Secondly, there are awareness briefings and the fact that the Security of the State makes all kinds of people aware of a number of dangers, the "consciencialisation," as it is called. This is the case, for example, in cooperation with scientists from third countries, who may come from a non-democratic regime. This is the case, for example, in the area of 5G. These are all matters on which the State's security puts its emphasis in advance. This is also the case, for example, with the education given and the warning given by public authorities about interference in elections, as has happened in the United States. As far as I know, at least we did not suffer from this in the 2019 elections. There is also SOCMINT capacity to monitor the Internet and cooperation with other services in the Joint Intelligence Centers, which met 20 times in 2019. The security of the State is therefore not a grand organisation, of which one does not know what is happening. She clearly puts herself in the media in a modern way and is proactively dealing with a number of problems that concern us. It is important to underline this. Mr Metsu, even people with whom we have been in the majority for four years do not stop pointing out a lack of resources. Of course, the security of the State itself is a party asking for additional resources. I would like to remind you once again that we have been able to give 20% more human resources to the security of the State in the past period of government, and I am not talking about the government today, which, apart from dealing with the corona crisis in current cases, has been able to give 20% more human resources to the security of the State. Effectives have thus increased by 20%. You can say that this is very little, but if there were suddenly 20% more people in the hemisphere here, that would stand out. One must also absorb those people, which means that one must train them and make them useful. We must not be able to train them alone; we must also be able to recruit them and find them on the market. During that period, therefore, we have made maximum use of new resources, including technical ones. We have given the State Security a number of instruments in the field of technical infrastructure. For the sake of courtesy and security, I will not go into that further, but they allow her to invest better in the succession of all kinds of suspect and possibly suspicious people. To be honest, I am proud of the Belgian system. The law on intelligence and the way in which the security services are accompanied by investigators, by the R Committee and your committee specifically responsible for monitoring the security of the State and the committees serve as an example for many other countries. You say that there are not enough resources, and I endorse that. I have always stressed throughout the electoral campaign and during the subsequent negotiations that we need more resources for the justice and security of the state. If a government agreement were to be reached in which my party would participate, that point will of course be raised again. This will in any case be pursued, as was the case in the past legislature. Three tasks concern the security of the State. There is religious extremism. Any extremism, any radicalism can, at some point, become violent. That is why we must anticipate. Indeed, being extreme or radical is not in itself defended. Freedom of expression obliges us to become acquainted, even if it is against our will, with radical opinions that do not necessarily please us. However, to say that, in recent years, the Sûreté has not followed well those returning from Syria or Islamic extremists seems to me to be a drift. Colleagues, making people believe that we have repatriated three women who could have been tried in the Middle East is a misinformation. That's the least we can say! These women were in Turkey and that country does not want such people to remain in its territory. In doing so, we either accept their return by organizing their accompaniment by members of our police, or we accept that they will be deposited somewhere in nature with the risk that they will return to our country without it being possible for us to incarcerate them. So we had no alternative. I don't dare to tell you about the case of El Bakraoui in 2016. In any event, if Turkey does not wish to keep this kind of person in its territory, we are obliged to organise the return of the latter when they are nationals of our country. I stress here that these are expulsions and in no way repatriations. As far as the far right is concerned, I am somewhat surprised at the tone used in certain questions or statements in the press. Already in 2016, the Sûreté report indicated that the far right was a potential threat. This was also the case in the 2018 report (cf. page 27). Today, three pages of the report deal extensively with the problem by referring to the various attacks that have been committed in the name of the far right, usually by singlely fighters, in countries such as New Zealand, Norway, the United States or Germany. It is clear that our country cannot be immune to the risk of radicalisation and violence on the far right. It is therefore right for the Sûreté to impose on us the extreme prudence which is necessary in such cases. Are we aware of preparations? If I knew, I wouldn't tell you. Do people from our country participate in military or paramilitary camps abroad? I spoke to you about this last week in connection with Mrs Soors de Groen's question. With regard to espionage and interference, if you agree, this is a problem that we could take into account in the new Penal Code by making espionage punishable. However, it is very interesting what the State's security is doing in the area of alerting. When we use networks or new technology or when we work with foreign university students, we must be twice as careful. The global world is something we all wanted. You would not want to know how many technical devices you use at a low price come from countries that are not always completely democratic, not to mention the country that was the subject of the question to the Prime Minister just now. In this sense, it is therefore a good thing that the security of the State gives us maximum warning and, as we have done recently in the Security Council, to which Mr Flahaut referred, tries to take this technology into account. For example, in the area of 5G, the government has adopted a policy that is intended to immune us to the risks of espionage, blackmail and disinformation that could result from the use of networks and technology from countries that are not very cooperative in the field of non-spying others. I will end with a few general reservations about questions that you have asked me, particularly Mr Vandenput. There is indeed a plan, namely the Plan R or Plan Radicalism, which is regularly updated, drawn up, among other things, by the Security of the State and which as precisely as possible informs all services about how radicalism should be followed. Do we have operational tools? Yes, we have the Local Task Forces (LTFs), which act both when it comes to radicalism of a religious nature and radicalism that has to do with extreme right-wing or extreme left-wing groups. When I was younger, that was not so long ago, it was particularly extreme-left that terrorism was very active, and we must always be afraid of it. We are therefore in the process of following up these phenomena, both in terms of preparation and follow-up. It is surprising to all of you that I say that to those who would think that we do not take far right seriously enough that when at some point a list of radicalized people became public in prison, it turned out that there was also a person of extreme right-wing origin and that we do indeed have 25 persons in our database who are of extreme right-right and who are followed in the same way as the persons of extreme left-wing and religious extremists. Mr President, I would like to thank you for the length of time you have given me, and I will listen carefully to the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u16	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. You are right to stress the transparency exercised by the State Security through this report. It's all connected. You rightly complain that your budgetary demands at the time of the elections or negotiations are not sufficiently implemented. Unfortunately, on the government side, there is a lack of resources for legal bodies such as justice, prisons and State Security. True transparency might make it easier to guarantee such budgets. I would have preferred to obtain from you some precise figures as to the needs to be met financially for the security of the State. For the rest, I thank you for the overview of our protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u17	Mr. Secretary, I'm actually disappointed. I would have preferred to have firm, concrete promises for more resources for state security. We are here to maintain a Senate that costs a great deal more than the entire operation of the State's Security. That's very remarkable, isn't it? I am disappointed in the colleagues from the left. The left always has the pretence of having a better morale than the right. Actually, it's worse. Left has a double morale. When it comes to Black Lives Matters violence, it's because they don't have enough opportunities. When it comes to Antifa violence, it's minimalized. When it comes to Muslim extremistism, those people will undoubtedly have had a bad childhood. But when it comes to the far right, people scream murder and fire. No double standards for Flemish Interest. Any form of extremist violence must be observed and addressed. But we do not participate in fake news and the perception that is created here. 25 people from the extreme right are being watched, but almost 2,000 Muslim extremists are being watched. But people here pretend that the greatest danger is the far right. That's just assaulting the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u18	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. In particular, I note from your presentation that the threats have never been as diverse and numerous as they are today. It is true that in a number of cases we are taking the necessary steps. But in a series of other cases, we do not take them enough. It is this warning cry that the State Security is launching today. Minister, I ask you to do as in other areas, where your government has been able to act with the support of a majority of parties (police, white blouses, reception of refugees,...). I ask you to put in place an urgent supplementary budget to ensure that State Security works, protects our freedoms, our democracy and better protects us from certain threats. We are at the heart of our fundamental freedoms. Our democracy is threatened, especially by external threats. It is very important that we can respond to this today and that we do not wait for the establishment of a next government to check whether we actually have the means to do so. It is at the heart of the key issues for our country. Minister, I ask you to come with a coherent budget on this matter to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u19	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, thank you for that answer and clarification. It is clear that our democracy is under threat. The alarm signal launched today by the two services is a repetition of other signals that have been launched at other times. This democracy is threatened and, increasingly, the far right is manifesting in a decomplex manner. This appears in the press and is likely to be trivialised. We cannot accept this banality. From a political point of view, therefore, we must provide a concerted response, strong by giving these services the human and technical means they demand to enable them to better combat these scourges for democracy in a determined and, if possible, irreversible manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. We join by stressing and recognizing the important work of transparency that has been done. Another element is that our individual and collective security are the fundamentals of a good living together in our society. On this point, we are very close. On the other hand, I will never make statements affirming the existence of hierarchies in the security measures to be taken. It is important to stress this. However, certain specificities of extreme right-wing terrorism in 2020 should also be assessed and recognised. Moreover, in the remarks made this morning, this sentence is very appealing. It states that "individuals, activists of the far right, operate in an environment where extremism is increasingly accepted, where the threshold is ever lower in terms of the expression of extremist identities". This last sentence also asks about our role, as politicians, not to convey what is the nest of this terrorist soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u21	Thank you, Minister, but unfortunately the answer is not surprising. It seems like some sort of corona fatigue has crept into this government. You say that the previous legislature increased the budget by 20%. That's right. With N-VA in the saddle. What you are not saying is that in 2019 the budget fell again by 7%. N-VA demands more budgets: for the defence, for the security of the state, for the police, for real justice. That is, as far as we are concerned, a real core task, not the distribution of free train tickets. If my plea hasn't worked out here today, I suggest you go out with them. I am sure that if you see in the streets of, for example, Anderlecht how things really are, you will wake up. Our parliamentary questions and reports clearly do not do that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answers. For our party, it is quite clear that any form of violence must be condemned and dealt with strictly. Whether it's from the extreme left, from the salafists or from the far right: in the ground all extremists are the same, both left, salafists and right. Mr van Grieken, I must say that I am very sorry about the way in which you are clearly putting the extreme right-wing violence under the mat. You minimize that. Either you won't read that report, or you still have to read it, or you don't want to read it. That's three possibilities. Meanwhile, Shield & Friends is in your party. Partymates of yours are having tea with a killer like Assad in Syria. Those are the facts. You feed your party the extreme right-wing violence here in Belgium. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u23	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u24	(...) [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u25	Mr Vandenput, you must always stop at the applause. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u26	Minister, the discussion on budgets alone is not the only solution to this problem. The question is more fundamental. How do we stop polarization? Justice has an important role to play in this, but all the links in the security chain also have a role to play. For example, we believe that prevention in schools, in the media, in a family context, together with civil society, is a very important part of this. I call on everyone, all the ministers who are competent to do so, not to wait a second longer and to promote and defend the discourse of mutual respect for democratic values. Working together is the key. All in the bath, I'd say. This is how we serve the people and our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u27	Colleagues, I would like to emphasise the following, because I also follow the media. It is not allowed to ask questions about specific cases or names in plenary. It's about the friendly settlement as an instrument. The people who follow the media can imagine that. This is not allowed here in the hemisphere. This is so prescribed by Parliament. I have also informed Mr Hedebouw and Mr Vandenbroucke of this and I am doing so to Mr Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u28	Mr President, Minister, how is it possible that in our country it is still possible for people with a lot of money to simply buy off a trial? How is that possible? I will not mention any names, Mr President. I might be talking about an ex-CEO of a big state telecom company. However, that is not what I am talking about. I might be talking about someone who made $523,000 a year in this telecom company. It may be that I am talking about a wealthy textile family that has been involved in fraud cases in Belgium for 30 years. However, it is important not to mention names, Mr President. Let's talk about the bill of sale. How is that possible? How can someone put 100,000 euros on the table to buy off his trial? Surely there is a difference between those who have EUR 100,000 in their bank accounts and the other citizens who do not? So the latter can't go to court and arrange their trial. There is no more equality before the courts, Minister. This question poses a fundamental problem: a rich textile family gives 70 million euros, but the one who does not have such a sum cannot redeem his trial. Ten years ago, a guy takes an outdated muffin from a trash can, the courts say he stole and he gets six months in jail. And this super rich family can just redeem their lawsuit. Minister, do you find it normal that in Belgium, the more money you have, the more you can escape a trial? Or do you think that all citizens must be equal before the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u29	Mr Minister, since 1984 our country has been able to escape prosecution, usually after a financial crime by putting a sum of money on the table. I am referring, of course, to the buy-back law, because that is what makes the law possible. One can pay off his sentence. Recent news reports show that this is still being used in a formidable way. There is an example of a well-known entrepreneurial family that has been involved in large-scale fraud cases for some time, which has once put EUR 50 million on the table and now puts EUR 70 million on the table again, in order to avoid having to go to court and be punished. I will not talk about a specific matter, you may not, but there are so many examples to give. They all have something in common. It is usually about large-scale, serious fraud, fraudulent practices that sometimes have prison sentences of up to 20 years. Those fraudsters get away with it by paying millions of euros to avoid being punished. Colleagues, that buy-back law is pure class justice. Only cheaters who can afford it will get away with their fraudulent practices. That is completely unfair. Those who cheat must be brought to justice and punished, regardless of the thickness of their wallet. For the sp.a it is therefore very clear that the buy-back law should be abolished. Minister, do you agree with me that the buy-back law should disappear?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u30	Mr President, Minister, 'Eighten months of prison for shoplifting cookies at the store', 'Crimal punishment for hungry thief stealing tongue fillet', 'Effective punishment for theft of USB sticks', 'Strike with delay for teenagers stealing pistachios', 'Theft of corn costs elderly three months with delay', 'Man risks jail time for theft of 3 euros', 'Month cell for theft Cara Pils', two cans. We have been able to read these titles in the newspapers in recent years. We also read other things, which I cannot fully quote, about the former CEO of a public authority paying off prosecution for EUR 107,000. A carpet family has a record of 70 million euros. Minister, do you feel comfortable when you hear these examples? Whoever is rich, who is powerful, who holds a high position, who is a wealthy athlete and, for example, lives in Monaco, does not have to go to court and can buy off his case. However, anyone who steals two cans of Cara Pils or a tongue filet must appear before the criminal court and is sometimes subject to effective fines. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that is class justice. Whoever claims it's not class justice, I'd like to hear the counter-arguments. Minister, that is why many people do not trust justice. That is why there has also been a very broad consensus among the population to abolish the buy-back law. That's gotta stop. Mr Minister, I have just one question for you: do you think the examples I have indicated are fair?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for not being able to answer the questions that you put so clearly. If you ask me whether a court ruling is fair, I must not reply. You ask me if I am in favour of abolishing the buy-back law. I haven't read them yet, but there seems to be a note from your chairman. If that is what it says, it will certainly have to be discussed in the government negotiations. I can only say that, in the previous government negotiations and during the previous legislature, we adapted this law to the observations of the Constitutional Court. The judicial authorities were particularly inquiring to keep it because they are very often faced with a lack of evidence and with a reasonable period of time which makes it impossible to punish, in particular, serious financial crimes in the correct way. In this sector, impunity is also a problem. Secondly, when we talk about the rule of law and the absence of texts submitted to the judge, I must nevertheless tell you that the version of Rule 216bis which this Parliament approved on 18 March 2018 provides exactly that every proposal for a transaction between the prosecutor's office, on the one hand, and the suspect, the accused, on the other hand, must be submitted to the judge for his approval. Therefore, it is wrong to claim that this method is part of class justice, which is removed from the judge. On the contrary, the latter must certify and verify whether the transaction is legal and proportionate to the offence committed, precisely in order to maintain the balance between the facts and the penalty - in this case, the transaction. Indeed, Mr. Van Hecke, you apparently wanted to indicate that certain penalties for minor acts were disproportionate. Anyway, that's what I understood from your speech. Ladies and gentlemen, it will always be difficult for politics to agree to such laws, and it is therefore not so difficult to counter the kind of arguments you have used. Although I could do that, I will not resort to it because we need to have this debate properly. These people are getting pretty badly caught in their wallets. Everyone here has the mouths of alternative punishment, albeit not all to the same degree. However, if you were to question a parquet magistraat who pursues this kind of fact, I think he would say that this is the way of punishment that allows justice to be given to certain facts. I think he would say that, but of course I don't want to take his mind off it. Once again, I am open to the debate on the possible abolition of that law. As far as the matters to which you were not allowed to refer are concerned, I will not refer to them by name either. However, I would like to tell you that the important issue raised in the press today is still the subject of discussion. The Attorney General has told me that nothing has yet been decided. I'm as transparent about this as I can. The other case, which allegedly had to do with a case of misuse of insider dealing, was currently before the courts. It is likely that the decision will be taken on 15 July. So much for the information I was allowed to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u32	Minister, is it normal for someone who has 100,000 bullets in a bank account to be able to redeem his trial, even if he is ex-CEO of a big company like Proximus? That's the question I asked you. That is the point that is asked of you. Because other citizens don't have the 100,000 bullets to pay. That's the problem. It's always the same people who can redeem their lawsuit! It's not random that we can buy back. No, you have to have money for that! HSBC, Omega Diamonds, all these companies... in all these cases, it's because people have money that they can redeem their case. And that's proof that it's class justice. Those who don't have the money can't buy it back. They can't land before the judge to say, "Listen, 107,000 euros, and we don't talk about it anymore!" That is the problem in your system. The directive you gave, the directive of the College of Attorneys General, explicitly says that for people who do not have a lot of money, you do not advocate a criminal transaction, and directly penalties. When there's money, we negotiate transactions. When there's no money, we don't do it. And that, Minister, is going to create a total mistrust, rightly, of the entire population, of all the workers, of all the people who do not have 107,000 euros to spend like that. This mistrust is justified. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u33	Mr Hedebouw, your time has expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is very good that you have replied that you are open to a debate on the abolition of the buy-back law. We really need to talk about that. Colleagues, do not underestimate the indignation of the people. We are currently experiencing the worst economic crisis since the Second World War. We spend massive taxpayers' money in our economy, in our companies and in our people, to ensure that the country can move forward. So there is a heavy invoice hanging over our heads, which will have to be lifted. That will only happen if everyone does their part. So we can no longer accept that large tax fraudsters would avoid their punishment by putting money on the table. Thank you, Minister, for your openness. I assume we will have the debate soon enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u35	Mr President, Minister, your answers are well known. First of all, there is the argument that those involved have to go deep into their pockets and pay a lot. However, paying 100,000 euros is 3% for those who would potentially have an annual wage of three million euros. That's pocket money at that level. Secondly, we know that the procedures take a long time. That has been the case for ten years. There has been a committee of inquiry in the Chamber, which has shown where all the shortcomings lie. Many recommendations have not been implemented either. Mr Minister, I would like to argue in favour of the following. Instead of picking up eggs for money and quickly cashing in in order not to have a heavy and long trial, the Justice Department would better invest in a real top team of investigators, in people and in know-how. After all, serious tax fraud is a serious matter, and we have to fight it with very heavy weapons. We must invest in this, which will in the long term bring a lot of money. That's what I'm arguing for. So get rid of the payoff bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u36	Mr Minister, I choked on my coffee this morning and I think I was not alone when I read the news that the College of Attorney General in Namur took the stand not to employ seven route checks of the federal police in Walloon territory, simply by refusing to sign the present protocol agreement. My clog broke a little bit anyway. After all, I know from our local administrators how frightfully slow the approval procedure is. It takes blood, sweat and tears before such a trajectory control can be started. And then someone with authority on the public forum pleads for less flashes. Whatever the reason for the ruling, it doesn't really matter. The only thing that matters is the figures: the number of road deaths on Belgian roads has fallen for years, but since 2019 we have not been proud of this - the number is increasing again. It is also my deep conviction that there is often a problem of mentality at the root of reckless behaviour in traffic. When we discuss road safety in the Committee on Mobility, I look at Mr Vandenbroucke's report on road safety, we certainly do not always agree on everything, but we usually agree that an increased chance of delivery in many cases is one of the keys to safer traffic. And then there's the plea for, at least indirectly, impunity. I realize that the public prosecutors have a lot of autonomy, but that statement at least makes political policy hypothetical. Minister, do you have any questions about that statement? Are you prepared to address the parquets on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u37	Minister, the question may seem anecdotal or incidental. However, it highlights a greater structural difficulty for the Department of Justice and its underfunding. Last week, it was the world of youth judges that drew an alarm by recalling that, due to the lack of means and places available, they were going to relax the young offenders presented to them. They have implemented this since the beginning of this week. I am not even talking to you about the business courts, for which I am also expressing a great deal of concern in the light of the upcoming bankruptcies and the difficulties that will have to be managed with the business world in the weeks and months ahead, and where one can hope that there will be effective management. Today, it is in the area of road safety that we come back to you with the King's attorneys who, across the territory, refuse to promote the outbreak of a series of radars. When I myself was Walloon minister in charge of this matter in particular, I had also wanted to multiply these tools, which, let us recall, are not intended to crack down on the citizens in order to bail out the state funds. These different radars are announced each time and whoever wants to behave properly will never be punished. On the contrary, it is a way of punishing those who do not respect the rule and put their lives, but above all, even more serious, that of others in danger. We were able, as a result of the mobilization of prosecutors, to turn some of the offences into regional administrative fines because we cannot allow a sense of impunity to develop. How to convince people to stop acting like drivers putting the lives of others at risk if, at the same time, every time they commit offences, including important ones, they are not prosecuted. Minister, what follow-up do you intend to make to this appeal from the public prosecutor's office? Can we hope that they will have the necessary means to guarantee the safety and therefore the lives of the citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u38	Mr President, first of all, the good news: in 2019, Justice processed 4.8 million traffic files. That's an increase of over 500,000 files in a year. Since the start of the Crossborder project, the government has been able to count on more than 150 million euros of revenue per year and at the moment 93 percent of traffic fines are collected electronically, so there is hope. This means 496 million euros in 2019, of which more than 60 million euros for the Walloon Region. The increase in the number of fixings, speed limits and route checks, inter alia by the Regions, increases the workload of the parquets. It is this problem, which is currently under discussion and on which the Prosecutor of Namur has made statements. At the request of the Attorney General de la Serna van Mons, who holds the portfolio of traffic crime, there will be a consultation with Valerie De Bue, ministre de la Sécurité routière next Monday 6 July. Good coordination between prosecutors, police and regional authorities is indeed provided for in the "camera law" because the legislator considers it important for the integrated functioning of the criminal chain. In recent years, I have been making every effort, through my department, to provide justice with an efficient system for the settlement of fines, which I call the crossborder system. This system deals without difficulty with a huge number of fines but, in addition to small offences, these devices also find many more serious offences which therefore require an appropriate response from our prosecutors and courts. We are convinced that the necessary coordination and coordination between the justice system and the regional authorities will rapidly lead to efficient cooperation. It is in this sense that the letter from the College of Attorneys General of 23 June 2020 addressed to Walloon Minister De Bue should be heard. You can be sure that on my side, and as far as possible, I will contribute to this good cooperation so that things go in the direction that justice would prefer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For the sake of clarity, this is not about the pennies, about the money that is being collected, it is about people's lives, about road safety. Again, the parquets partly have their own autonomy. They are also faced with their own reality. You referred to it. But they are at the service of society. Members of the court are not judges who are totally independent. They are directly under your authority. You have an impact on that. I think you should talk to them. You also speak to people who have lost relatives in a road accident and who are left behind. You also know the dramas. As far as road safety is concerned, let us not tolerate any wrong signals, Minister. That someone with authority, especially in the south of the country, who at no time has to answer to the electorate, makes such a statement that political choices hypothesize and that actually allows impunity, I really have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u40	Minister, thank you for the information you have brought to our attention. I imagine that with your teams, you will take the necessary steps to ensure effective follow-up. As agents of the field, in the diversity of our functions, it is difficult for us to respond to this citizens' demand for greater security and to see in parallel that the world of justice is taking the brake by hand. Indeed, he informs us that, in some public prosecutors' offices, 70% of the offences are not only prosecuted, but are not even covered. This shows an unacceptable sense of impunity for malpractice. Therefore, the computerization of the mechanism that you have stressed is indeed a plus, but it must be increased. And then, let's be creative in how to collaborate between levels of power! In the future, we could design local authorities and police areas that would finance the installation of radars and keep the recipe for them in time to amortize the initial investment. This approach would meet the expectations of citizens who demand more road safety in their village and neighbourhood. Moreover, this will not harm the finances of the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u41	Mr President, Minister, all over the world, conservative forces are fighting hard against the emancipation of women, against sexual and reproductive rights, against women's right to dispose of their bodies. The global crisis of VOCID-19 is still likely to exacerbate this situation. Representatives from 59 countries issued a statement calling on Governments to protect sexual health rights, including reproductive rights, and to promote gender equality in their response to the health crisis. I am pleased that our country, through your signature, has joined the declaration. You know, however, that on the agenda of our sitting we have an important text on voluntary termination of pregnancy. There have been months of debate, about 15 committee meetings, experts have been heard, the Council of State has been seized twice. The CD&V Group Leader announces that his party will use all the provisions of the Rules to protect the rights of the parliamentary minority. Minister, we are asking here and today not to protect the CD&V, the Vlaams Belang or the CDH, but to protect women's rights and, above all, not to give in to blackmail. As we face an unprecedented health crisis, an economic crisis, a social crisis, we need strong measures that must be taken for the citizens to recover better. At that time, what do we do? Women's rights will serve as a currency of exchange in an attempt to form a government. I say no. I think it's shameful. You don't wear a suit about women's rights. Minister, in the international context of the VOCID-19 pandemic, what are your commitments to strengthen our country's efforts on sexual and reproductive rights abroad as well as in Belgium? I know that you are on the side of those who defend the emancipation of women's rights. I know that you are on our side to improve the conditions of the interruption (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u42	Mrs Tillieux, you will understand that parliamentary work is separate from the government's position. I am not going to speak on this afternoon's work. You probably know my opinion on this. As you said, the pandemic affects all of us but affects some in a disproportionate way. Indeed, the most vulnerable are the most affected. In developing countries, however, access to sexual and reproductive health and rights services is sometimes reduced by 80 per cent. We will clearly ensure that the progress made in the past decades is not lost. Moreover, it could never be accepted that this pandemic would give some conservative voices the opportunity to question all of this progress. You mentioned the letter I signed with 36 colleagues a few months ago. We now have sixty countries to sign it. This clearly confirms our country's position for many years and my policy in this regard. Belgium's funding to specific forums, such as UNFPA, the World Bank and UN Women, has been continued as in previous years. This year, however, I have decided to allocate an additional budget of EUR 5 million for the financing of projects that are trying to safeguard as much as possible access to sexual and reproductive health rights in situations that are very difficult today. A pandemic is never an easy time. We note that the vulnerable are the most affected. But it is also a time when we must confirm our commitment to our position in Belgium and also in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u43	Mr President, Minister, of course I find your efforts very commendable here and elsewhere. Besides, I'll tell you this week, I read a book. A wonderful book, of which you are the author:The century of the woman. I'll read you an excerpt. I quote you, when you talk about She decides, the movement that you have created, and that is not pro-abortion, but you say: "All young girls and women who wish to do so should have access to safe abortion." Mr Minister, I would therefore like you to sign this book to all women; women from here and elsewhere, who aspire to freedom of choice, freedom to have access to a voluntary interruption of pregnancy without risk, in the best conditions of care, respecting their rights and the emancipation of women. I learn, via a tweet, that a party president threatens to leave the negotiating table because a text could be voted on today on the voluntary termination of pregnancy. This is unacceptable. I therefore strongly recommend reading this (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u44	The Minister may be able to offer all members a signed copy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u45	In this hemisphere there are a lot of local directors, a lot of mayors, ships and city council members. In recent months, during this crisis, we have really been at the centre of the crisis. People have asked us a lot of questions. They could always contact us to get answers to the many questions. Local administrators have done a lot of work, along with the civil servants. They have also taken many initiatives during that period. They have taken initiatives to support the local economy, initiatives to help vulnerable groups, and they have also ensured that associations still have a way to survive. In the meantime, we're in the tail of the crisis. Local authorities will play an even more important role in this. That's good. Local authorities are close to those citizens. This concerns the possible local lockdowns. Local governments and mayors must join forces with ministers. Local authorities are little or no involved in decision-making and are often the last to be informed of various initiatives. Then they take responsibility for themselves, like the mayor of Deinze. He was forced to wear mouth masks in the grocery stores. He wasn't the first mayor to decide that. A number of others have already preceded him. Great was my wonder that he was whistled back. I do understand that there must be clarity and that decision-making is the best uniform, but on the other hand mayors also want to protect their citizens. How does municipal autonomy on safety and public health relate to federal decision-making? What can you do to improve cooperation? Can you also clarify why a duty to wear mouth masks was not prohibited in a number of Brussels municipalities, whereas this is the case in Deinze, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u46	Mr De Caluwe, you are a member of the Open Vld, a member of the government that has co-approved all the measures and a member of the government coalition in Deinze. [[Laughter]] The truth has its rights. The federal phase is also requested by local authorities, both from the mayors and from the governors, and with the approval of Minister Bart Somers, member of the Open Vld and member of the Flemish government in his capacity as Deputy Prime Minister, proclaimed on 13 March 2020. Firstly, it has been stated that the measures taken must be implemented in a uniform and coherent manner throughout the territory. At the request of the regional governments, the National Security Council specifically asked me to remind the governors of the importance of the uniform and coherent application of the corona measures, including in Aarschot, where your former chairman is mayor and some establishments dared to break the directives and organise a lockdown party. On 15 May, at the request of the National Security Council, I wrote a ministerial letter to the governors to ensure strict compliance with the measures and not to allow local authorities unilaterally to relax or tighten federal measures. I would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that prior consultation with the federal services can be carried out through the governor if a local government believes that a derogation is necessary for specific reasons. As far as the city of Deinze is concerned, the governor has initially played his mediation role vis-à-vis the mayor. The National Crisis Centre also pointed out to the mayor the incompatibility of his decision with the higher legal standards. The mayor did not wish to comment on the proposal made to him and the governor then destroyed his decision. I have already stated that I have a blood connection with all our mayors and your group leader, the mayor of the city of Kortrijk, can testify to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u47	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u48	Of course, I respect local autonomy and I have the greatest appreciation for the mayors with whom we have always tested the measures, both in terms of markets, events or the reopening of shops. Through the governors, my fellow mayors are kept constantly informed. However, in a federal phase, approved by your colleagues from Open Vld in the federal government and your deputy prime minister, it cannot be allowed for local authorities to take administrative measures contrary to federal measures. I have the right and reason to have the full support of the nuclear cabinet, of Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo, of the Federal Government, of Mr De Block and of the state governments led by our Prime Ministers and of which the Minister of Home Affairs belongs to your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u49	Mr. Secretary, you really need to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u50	I cannot allow a social bubble of 5 to be allowed in city X and one of 20 in municipality Y. We cannot allow social distances to be 2 m in one municipality and only half a meter in another. It cannot be done that way, and it is therefore important to act clearly. Imagine what confusion would arise if all 581 Belgian cities and municipalities applied different regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u51	You could have respected your speaking time if you had omitted publicity for the members of Open Vld. You're at four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u52	Mr President, I would like to stress the inevitability of uniform measures throughout the Belgian territory, which were also approved by your party Open Vld. As an administrative coalition partner in Deinze, I am sure you will help to follow this line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u53	I must remain objective and thank you again for that free publicity. However, the counter is ticking further and that is why I am giving Mr De Caluwe a double speaking time. In any case, this cannot be repeated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u54	I will try to stay within the minute, Mr President. Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. I understand, of course, that uniform decisions are needed. That, of course, is what people expect. I also support your view that in a municipality one should not be stricter than at the federal level, but in the tail of this crisis some kindness would have been in place for the mayors, who have had difficult times. They mainly want to protect their inhabitants. I don't think that's wrong. I note that you are very strict with regard to the city of Deinze, but I have not heard an answer to my question as to why you are so lenient with regard to the four Brussels municipalities where such a ban applies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u55	The incident is closed, Minister. Parliament has the final say. I now turn to Minister De Block. You are happy today, Madam Secretary, because you have become the happy grandmother of a grandson. That grandson weighs 3,6 kilos and is 51,5 centimeters tall. He listens to the name John. If that's not a signal for Mrs. Kitir. Good luck and congratulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to you. The health situation we know tends to stabilize, which is excellent news. The fourth phase of deconfination began yesterday, and we are confident that the entire population will continue to remain vigilant in order to avoid a rebound in the pandemic. Indeed, in order to combat this virus, it is important to continue to respect the barrier measures and protocols that have been established. However, we can only seriously consider ending this crisis when a vaccine is available. I read in the press that the Higher Council of Health was to give you, this Thursday, its opinion on the vaccination policy against coronavirus in Belgium. Minister, in the context of the discovery of a future vaccine, has Belgium already concluded an agreement with a research laboratory, as is the case in several countries? Will there be vaccines for everyone? If this is not the case, can you give us guidance on which target groups will benefit as a matter of priority? Will citizens belonging to these target groups be obliged to be vaccinated? When will the vaccine be available? Finally, will citizens have to pay money to get vaccinated?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u57	Mr. Chair, Mr. Bombled, we are developing a strategy for vaccination against VOCID to be ready when the vaccine is available. The strategy is based on two pillars. First of all, we must ensure that our country is supplied. For this, we are working at European level. Our country is a member of the steering group. A team of negotiators is in charge of negotiations with companies. We are also exploring the field and discussing with various companies that are trying to develop a vaccine. I also work in consultation with all the pharmaceutical companies concerned which are located in Belgium. These consultations include clinical studies and vaccine production. Clinical studies on VOCID vaccine are under way in Belgium and abroad. According to the most optimistic scenario, a vaccine could already be available this fall or in the first quarter of 2021. We already know that several companies would like to produce their vaccine in Belgium. It is also important for our vaccination strategy to consult the sector. I am thinking in particular of whether vaccination should take place every season or once, or to what extent the production will be allocated over time. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that Belgium has a favourable climate for vaccine development. The second pillar of our strategy is to determine the best way to vaccinate our citizens. Among other things, it is the Higher Council of Health to recommend which of the priority target groups. He was asked for advice. SARS-CoV-2 has affected some groups more strongly than others, such as the elderly. It is on the basis of the opinions of the Higher Council of Health and multilateral bodies such as the World Health Organization (WHO), but also of the Agreement on Trade, Development and Cooperation of the European Union that it will be determined who should have access to the vaccine first. As we have more specific information on this vaccine, we will be able to develop the exact modalities for vaccination, as well as a reimbursement scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. We really hope that agreements will soon be reached at European level, quite quickly, as is the case for Germany, Italy, France or the Netherlands. It is important to be able to look calmly at this exit from the crisis. You also talked about target groups. It is true that priority groups could be identified if vaccines are not available for everyone at the same time. These groups could affect people over the age of 65, people with a sick organ, or people with a disease that is shown to make VOCID-19 fatal, and of course our caregivers. Finally, it is important that this vaccine is available as soon as possible. You mentioned autumn 2020, which would be a very good thing. And if there is a refund, it will be even better!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, our country's caregivers are angry with you. They showed it to you. They're also waiting for a signal. They turned their backs on Mrs. Wilmès during her visit to St. Peter's Hospital. Since that day, you have finally started negotiations to discuss their claims with them. It is clear that the 300 euros voted here last week are not enough at all for the people who are on the ground. Our corona heroes are tired, Madam Secretary. One in five also says they want to leave the sector. They cannot exercise their profession as they wish, they cannot take a holiday. The run is already very large, and he risks getting much bigger. A few weeks ago, it was said here that 200 million was released in order to meet certain requirements of the sector. A number of years ago it was agreed that serious wage increases were needed in the sector. Today, only one fifth of that promise has been fulfilled. We know it takes more than 200 million. So my question is as follows. Is the government finally almost done? Have you opened up the budgetary room to really send a signal to the people on the ground that what they have been through is very serious and that we really appreciate their work? They were already on their gums, and now it's worse. I believe it is time for the government to send a signal to them before 21 July. You promised. Where do you stand with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u60	Mrs Merckx, the bill on the allocation of resources to the White Blouse Fund was passed in the House on 18 June. The government is in the process of taking technical implementing orders concerning its increase to hospitals, as well as the payment of funds to the social Maribel for employed home nurses, nurses and caregivers. Similarly, we are working with INAMI on the drafting of executive orders for independent home nurses. In addition, social dialogue is under way. I work with the Minister of Employment, Nathalie Muylle and the Minister of Budget, David Clarinval. As with the previous social agreement, we are looking together with the sector at the needs of pay, but also at the conditions of employment of care workers. We are certainly taking up the commitment to meet it in the future. The participants have all committed themselves to ensuring that the consultation is conducted in a constructive manner and in complete serenity, so that no announcements are made in advance. I'm gonna stick to that. We are working well and will communicate about this together at an appropriate time, as well as about the budget that will be made available by the government. We'll keep our end of the bargain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u61	Minister, I hear you are respecting the negotiations, which is quite normal, but I do not understand why decisions are so slow. Indeed, it is high time today to be more concrete. Weeks ago, I already asked for the amount we were going to put on the table. We know we need at least 800 million euros. Of course, it is a lot, but it is necessary to identify these means. I would not understand, nor would the actors in the field, that a signal is not quickly given and that additional resources are not quickly released, because that is what this is all about, in favour of people who work on the front line in hospitals and in order to better treat patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u62	Mr President, Minister, 3.5 months ago we were at the beginning of a sanitary crisis. Since then, we have been asking a great deal from the healthcare sector and the political world has done a lot to get through that sanitary crisis. It was all hands on deck on every level. We have often talked here in Parliament about care staff and hospitals. Today, I think we should also pay attention to general practitioners and primary care. The general practitioners were expected to set up triage centres, which they did with a great deal of goodwill, despite the agreements on remuneration. In the initial period, in the first phase between 15 March and 2 May, doctors were asked to work performance-oriented, which means that they received a remuneration per patient treated. From 4 May this decision was reversed and doctors receive a lump sum per hour, a fee, so that they do not lose too much income. I think the latter is a good thing. However, we note today that payments are still not in order. Madam Secretary, what about the start-up costs for the triage centers? We are now 3.5 months after the start-up and the GPs are waiting for that. Some doctors even use personal financial resources to continue working. I was informed at the committee meeting that a second royal decree should be issued. When's that gonna happen? What about the personnel costs? When can the general practitioners expect their remuneration?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u63	Mrs Farih, it was indeed necessary to install triage and purchasing centres. That was new. We have therefore set up funding for this very quickly, because it was important to be able to examine our infected patients quickly in order to avoid the further spread of the virus. There was the KB No. 20 to get that funding. I came to the COVID-19 Commission with that. There are allowances for research and sampling, a flat-rate allowance for the coordinator of the centre, which is also a doctor, and a concession for the nurse support and administrative support of the centre. I have checked and can inform you that all these allowances for the operation of the triage centres have been paid by the insurance institutions until the beginning of May. It amounts to EUR 33 million. Then there is a one-off fee per center for the start-up costs. For that, it is true that another KB is needed. That has received an opinion from the Council of State. The KB will be published early next week. In the meantime, we have set up a simpler financing system for the reimbursement of costs from 4 May. Pending the publication of this new scheme, the RIZIV already pays back the invoices submitted for the activities of the care providers within 24 hours, I am told. A total of EUR 66 million will be invested in the operation of the triage centres. I would like to remind you that we had to work very quickly and that we have done a great deal to honour the efforts of the general practitioners to install the triage centres and make them work as quickly as possible. We have done other things for the general practitioners, such as the reimbursement of telephone consultations. In the meantime, we have already billed over 6 million of these consultations. We have also had to make a new arrangement for this. Everyone's doing their best. We certainly appreciate the efforts of the general practitioners. We hope that the triage centres will continue to exist, because if there is a second wave, we certainly need it. Therefore, a simpler funding system was created for the following months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u64	Madam Secretary, I am pleased with the answer I have received today. I am also pleased that politics is aware that we need to prepare for a second wave. I understand from the open letter from the general practitioners that the payments from 4 May have not been as good as I hear from you today. I certainly want to have discussions about this and come back to you in committee if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u65	Minister, the VOCID-19 pandemic and the resulting containment have had major impacts on employment in particular and the economy in general. In the space of a few days, telework - which was the exception - has become the rule in many companies. In this regard, a recent study by Acerta reveals an increase of almost 13% in the number of employers who have decided to pursue a real telework policy within their company. It refers to compensation paid to teleworkers, but also to the hours worked and the balance between private and professional life - with the sacrosanct right to disconnect. If we all agree that telework is undoubtedly a new form of work that will rapidly develop, we will have to pay particular attention to the negative consequences it could have in terms of organisation and well-being at work, but also from an economic point of view. On this last aspect, it can be said that downtown businesses are the first to be affected by the absence of commuters attending their commercial establishments. In short, telework is very positive for some employees and for mobility, but it can also have negative effects on both workers and the local economy. Of course, the challenge is to find a balance between these two aspects. For us, this is clearly an opportunity for both the private and public sectors. Minister, my questions are as follows. From an economic point of view, do you have information and figures that confirm or invalidate the feelings of traders? Have you set up a working group to monitor this implementation of telework within companies and administrations? If this is not the case, are you considering doing so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u66	Mr Bihet, thank you for your question. Since the beginning of the crisis, a generalised telework system has been set up in many companies and recommended in the guide drawn up by the social partners to limit the spread of VOCID-19. As you have said, telework brings workers a lot of benefits, such as less waste of time, stress, fatigue due to travel, and more flexibility and autonomy; but also disadvantages. Lack of physical separation makes it difficult to differentiate between private and professional life; less contact between colleagues; a sense of alienation and isolation; and a combination with child care. To answer your three questions, as regards the economic aspect, I would like to inform you that the SPF Economy does not currently have a study or concrete figures on the economic impact of the increase in telework. A working group has not been set up for this purpose by my services. My apologies, but it wasn't a priority when the VOCID-19 crisis broke out. However, since telework will continue to be part of our way of working, it is necessary to make additional rules or initiatives. That is why I will call on the social partners to make an evaluation of the past few months and to make proposals for the continuation of telework in an economically and socially justified way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, we will be very attentive to the monitoring of the economic impact of teleworking and to the results of this social consultation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u68	The Foreign Minister will respond on behalf of the government. Thank you for your understanding of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u69	Minister, it is not clear from the weather, but the summer has now begun and a lot of people have been looking forward to a holiday in their own country or abroad. However, we must not forget that the virus is still present in our country. While there was a summer earlier among Europeans, certain non-Europeans seem to be getting back into our country. In this crisis, Belgium was one of the worst affected countries in the world. It is good that we again have some freedom to enjoy the summer, but it is also our responsibility and our duty to ensure that all possible precautions are taken to avoid a flare-up. You have already indicated that our country will be very cautious and that the preparations for letting the non-Europeans back in will not be completed by 7 July. In addition, if I understand correctly, only non-Europeans from countries that are doing at least as well as the European countries will enter our country. Even though not everyone can enter our country, a lot of people, who have followed the rules very strictly, remain concerned. In any case, the risks are not caused by the virologists and the general practitioners have already raised the alarm a month ago. We can enjoy the summer and we even have to do so, but at the same time we have to recognise that there are risks in reopening borders, even when it comes to borders within Europe. A few months ago, one of the reasons why our country was so badly hit was just the uncontrolled power in and out of our country. Minister, we can only ask that we do better this time and ensure that we are better prepared. After all, we now have the opportunity to do so. Actually, I have just one question for you. What measures will you take so that we can safely meet the summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u70	Mrs Depraetere, for the Belgian tourists who wish to travel abroad, I can repeat the following points for you. The travel advice of the FPS Foreign Affairs Office is drawn up with the wider Belgian community as a target group. Especially in popular tourist destinations, my services try to collect precise information through official sources, which can give our citizens a better understanding of the measures being taken. Fellow countrymen who are concerned about the state of the epidemic in the region to which they are going on holiday should check the travel advice on the website of the FPS Foreign Affairs. It is now more important than ever that countrymen closely follow the instructions of the local authorities and also register their trip on the website travelers online. Currently, travel is only allowed within the Schengen+ zone. On 30 June 2020, an agreement was reached at European level on 14 countries outside that zone, allowing for gradual opening of borders. The Belgian Government evaluates with experts when and under what conditions Belgian tourists will be allowed to travel to those 14 countries, namely Algeria, Australia, Canada, Georgia, Japan, Montenegro, Morocco, New Zealand, Rwanda, Serbia, South Korea, Thailand, Tunisia and Uruguay. The following conditions apply to tourism to Belgium for foreigners. Allow me to repeat that tourists from the Schengen+ zone have been allowed to travel to Belgium without additional conditions since 15 June 2020. As far as tourists from outside the Schengen+ area are concerned, a decision will soon be taken on the list agreed at European level. Access to the territory is subject to the authority of the Foreign Office, while border control is a competence of the Home Office. Health measures are, in turn, subject to public health control. Filling in a passenger locator form is imposed as an entry condition for all arrivals from outside the Schengen+ zone. The form is almost ready and will have to be completed and signed before boarding. The purpose of the form is to identify who is on the plane and to collect contact and stay data in Belgium, as well as to inform travellers of the sanitary measures to be implemented. Saniport will process and use that data if a positive case is reported. The data will be destroyed after 28 days. As far as quarantine is concerned, public health is working on a 14-day system of self-insulation. The main principles remain: 14 days of self-insulation for all travellers from outside the Schengen area. An exception could be made for countries on the updated EU lists. In conclusion, Belgium is a beautiful country for tourists from Belgium itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u71	Thank you, Minister. You referred above all to measures for people who come from outside Europe. My point was that there are also many risks and dangers within the European borders. You say travelers to the FPS Foreign Office's web site can surf or register their trip. That is all well and good, but important precautions at the moment are temperature measurements, detection, testing where necessary and insulation where necessary. I have heard very little of that in your reply. The least we can expect after the period we have been through is that there will be a thoughtful approach to avoiding a second wave. With a trip to register on the web site of the FPS Foreign Affairs I fear we will not get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u72	End of Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u73	The document bearing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1387/1) The piece with the candidate lists was delivered to you. (1387/1)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u74	The two youngest members present are invited to attend the counting of the ballot. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present are invited to attend the vote. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u75	On 25 June 2020, the plenary adopted the text calling for the establishment of a special commission to examine the management of the VOCID-19 epidemic by Belgium, No. 1394/1. On 25 June 2020, the plenary adopted the text on the request for the creation of a special committee responsible for examining Belgium's approach to the COOVID-19 epidemic, No. 1394/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020, I propose that you appoint the actual and alternate members of this Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020, I propose that the permanent members and alternates of that committee be appointed. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. In accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, appointments of members of committees shall be made to the proportional representation of political groups. Pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, appointments of members of committees shall be made on the basis of the proportional representation of political groups. The group presidents sent me the names of their candidates. The chairmen of the political groups have informed me of the names of their candidates. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, in accordance with Article 157 of the Treaty, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. I hereby declare the nominees elected. N-VA Membres effectifs/Vast members: Kathleen Depoorter, Frieda Gijbels, Yngvild Ingels. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Peter De Roover, Joy Donné, Wim Van der Donkt. Ecolo-Green Membres effectifs/Fast members: Kristof Calvo, Barbara Creemers, Laurence Hennuy. Membres suppliers/Deputies: Georges Gilkinet, Julie Chanson, Evita Willaert. PS Effective members/Vaste leden: Eliane Tillieux, Patrick Prévot, Hervé Rigot. Alternate members/Plaatsvervangers: Ahmed Laaouej, Hugues Bayet, Éric Thiébaut. Flemish Interest Membres effectifs/Fast members: Barbara Pas, Dominiek Sneppe. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Ellen Samyn, Marijke Dillen. MR Membres effectifs/Fast members: Mathieu Bihet, Michel De Maegd. Alternate members/Plaatsvervangers: Nathalie Gilson, Emmanuel Burton. CD&V Effective members/Vaste leden: Nawal Farih. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Sammy Mahdi. PTP-PVDA Effective members/Vaste leden: Sofie Merckx. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Raoul Hedebouw. Open Vld Effective members/Vaste leden: Robby De Caluwé. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Bram Delvaux. sp.a Effective members/Vaste leden: Karin Jiroflée. Membres suppliers/Alternates: Jan Bertels. I was asked to take account of a motion for a resolution which should first be dealt with in plenary because several members of the committee to be set up also want to take the floor on this item on the agenda. After that, the commission can be set up. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u76	I would like to make a request to the plenary on the eighth item on the agenda. This Bill No. 158/1 to 12 deals with the early termination of pregnancy. I'm asking for an opinion from the Council of State. The Council of State has already examined this legislative text, as approved in the committee. On this basis, the CD&V Group has tabled some 40 amendments. Other groups have also tabled amendments on this subject. I asked the Chamber once again to allow the Council of State to give its opinion on the amendments. That has happened, and we thank them for it. When we read that advice, there are still legal questions and reservations. Questions remain about the criminality of those who want to prevent or be too critical about abortion in public statements, and there are problems with freedom of expression. There are still problems with the non-penalty of those who want to carry out abortion and themselves completely ignore the conditions as they stand in the proposal. Then there remain problems regarding the non-penalty of people who perform abortion and who are not doctors. Then there are still problems with evaluation and registration. For these legal questions and reservations, the CD&V Group has tabled new amendments. Other groups have also tabled new amendments. This discussion includes criminality or non-penalty. Criminal law must be extremely precise, so that people know the risk they face when they put certain behaviours, whether or not they comply with the law. In a sensitive area such as this, it seems appropriate that legislation should not take any risks. Mr President, I would like to send all these opinions back to the Committee on Justice so that, on the basis of the thorough legal work carried out by the Council of State and the dozens of amendments tabled in plenary, we can have a further debate. I regret that I did not find a majority for that. I therefore have no option but to ask the Council of State for its opinion on these new elements, based on the Rules of Procedure, which allow me to do so. Mr President, I would like to ask the opinion of the Council of State on all the amendments tabled in plenary on these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure. As you know, the request for an opinion announced by Mr Verherstraeten can be dealt with by all the political groups. I would like to stress once again: in principle one Member per group, for a period of five minutes. This is an important matter, so I will certainly have the necessary flexibility, but try to stick to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u78	Mr President, this is indeed an important matter. Questions may be asked as to how this bill was drafted. It is said that it has already been spoken through. However, hearings have never been held in the committee responsible. The text was therefore closely linked, which is also reflected in the first opinion of the Council of State. Mr Verherstraeten has now rightly raised the outstanding legal issues. Many questions and concerns remain open, while it is an important, heavy issue. Moreover, the question arises as to whether, in view of everything that is currently happening, people are waiting for such a proposal to be adopted here. In addition, there is no Flemish majority for this very important and heavy ethical proposal. Flemish opinion doesn't ask for it. I find it very unethical that the current situation is being abused to push such a thing through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u79	Mr President, we have been working on this issue for nine months. We have dealt with it in five committees. We have conducted hearings under the previous legislature of twenty experts and actors in the field. We have already obtained two opinions from the Council of State. The arguments were exchanged on both sides. We receive the letters where we can see these arguments. I don't think anyone's gonna change their mind anymore. The case is ripe and it is now time to succeed. We're talking about a context. Let's talk about it! During the crisis, women experienced even more difficulties than usual, particularly in relation to sexual and reproductive life. Today, we must guarantee their rights, guarantee them the freedom to dispose of their bodies. No one will ever have to resort to GVI, but we want to ensure that it can be done in the best conditions for those who want it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u80	Mr President, Mrs Tilieux will speak on behalf of the PS, but I would like to announce our request. We hope that this request for referral to the Council of State will be the subject of a nominative vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of State is not here to save time. This is the third time his opinion has been sought. Isn't that shameful? It is known that the Council of State is complaining of an overload of work related to VOCID-19, the many measures that have been taken. Today, therefore, the Council of State is under pressure. Yet the party of the Minister of Justice decides to exploit the Council of State for political purposes. It's just unacceptable! You're on the same path as Theo Franken who did so with other courts when he was Secretary of State. It's just unacceptable! The opinion of the Council of State has already been sought in previous legislatures. The PS did, of course, too. But when you're in the minority, you have to bow to the sense of democracy. When we have a majority who has received the opinion of the experts, who have taken these opinions into account, who has agreed to modulate the rule, who has agreed to modulate the text, we must respect it, especially when it comes to strengthening women's rights because women, Mr. President, are probably the largest minority in the world. Mr Verherstraeten, you said in committee that you were going to protect the parliamentary minority. In the Rules, there are rules to protect linguistic minorities, but there are no rules to protect parliamentary minorities, the N-VA, the Vlaams Belang or the CD&V. In doing so, you do not respect democracy. You do not even respect the Council of State and, worse still, you do not respect citizens! I would remind you that this is the third time that amendments have been tabled, knowing that the amendments that you are tabling today include the question of whether the words 'unmarried mother' should be replaced by'married wife'. I would therefore really like to hear your explanations on each of your amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports Mr Verherstraeten's request for the opinion of the Council of State. I have read the amendments and they are a number of justified arguments on which the Council of State should certainly shed light. We are talking about a very important dossier in which a number of offences are introduced. There must be sufficient certainty that it is all correct. There's no such certainty today. Read the opinion of the Council of State on a number of other amendments. There remains a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty. It is a very important debate. We must not forget that it is about life and death. I would like to bring that to your attention again. It is about a very far-reaching extension of abortion legislation. Members of PS, you might say that there could be a majority in this House, but we still need to see that. There is no such majority in society. In Flanders there is no majority to push this proposal through, and I even doubt that this majority exists in French-speaking Belgium. I refer to a poll by La Libre Belgique which clearly showed that 65% of the population is opposed to this proposal. La Libre Belgique is a newspaper that mainly has French readers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this debate must be conducted in a serious manner in a fully-fledged, full Parliament, in which all Members of this House can participate and where everyone must have a say. It must not be used in this backdated Corona Parliament in which only a handful of Members of Parliament are allowed to participate, although I see that a number of groups allow a lot of people to participate, against the agreements, but that aside. Finally, I would like to make a comment on Mr Laaouej. Ladies and gentlemen of PS, a few weeks ago your group removed a certain proposal from the agenda of this Corona Parliament. If I am not mistaken, it was a proposal on mobility. You got that off the agenda by arguing that it is far too important to deal with it in a limited Parliament and that it should be dealt with in a fully-fledged Parliament. Well, if there is something that should certainly be dealt with by a fully-fledged Parliament, then it is a proposal that is about life and death.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u83	Mr President, I shall leave the floor to my comrade Sofie Merckx. I will just make two small remarks. If I understand correctly, today the opposition can constantly refer to the Council of State to block a law. I heard that signal from the CD&V. From now on, you can expect a ping-pong game with the Council of State. While I was a new Member of Parliament, I was told that this remedy could take place up to once or twice. Now it's open bar! All laws will therefore be subject to continuous review by the Council of State. They'll be stuck all the time. Therefore, count on us to exploit this case law that has just opened up in the context of anti-social laws and laws that constitute violations of women's rights. Mr President, I would also like to refer to a right that you have. Article 98.2 allows you to request urgency, five days at the level of the Council of State. Of course, I can only encourage you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u84	That is what has just been done. One does not need an introduction to give someone the floor. In principle, one person per group is given the floor. Mrs Merckx, you can use the remaining time, but I would say one person per group. We'll see what we do after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u85	Those who submitted this proposal were extremely patient. The file was widely discussed in committee. It all started in 2018 and we saw two references to the Council of State. Today, we lose patience. We are witnessing a real blockage of parliamentary work and an abuse of what the Council of State serves. Mr Verherstraeten, you fail to say really what the Council of State has said, namely that it is for the woman to dispose of her body, in accordance with the European Convention. This was the most important message of the Council of State. It is not because there is no government that Parliament should stop working. Decisions have already been made here. The Health Care Staff Fund was approved. Today there is a large majority here to meet the rights of women, rights that they do not have today in full. The Women's Council, the feminist organisations, the women in need of abortion do not have a full right to abortion in our country. That is what we want to answer. The question itself comes from the field. It's a matter of respect for women. You want to do everything you can and call all hands on deck to return to the times when the Catholic Church was able to decide what women should and should not do. All we are asking for is respect for the choice of the woman who wants abortion and also respect for the choice of the woman who does not want abortion. That's what it's all about, respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally regret this state of affairs. When such an important ethical debate, in which this Chamber has the tradition of letting everyone vote in conscience, becomes the subject of political games, it is scandalous. Then any one of us who joins in would have to be ashamed of himself. This is completely unworthy of politics. Mr President, we started talking in 2018 about termination of pregnancy. We heard 20 experts at the time. There have been hearings for weeks. In 2019 we did that again and we discussed it again for weeks. The proposal now before us has already been adopted twice in committee by a large majority. Even the Council of State says in its opinion: "This is up to the politicians to decide." Well, ladies and gentlemen, politics has already decided. Twice already. The fact that we are now forced to participate in games of this kind, while we are talking about 500 women per year in difficulty, and we are sending them abroad when things get difficult, is scandalous. To those who play these games: Shame on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u87	Mr President, we asked a few months ago to send our amendments to the Council of State and this was supported by several parties. I do not see why today we would not support the CD&V's request to refer its amendments to the Council of State. Some say that the debate is closed, that everything has been said and that we only have to vote. Several here refer to the twenty experts who were interviewed, but out of these twenty experts, only four actually stood in favour of extending the deadline to 18 weeks. Even yesterday, more than 2,600 caregivers, including many obstetric gynaecologists, many nurses and midwives called for this text not to be voted as it stands. They call for abortion for no medical reason not to be extended to this 20-week period of amenorrhea – half of the pregnancy. This call from more than 2,600 caregivers cannot be sent back with one back of the hand. You say there's a majority in the House. That's right, she's arithmetic. But it is necessary to hear the call of very many citizens and look at the polls and I am not sure that there is a majority among the population in favour of this extension to the fifth month of pregnancy for an abortion without medical reasons. At European level, more than 85% of countries have a time frame similar to ours at present. From the beginning, we have been open to complete decriminalization for women: more punishment, more prison. We have also been open so that we can take special account of painful situations that may occur after 12 weeks of pregnancy. But this does not justify the extension of any voluntary termination of pregnancy for medical reasons up to 18 weeks. This goes too far and first for medical reasons. We will therefore support this referral to the Council of State. Moreover, I was reading at the moment a white card written by a colleague from the MR expressing loud and clear, by means of several arguments – relaying in this the call of these more than 2,600 caregivers – that, for him and others, parliamentary work still needs to be refined and that we cannot legislate lightly and – from a point of view I share – that we can reach a wider agreement to move forward, while remaining particularly attentive to the medical situation of these women.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u88	Finally, I must say, Mrs Rohonyi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u89	Mrs Fonck, I have a scoop for you: Parliament represents the population. Therefore, when you say that this text is not supported by it, that is not true. Indeed, eight parties – from the left to the right, from the north to the south of the country – supported this bill. And you can't go back to that, whether you like it or not. Of course, you have the legal right to seek the opinion of the Council of State – it is even your most legitimate right. You can use this dilatory manoeuvring to infinity. However, we were talking about ethics right now. Do you consider your approach to be moral? This question arises all the more since, in order to do so, who do you need? From the far right!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u90	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u91	Mrs Fonck, I have listened to you; I would like you to do the same with me. Your manoeuvre is also, as you know, disrespectful of the institution of the Council of State, which has already pronounced itself twice on this text. Moreover, I have read your various amendments. What do they bring to those on which the Council of State has already ruled? We've already asked you the question. My colleagues and I would therefore like a very clear answer. You invoke this hypothetical possibility of requesting an abortion beyond 12 weeks, because you still do not accept that the time limit be increased from 12 to 18 weeks. At one point, you must accept the choice that has been endorsed in committee twice, as my colleague, Jiroflée, has just pointed out. You also had two weeks to table these amendments. You are waiting today to do so, at the same time as we learn in the press that the chairman of the CD&V, who is the custodians of these amendments, considers this to be a matter of government. It is true that we need to form an emergency government. We need to find lasting and urgent solutions to this economic and social crisis. We need to find solutions to the budget deficit. In what way, today, is blocking this breakthrough, which must be significant and historic for women's rights, going to allow us to form this government tomorrow, suddenly? I would sincerely like you to answer that question. I also find that your manoeuvre is purely dilatory. I also do not understand that you are not uncomfortable with the fact that you consider it useful to impose your ideological point of view. As we know, historically, you have always been opposed to the issue of abortion, when precisely the framework that is proposed here through our bill allows everyone freedom of choice, regardless of their convictions. Each is given a framework for the use of abortion in conditions that are safe from both a medical and a legal point of view. That is the work of the legislator today. It is not to serve the dishes to the federal negotiators because they feel that it hits their conscience. The dilatory manoeuvre that you are using today undermines our conscience and particularly the conscience of our fellow citizens who are looking at us today and who find your process deplorable and unworthy of the parliamentary institution that we represent. However, I would like to remind you that in doing so, you are postponing by several months an important vote for women who, during the crisis, were confronted with difficulties which this text proposed important answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u92	Colleagues, I'm going to consult you. I am applying the Rules of Procedure. If the Chamber has no desire in that... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u93	Mrs Dillen, please, I am speaking. I'm going to make a proposal to the Chamber before you start interrupting me. I am applying the Rules of Procedure. All the groups have expressed their views on the opinion which is to be asked again to the Council of State on a number of new amendments tabled. The Rules of Procedure are simple: if at least 50 Members support it, it is actually an automatic one. Then it's automatically acquired. That is what the Rules of Procedure say. The Chamber must give its opinion on this, but in order not to have any discussion about the way in which the Chamber gives its opinion in these difficult times, it is normal to sit and stand up, so that Members can be counted. Those who support the proposal will have to reply 'yes' at that time and then we can objectively proceed to the counting of Members. Yes, Mrs. Pas, otherwise it's not objective. I do not want to enter into a discussion about this and that and I also know that, if we are to organise a vote, the Members of the Chamber who are not here should at least be given time to be informed that a vote will be taken. I am therefore going to suspend the sitting for half an hour in order to prepare the installation for the vote and so that all Members are aware that there will be a vote at one hour. We are not dealing with the substance of the matter, we are dealing with a shipment to the Council of State. Those who have asked for it have been able to express their views. If we want to do a second round now, we will do a second round. Mr Verherstraeten asked for the floor for a personal statement. Someone else will want to answer that. If there's going to be a second round, that's true, but I'm not really in favour of that. I'm not for that. Why should we systematically deviate from the Rules of Procedure? Everyone has been able to say whether he agrees or disagrees with this and ultimately the Chamber decides. However, I would like to say that at some point a parliamentary assembly must be able to speak out. Participation is an important principle, but the fact that an assembly speaks at a given moment is an equally important principle. When I look at the history of this text, I see that he has had a fairly long treatment and that he has gone to the Council of State twice. This has been asked twice. Although it can theoretically, it could never have been the intention to delay a vote repetitively and endlessly. That's not what the lyrics say. Parliament should consider this and look carefully at its own Rules of Procedure, because the endless repetition of an opinion request could imply that it would in theory be impossible for a majority in Parliament to give its opinion at any given time. You may think I'm out of character with this, but that's not the case. After all, the chairman of a parliamentary assembly has the right and duty to point out to that assembly that, over a certain period of time, we must be able to vote with respect for the procedures. I told you just now, we need to be able to make a statement after participation. Having said that, you are asking for the application of the Rules of Procedure in its present form and I must respect that. I do propose not to run a second round because the opinions are known and we already know who's going to say what. I know that some things were personal, but everyone has been able to express their point of view. Mr Verherstraeten's question concerns the new amendments, Nos. Mr Van Hoof, rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Hoof on his excellent report. 54 to 56 from Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u94	Mr President, I believe that there is also an amendment from the N-VA Group for which we would like to ask for the opinion with the usual 30-day deadline. Mr President, you have not fallen out of character at all. I have been addressed personally here a few times and I have been put in the mouth that I haven't even spoken, but I want to comply with what you suggested. So I will not ask for a second round and refrain from commenting. I will make that comment when the debate is held here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u95	Amendments Nos. Amendments Nos 48, 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53 by Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Verherstraeten 54, 55 and 56 by Mrs Fonck and Amendment No Mrs van Peel's 57 amendments are all new ones, which can be submitted to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u96	I would like to refer to another request for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u97	Shall we take care of this file first?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u98	I thought the file was finished, but then I'd wait patiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u99	Mr Calvo, you are asking for the floor. Then we're out of here again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u100	Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u101	Very briefly, it can't be. We left again and anyone who wants to get the floor in a second round. It's unlikely, but is it never possible to accept my good introductory argument? Is there anyone in the Chamber who doesn't know what it's about? Is there anyone who still needs to be convinced or who will convince you in one direction or another?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u102	(...) My group has respected that. That's not quite (...) My question is that you use the possibility in the Rules of Procedure to request the opinion of the Council of State in the short term rather than in the long term, given the history of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u103	Mr Calvo, I was not going to say anything about that now. That is a privilege of the President. I would first like to know if there are enough Members asking for the opinion. Then I will say something about how I will do that, in the order of work. With your permission, I shall now suspend the sitting until 5:15 p.m. To ease the morals, we will now install the new commission. All members of the new committee are going to the Europe Room. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u104	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote announced can now take place. I have quoted the amendments for which the opinion of the Council of State is requested. There is no misconception about that. Normally it is voted on when sitting and standing, but in this case it becomes a vote of name. Those who agree with Mr Verherstraeten's proposal must therefore vote yes. Those who do not agree should not take part in the vote. The only purpose of the vote is to determine whether the required number of votes will be achieved effectively. So you cannot abstain, because you cannot do so in a vote when you sit down and get up. You should not vote no either. Only if you agree with the proposal for an opinion will you vote yes. Otherwise, you should not take part in the vote. Is that clear? We cannot abstain, but we must not vote "no". Those who supported Mr Verherstraeten's request for an opinion voted 'yes'. The other members shall not vote, which shall be used only to determine whether fifty or more members are seeking the opinion of the Council of State. May I assume this is clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u106	I can conclude the vote as 55 Members voted in favour. They therefore agree with the request for advice to the Council of State. That is why I have to seek that advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u107	Here's what I'm gonna introduce you to. I will discuss this request tomorrow at a meeting with the President of the Council of State. Then I can think about that for a while and then I will tell you my decision on the length of time in which I wish to have the opinion, which is my prerogative as President. I repeat in French what I have just said. Tomorrow, I will contact the first President of the Council of State and, after this meeting, I will communicate the deadline within which I request the opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u108	Mr President, I take note of what you are proposing. However, I would like those who have tabled amendments to be able to explain to us what they contain. That is why I am requesting the application of rule 98, paragraph 7, paragraph 3, of the Rules, which provides that consideration of the provisions of the request for notice shall be suspended unless the Chamber decides otherwise. In fact, we can narrow down the terms of my request. Some may not see an interest in having a debate again. Personally, I think it's fundamental. At least the amendments must be presented to us. We need to be told what they are about and what their added value will be from a legal, ethical, moral and political point of view. We, Parliament, must not be the consenting, silent victims of an attempt at obstruction. Under this article, we must at least have a substantial explanation of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard Mr Laaouej's proposal, which calls for the application of Article 98(7)(3). I read that article in Dutch: 'Save to the contrary the decision of the Chamber, the discussion of the provisions on which an opinion has been requested shall be suspended in plenary'. There is therefore a suspension, unless the Court decides otherwise. I would also like to read Rule 98, paragraph 4: 'No other decision may be taken when the President requests the opinion in the event of application of No. 2nd paragraph of Article 3 and No. Paragraph 4, second paragraph.' What Rule 98 (3) provides for is what we are doing now. I am obliged to seek the opinion of the Council of State if the request is supported by 50 members. In the last paragraph of Article 98, 7°, paragraph 4, it is stated that no further decision can be taken if one is within the scope as described. I will repeat my words in Dutch. Mr Laaouej asked that the discussion should continue, although in principle the discussion was suspended. It may be requested that the discussion is not suspended. That's what one can ask. I read here in detail that it is not possible to ask that a different decision be taken when the Council of State's opinion is requested in accordance with No. 2nd paragraph of Article 3 and No. Paragraph 4, second paragraph. No. Paragraph 3 (2) is exactly what is going on here, and 50 Members have asked for the opinion. I ask the House's opinion on Mr Laaouej's proposal. Does the Chamber agree with what I just explained? After all, I'm not Delphi's oracle. If I were, I'd do it another way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u110	Mr President, we are asking for a minimum explanation of the amendments which have been referred to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u111	Mr President, I could easily get rid of Mr Laaouej by referring to my reasoning when I submitted the request for an opinion, as I pointed out the arguments very specifically at the time. Rule 98 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, which I am now taking up, refers only to the work in committee meetings. I quote: 'In committee, the request for an opinion does not suspend the examination of the provisions on which the opinion is requested.' We are not in a committee now, we are in the plenary. Mr President, that is why I believe that the debates can now be suspended. However, I respect Mr Laaouej, as do all other colleagues. I also respect the opinion of colleagues who have different views on the crucial issue, which is now under discussion. However, I also have the right to fundamentally disagree with that. This does not, therefore, show a lack of respect for the position of the others. Ladies and gentlemen, respect presupposes two-way traffic, respect comes from two sides. I have once learned from a former Prime Minister that in Community affairs a majority cannot impose its will on a minority, but that a minority cannot refuse to speak and negotiate either. Well, in my opinion, this applies equally to ethical matters. Mr President, if Mr Laaouej insists, I will go over the amendments that we tabled yesterday. Amendment No 48 amends the text in response to note No. 14 of the Council of State Opinion. It is mainly about linguistic and technical adjustments. Amendment No. 49 is a technical amendment, which seeks to comply with comment No. 15 of the Council of State. The amendment slightly changes the dragonfly of the article. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that amendment No. 50, where we wish to replace a new proposed paragraph as follows: "The health care institution in which a fruit rotation takes place outside the conditions laid down in Article 2 and whose organs, by their conduct, participate in the infringement of those conditions, are sentenced to a fine of EUR 100 to 500." Colleagues, those who have followed the debates in committee know that we are fundamentally struggling with the absence of any provision for penalties for those who, when the bill becomes law, will break that law. They're getting rid of it without penalty. I do not need to remind you of my question of how to enforce the law. How can one then, when an abortion is carried out after 20, after 22 or 23 weeks, sanction the person concerned without criminal sanctions? We do not dispute the right of self-determination of the women in question. We have proved this by making a compromise in the past legislature, whereby the law is based on the fact that abortion is a right, but within the legal conditions laid down, either for medical reasons or within 12 weeks. If criminal sanctions are to be sought, they must be precise and clear. That is why we have proposed a wording which responds to a comment made by the Council of State to also criminalise institutions that consciously participate in an illegal practice. This also applies to the last part, namely the type of penalty. Just because of the punitive provisions, which we want correctly and correctly, we consider it appropriate to seek the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I can see Mr Verherstraeten's answer as a parliamentary courtesy response, as I would like to call it, to Mr Laaouej's question to clarify the amendments. However, we will not start the debate on the substance for the simple reason that I do not agree with what Mr Laaouej says about Rule 98, 7°. We are not in committee, we are in plenary. However, the third paragraph of 7° is just about the plenary. It therefore states: "Unless the Chamber decides otherwise, the discussion shall be suspended in plenary." The fact that it is suspended unless otherwise decided would allow us to assume that we could take a different decision. However, we cannot take a different decision, because if we continue to read under 4°, it is clear that in the sphere of application of No. The second paragraph of paragraph 3 is therefore an application for an opinion in respect of which 50 members have expressed their views. That is my reading of the Rules of Procedure. I repeat that Mr Verherstraeten replied for the sake of parliamentary courtesy. I cannot therefore put Mr Laaouej's question to the vote. After all, according to my reading of the Rules of Procedure, she is not admissible. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you had another request for advice. Do you still want to talk about the foregoing? We will stop this debate, otherwise Mr Calvo and other Members will ask to speak and we will start again. It is a good thing that someone else always sits down, but I would like to leave it at that and just return what I have just said to Parliament. I will deliver the request for advice tomorrow or tonight, if it is up to me, to the Council of State. However, I will have a meeting tomorrow with the first President of the Council of State. I will then make my decision on the time limit within which the Council of State can give its opinion. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you had another question about another request for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u113	Mr President, I would like to comment on the deadline. You say that you will take your decision after consultation with the Council of State, and I would like to draw your inspiration from the Bible of this House. On page 286 in paragraph 435, it says: "The Chairman remains in principle in charge of the deadlines, even if he is obliged by a third of the members of his Assembly or by the majority of the members of a language group to seek the opinion of the Council of State. It may be assumed that the President takes some account of the desiderata of the Members who requested the opinion." I think it has been made clear here that we are asking for a full opinion. This is a reminder and a guide from the Bible of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u114	I shall now give the floor to Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u115	Mr President, there are very good reasons for asking for the opinion in the short term, such as the long parliamentary discussion and the fact that it would be the third time. We will also deliver those arguments in writing to you with as many applicants as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u116	Mrs Van Bossuyt referred to the fact that I am free to make my own decision at any time. I don't like much here in this House, but some things do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u117	Mrs Van Bossuyt, you will now have the floor on a request for the opinion of the Council of State on another legislative proposal and the amendments tabled to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u118	Mr President, we would also very much have liked to have asked for the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments tabled to the legislative proposal No. 654 amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals as regards the protection of victims of intra-family violence in connection with family reunification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u119	Mr President, it is evident to some that recourse to the opinion of the Council of State is there to delay parliamentary work, to obstruct it. I would ask you to justify your amendment, not just with one or the other formula. What is happening in this Parliament is totally unacceptable. I just heard Mr Verherstraeten. These amendments do not justify an opinion of the Council of State. These are technical, quasi-legislistic considerations. Taking our institution hostage with repeated amendments every time you find it difficult to take a vote where you are put in a minority, it's starting to do well! I ask for a true justification for your amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u120	Mr Laaouej, we are simply asking for the application of the Rules of Procedure, that is all. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u121	There's no problem with a name vote. I've already had it programmed. That was known for the first suspension. We can do it through a name vote. A name vote does not give rise to different interpretations. As far as Mr Laaouej's question is concerned, I will not go into the substance. I say: take advantage of the receipt period to take a good look at the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Minorities must be protected, but that cannot, as I said earlier, mean that the final majority of Parliament cannot vote. In judicial terms, this is called dilatory maneuvers. I will not describe it as such, but these are procedural elements which are sometimes said to be used improperly. I am not saying that this is the case, but I always hear this discussion returning. The Rules of Procedure and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure therefore seem appropriate to me to take a look at that. Can we vote on Mrs Van Bossuyt's request for an opinion on the legislative proposal No. 654? We are dealing with amendments. 13, 14, 16, 15, 17, 18 and 19 by Mrs Safai and his associates. We're using the same procedure. Anyone who supports Mrs Van Bossuyt's request for an opinion will vote yes. The others are requested not to vote. I'm gonna try again. Only a yes vote interests me and the assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u122	As 50 Members have voted yes, the discussion of the legislative proposal is no. 654 suspended and I will send the request for advice to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u123	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Els Van Hoof, Nawal Farih, Leen Dierick, Barbara Creemers, Laurence Hennuy, Jan Bertels, Karin Jiroflée, Catherine Fonck, Kathleen Depoorter, Hervé Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u124	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1211/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1211/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u125	Mr President, I refer to the written report. We will try to move the work forward today!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on accessible and affordable mental health was adopted following hearings and is widely supported. From longer than COVID, several groups supported the call for more affordable and accessible mental health care and steps had already been taken in response to the reports of the KCE. However, if only 500 of the 15,000 psychologists participate and only 500 000 euros are spent on the planned budget of 22.5 million, then it turns out that the system was far from optimal. It wasn't exactly on wheels. Then came COVID. If COVID has taught us one thing, then it is that the mind and the body work like a tandem and that they both need to be cared for. Our young people and the elderly turned out to be the most vulnerable groups and those were just the groups that until recently did not have access to that affordable and accessible mental health care. We should not be surprised that the impact of COVID on our young people and the elderly was so enormous. After all, the social interaction of young people has a very large impact on their evolution and on the overall picture of their lives for the elderly. It is therefore very nice that the helplines in Flanders have worked together to create one large platform and to work proactively with the psychologists. It is also wonderful that the caregivers in the residential care centers have given everything to surround the elderly and overcome the emptiness that there was due to lack of family and acquaintances, due to lack of hugs. However, that was not enough. I would like to say nothing about our health care providers, who have gone all the way to the bottom and who can now be accompanied. I am therefore grateful to Mrs Van Hoof for putting this issue on the agenda and taking this initiative. I was therefore excited to co-sign and shape this resolution. It is important that we have held hearings where we have really allowed our experts to speak. One of the experts put it very nicely: there will be a fourth wave. For that fourth wave, we're gonna have to arm ourselves. Then he didn't mention the short-term effects of mental health care. COVID-19 has indeed stopped therapies and there is a reactivation of certain mental disorders, but after COOVID, in the long term we will also see how the effects of the quarantine have been cut off by our young people. Another expert was able to tell us that the germ of a mental disorder is laid in young adulthood. It's like those young adults who had a very big impact on quarantine measures. They suddenly had to adapt to a new life in a bubble, in quarantine. The KCE report also refers to the persistence of our mental care, our psychiatric care, our approach to mental health care. I believe that this resolution will break through this determination. What we have done so far has been to treat a crisis situation when symptoms become apparent. However, we should be able to intervene much earlier when the germ of the mental disorder is emerging. We must avoid a crisis situation. Betting on early detection and early treatment is therefore very important. We have also heard about the payback effects in the hearings. We are not only looking at this economically, although that economic aspect is certain because people who have mental problems, who have no aid, who cannot move forward, will not work. We also see in reports that there is a large degree of absenteeism. They say poor makes sick and sick makes poor. Indeed, we can see how certain patients are in that vicious circle and can't get out of it. The intervention we are taking today with this resolution is therefore very important. We're gonna go wider and we're gonna go deeper. We will reach more patients in first line psychology and we will be able to redirect more patients to the second line. Very important for the N-VA group is that the GP remains central and that the psychologist is standing next to the GP and that the information flows, so that the patient file can be viewed as a whole. We also need to get off the box thinking. The flow of medical information is very important. Mental health care must be able to stand alongside somatic care and must be integrated into the whole health policy. For the budgets, the opposite path was followed. Last week, the amendment was adopted to allocate EUR 200 million to mental health care. The fact that we can fill this in so quickly and that we see the need effectively, for example in the COVID-19 patients who have been hospitalised for a very long time, is very encouraging. It is also very encouraging that, through the amendment, the liaison psychiatry has entered the resolution. There are still COVID-19 patients in the hospitals. We'll make sure the psychiatrist gets to the sick's bed. This will not only be the case in COVID-19 times, but it will be much wider. In other departments within the hospital, we will ensure that the psychiatrist has access to the patients in the germ, when the problem can arise. This will also play an important role in the rehabilitation of the COVID-19 patients. We are pleased that our amendment has been held back on this. We have also strongly supported the amendment on the reduction of psychopharmaceuticals. Reports have shown that too many pills are being taken and that pills are being taken for too long. It is therefore a good thing that we will work on this and that we will accompany the patients in taking less of both reimbursed and unpaid psychopharmaceuticals. Unfortunately, our country has a very sad reputation in terms of depression, suicide and pills. Our group hopes that this resolution will help us to achieve a balanced mental health care for all our patients. As far as the amendments that will be discussed here today are concerned, the main message I am sending is that we are in agreement with Amendment No 2. 31 on the KCE report. Indeed, the KCE report refers to the continuity between the social sector and mental health care. We are not going along with the amendments. 37 and 35. There they ask for a budget, a growth path to 10 %. Why don't we go along with that? Because that $200 million was approved last week. There's provision for that. We think it is very important that we grow and evaluate in mental health, but I would like to point out that we are not exhausted the funds already provided for at the moment. We would much rather evaluate how far our patients get with the 200 million. We must keep an eye on the budget, even in these COOVID times. For Amendment No. 32 we will abstain, because the KCE report is already included in the previous amendment. For Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 7, 9, 10, 10, 10, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, Amendment No 33, colleagues, is on Rule 107. That's a Flemish jurisdiction. And as an N-VA, we are of course in full agreement with the fact that Flanders can perform its competence perfectly and that this must be clarified at the Flemish level. With Amendment No. 34, the transfer of mental health care to the Flemish jurisdiction, we are once again in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u127	Mr President, it has been a very strange period for everyone. Corona taught us a lot. When I look at the resolution before us, I dare to be a little optimistic that we really agree on certain things in Parliament and that we agree on something as important as mental health care. We are once again aware of the importance of keeping people healthy rather than letting them slowly become ill, of how crucial mental health is and of how we can move forward together in this area. We also see that the impact of the rat race in which we get involved is becoming too much. It is therefore the ideal time to move towards a new normal in the field of mental health care in particular and health care in general. With this resolution there was already a very solid basis, thanks to Mr Van Hoof, for the corona crisis. After all, Mrs Depoorter said that Minister De Block made a good effort in the previous legislature to repay mental health care, but the experts and the budget show that it does not work well enough. By creating the Psycho-Mut, we are giving a very good answer to this because it simplifies the procedure of payout and thus also makes mental health care, especially in the first line, easier and more accessible. In the middle of the corona time we spent three and a half days listening to experts. Those were the most interesting hearings I experienced in the year I sat in the Chamber. With this resolution we can respond to a number of problems that were already there: the use of antidepressants, to which Mrs Depooster referred, but also the fact that mental problems are at the root of half of the disability benefits applications. We learned much more in the hearings about the taboo that still prevails. Perhaps we should ask each other much more how things are going in these times and open to them. We already knew it, but we have seen once again in black and white that investing in mental health really pays off and that we should not be so afraid of the many thresholds that exist. For example, a fine amendment that was tabled concerns the continuation of online consultations, as was the case in the corona crisis. During the lockdown, psychologists started working on online consultations and we learned from the experts that in this way they could reach another target group that was much more difficult to reach before. This is a very good example of the way in which we have already incorporated a number of points that we have learned from the experts into the resolution, including the involvement of the carers and the much more involvement of the zero line in the whole issue. Colleagues, we should be proud of the work ahead of us. Many amendments have been added to make everything we have learned coronaproof. However, I also realise that it is only the beginning. It is a solid resolution, which has already been budgeted for last week. However, we are not yet here. The resolution is a strong signal that we must continue to focus on mental health in the coming years. We have a great deal of work to do. I am also thinking, first of all, of caring for those who care and all those who have suffered trauma by standing in the line of fire and in the front line and watching people die. They must be the absolute priority of mental health care together with the patients who are now recovering. We must not forget them and make them resilient again for the moment when we need them again in the event of a second wave. I would like to thank my fellow Members for working together, in complete serenity, on the resolution. I also call for the resolution to be seen only as a beginning and to pay a great deal of attention to the problem in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis we are experiencing has had a serious impact on the health of the population. More than 60,000 confirmed cases at VOCID-19, nearly 18,000 hospitalized and unfortunately nearly 10,000 deaths, this is the latest report published by Sciensano. Physical health consequences have been regularly highlighted: more or less severe symptoms of the disease, intensive management in hospitals, recovery, rehabilitation and often very long revalidation of affected people. Very quickly, alongside these somatic consequences, my group paid particular attention to the psychological consequences of this crisis and the containment that had to be put in place. With a desire to take into consideration the impact on people affected by the disease, of course, on their entourage, but also on people who had to continue working during the crisis and especially on all the healthcare workers who worked day and night in extremely difficult conditions. In fact, the studies have multiplied in this context and all the experts we have heard in the Committee on Health have been unanimous. The needs were crying out yesterday and they will be even more so tomorrow with this crisis, which they believe could cause a real tsunami in terms of mental health. Psychological problems were already on the rise in our country before the health crisis. The latest performance report of the Belgian health system produced by KCE, INAMI and SPF Santé publique clearly demonstrates this: the number of suicides remains too high, the use of antidepressants continues to increase and care in psychiatric institutions remains important. As a result, pre-pandemic symptoms and suffering may increase. Containment has undoubtedly caused terrible psychological distress, severe anxiety in some people. It has been able to exacerbate crisis situations such as those related to domestic violence. The death that strikes families is violent and difficult to accept. The impossibility of paying tribute to the deceased during confinement also made mourning very complicated. With the obligation of teleworking, many households find themselves having to manage everything at the same time: work, children, household tasks, etc. Thus, there may be fears of a resurgence of parental burn out, depression and, at worst, suicide. All these consequences can be particularly important for people who are already psychologically weakened, or for isolated people such as residents of nursing homes or the disability sector, for example. And then, as the hearings have also shown enough, attention will also have to be paid to young people, children and adolescents, who have also undergone a change in their habits and who have been forced into forced isolation and who have experienced a shook school year-end. Finally, how could we forget all those who have been on the front line: the caregivers and all the staff of the care institutions who have had to work under sometimes inhuman circumstances, who have been confronted with significant psychological pressure? Our heroes took care of us as they faced the feeling of vulnerability or loss of control, with fear in the belly too, fear of being contaminated and contaminate their loved ones, with voluntary or forced isolation. In Belgium, initiatives have been put in place within hospitals or some nursing homes, whether they are support cells, psychosocial interventions offered within institutions or platforms to address the concerns and questions of caregivers. Structural responses are needed today and we must make every effort to ensure that our healthcare staff are able to react tomorrow again. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, mental health needs are acute and failure to act swiftly would have disastrous effects on both citizens and society as a whole. So we need a structural response. The proposal which is on our bench today and which we have co-signed is the result of constructive work that we have been able to do in the Committee on Health and all the elements that we have defended are found in it. We would also like to thank our colleagues on the CD&V, particularly Mrs Van Hoof, for the constructive and fruitful listening work. We now hope that the government – or the future government – will quickly implement the recommendations we make today. Addressing the psychological needs of the population must be a primary focus in managing the crisis we are experiencing, as is the case with somatic health and the economy. It is also difficult to understand that mental health care, as well as psychological aspects, has not been greater in the context of containment decisions but also in the context of deconfinity. Mental health is a component and an integral part of health. It contributes to the well-being in which a person can realize himself, cope with the stress of life, perform fulfilling work and become fully involved in society. Making mental health a priority policy will not only improve the life of the population, but will also have beneficial social and economic effects. Let's finally give her the place she deserves!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u129	Mr President, the Flemish interest is of course also pleased with this proposal. In the Committee on Health, our group has asked several questions about mental health care, proving that it is close to our heart. Who has seen this sector undervalued for years and therefore underfunded? For years now, the dome of mental health care has been begging for more resources and raising the alarm about the high number of depressions and suicides. This is clear from the hearings, and this will only get worse as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis. Any proposal on accessibility and affordability of mental health care can therefore count on the support of the Flemish Interest. One speaker said it at the hearings: every penny spent in mental health care is often paid back by society. The Flemish Interest calls for an integral health care system, which extends the classical medical understanding of patients based on a vision of the whole human being, which strives for life fulfillment and harmony with his environment. Health care must be based on a holistic approach, which heals both mind and body. Or, as they used to say, human sana in corpore sano. In committee, the Flemish Interest tabled four amendments, which unfortunately failed because of blind obedience to the cordon against my party. We are putting them to the vote again, in case the so-called democratic parties would assess amendments and legislative proposals on content, not on the petitioner. In the first three amendments we refer to the KCE report 318. Amendment 1 refers to that report, which states that respondents are the highest priority objective to ensure continuity between the social sector and the health sector. This is also confirmed by the results of the qualitative focus groups. It therefore seems logical to take account of the report in the reform of mental health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u130	If you vote against this amendment, you say that the focus groups and the respondents are wrong, then you do not think that ensuring the continuity of the social sector and the health sector is a priority objective, and you also think that the KCE report is not worthy enough to be included in the reforms. Our second amendment refers to the same report, which clearly states what stakeholders believe are priorities. It is therefore interesting to include the results of stakeholder surveys, in particular care providers, patients and their carers, in the next steps in mental health reform. If you vote against that amendment, you are actually saying that the priorities of the stakeholders should not be taken into account and once again refer the KCE report to the trash can. Our third amendment concerns Article 107 reforms, launched in 2010 in the form of experimental projects. For the purpose of implementing certain new initiatives, the article 107, an article of the Hospital Act, was used. Article 107 therefore gave its name to the reform 107 and also to projects 107. The aim of the reform 107 is to integrate mental health care into the community. This objective should be achieved with the 107 projects which, moreover, replace therapeutic projects. The reform also resulted in Article 107 networks, formal collaborations between healthcare providers to provide care to a specific target group. They are temporarily financed, mainly from the funding of psychiatric hospitals through the freezing of beds on a voluntary basis. As part of the reform of mental health care, we believe it is useful to evaluate the existing networks and to include the results of that evaluation in further reforms. It goes without saying that the necessary financial resources will have to be made available. If you vote against, you actually think that the 107 networks should not be evaluated and that the evaluation should not be taken into account in the reform of mental health care. The fourth amendment aims to transfer mental health to the communities in a forthcoming state reform. A common complaint on the field is that mental health care is too fragmented. In order to combat the fragmentation and so that each community could organise mental health care according to its own needs, we would urge that the power be transferred fully to the communities. In this way, mental health care becomes more accessible and understandable for both care providers and patients as well as their carers. Ladies and gentlemen, three of the four amendments deal with matters that no one would vote away from an ideological or political point of view should they come from another party. I would therefore urge you once again to put aside the hatred of my party, to go fully in favour of improving mental health care and therefore to approve the amendments. After all, they all concern pain points, which need to be addressed. I hope that you all have a real heart for mental health care and that it is not just words and political games.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the availability of psychological care has been a concern that the government has been taking into account for several years. Of course, it is essential to do even more, certainly much more for the psychological well-being of our population at work or in the family sphere. It seems to us important to recall that this government has decided to reimburse first-line psychological care for the 18-65 year-olds, while this rebate was extended to all young people and seniors last April. During the acute pandemic crisis, the Minister of Health also introduced a reimbursement of remote psychological assistance through video consultations by a contracted psychologist or clinician orthopaedagogue. As we all know, the pandemic will undoubtedly leave physical traces in our society, among health professionals, but not only. As we have seen, psychological distress has arisen or sometimes increased during the period of confinement. For children and adolescents who have not been able to attend school for a long time, for our seniors for whom this period of confinement has been synonymous with total isolation, it is important to be able to ensure that care opportunities are optimally matched with the actual needs of the population. This calls for concrete measures. This motion for a resolution is an important part of this. It is in this sense that we have amended this text in order, first, to revise the methodology for the census of care with strict respect for the confidentiality of such care and the protection of privacy, as requested by the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE) and, second, to obtain precise data to enable a rapid response to needs. We have all read the KCE report. In this 2019 report on the organisation of mental health care in our country, it is pointed out that there are no centralized data or verifiable figures to ensure the match between the possibilities of care and the real needs of the population. The mental health sector needs rapid, but consistent, responses that are cross-cutting across all levels of government and based on accurate data. The purpose of our amendment is therefore to ask the government to revise the method of identifying and encoding mental health care data on levels of prevalence, nature, severity of problems, provision and use of mental health care. Improved accessibility and quality of care will inevitably be achieved through future investments in mental health care as well as scientific research dedicated to mental health care. In order to achieve the expected results, it will also be essential to act in a coordinated and concerted manner with the federated entities. The MR Group – as you will have understood – will support this motion for a resolution, welcoming the effective and constructive work that has been done in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I referred to the sadness of Belgium during the hearings. Everyone knows the book as the classic of Hugo Claus, but "the sorrow of Belgium" is unfortunately also a good description for the mental health of our country. That sadness goes deep. The figures are alarming: one in three Belgians does not feel well in his skin. Those are not my words but the words of the KCE about the performance of the Belgian health system, which in its report of 2019, to which reference has already been made, mentioned mental health care as one of the pain points in our system. Belgium is top on suicide. That's embarrassing. There are 15.8 suicides per hundreds of thousands of inhabitants, with which we are well above the European average. We are also the frontrunner in taking antidepressants. The European average is 64 doses per thousand inhabitants per day. We're at 79 doses. So we have to deal with this sadness of Belgium thoroughly. We did that, too. We will not do this quickly and believe that we will solve everything with a few interventions here and there or with extra resources here and there. Well, then we're really in the wrong place. Several generations will suffer from that grief and will carry it along with it. We in the Committee on Health have therefore worked very thoroughly and seriously on this important subject. We have had a series of interesting hearings. I agree with that. I would once again like to thank the experts who have worked on this and are also following the debate in the gallery today, for which I thank them. They also shared their experience, their knowledge and their vision with us during the hearings. I am also very proud and very pleased that the resolution is before us today in plenary. I would like to thank all the committee members for their constructive cooperation and support for the text before us. The motion for a resolution is widely supported. In doing so, the Chamber sends an important and bearable signal to anyone who is having a hard time or feels bad in their skin. We hear them. To the mental health sector, which has long demanded greater recognition and more equal treatment compared to somatic care, we would like to say that we have heard them. Parliament also wants to contribute to a solution for them. With this proposal for a resolution, we are setting out a framework for a thorough reform of mental health care. Mrs Depoorter, the corona crisis has indeed highlighted the importance of mental health and highlighted the mental resilience that is really needed. We must seize this momentum to carry out the necessary reforms. With this motion for a resolution, we are actually calling for long, medium and short-term reforms. In the long run is within ten years. Then there must have been a paradigmashift. We need to step away from a mental health care that focuses solely on clinical healing. We must move towards mental health care aimed at recovery, not only clinical recovery, but also personal and social recovery. Professor Chantal Van Audenhove explained at the hearing that a medical model is based on a sick person with symptoms and a clear diagnosis. That's the clinical aspect. The purpose of this medical model is healing. Unfortunately, that doesn't always work. A severe mental disorder, a personality disorder can't really be cured. Someone with this disorder can function perfectly in society by a personal recovery, by ensuring that they can live in connection with others, but also by social recovery, by getting opportunities, opportunities to study, opportunities in the labour market. According to this model, the entire mental health sector is trying to go. No cure, but quality of life is the goal of the recovery model. For this to happen, the taboo must first be broken. People with mental problems are still too often isolated. They are on the outskirts of society. They belong in the middle of society. They belong in the labour market. They belong in association and leisure life. They belong to their families. That's why a model aimed at recovery is so important. We must take an important step in this direction. We need to ensure that mental health care becomes out-patient and accessible, that care literally reaches home to the people to ensure that the caregiver as well as experience experts are involved. Psychological care at home or in the neighborhood aimed at that recovery is important. Today, only 6% of the federal health budget is invested in mental health care. That is really too little, and this is when the psychological problems of Belgians cost our economy 20.7 billion euros each year and RIZIV spends 7.1 billion euros on disability benefits, whose psychological problems are increasingly the cause. We must and can invest these resources better. It has been calculated that every euro invested in mental health care is paid back 4 euros. That is why we think that growth path, Mrs Depooster, is very important. It is not enough to pay EUR 200 million on a one-off basis. We need to maintain this structuralally in order to achieve that doubling of that budget. This will indeed take us 10 years. It is important that we set that goal first. The OECD, a very important body, says that it is too little and that we need to do more. I think we have far too much economic costs and far too much cost of disability benefits if we do not move forward quickly. That is why I am asking for your support for this amendment for the time being. In the medium term, there must also be psychological assistance for all care providers, not just during the corona crisis. The corona crisis has put the finger on the wound, but there are numerous burn-outs in the healthcare sector. We all see the numbers in the paper. We notice more and more that a lot of nurses want to stop because they can't handle the pressure and the busy shifts anymore. A system needs to be developed and funded to strengthen and restore the mental health of care providers, not only during the corona crisis, but also in the longer term. I say medium term, but in Flanders Minister Beke has already allocated EUR 25 million for the Mental Welfare Action Plan, Care for tomorrow starts today, intended for care providers. However, we want all healthcare providers throughout Belgium to have access to a system of mental well-being and care for care providers. It has been said a few times that it is unbelievable that psychologists and GGZ professionals are not involved in the RIZIV today. The model of convention that was developed in the past was developed without the psychologists. It was developed with the psychiatric hospitals because they are represented within the RIZIV. We don't think we can do that. That is why we have included in this resolution the need for a Psycho-Mut to negotiate, including with insurance institutions, psychologists, orthopedagogics and the GGZ professionals. They can then talk about financing, the conclusion of tariff agreements and also about reimbursement. Because with the refund, things are going badly wrong. It was a merit that a system was set up, but there are few psychologists who are contractually committed and there are few resources of the EUR 22.5 million that are being used up. We therefore need to remove the administrative thresholds, both for the patient, because there are only certain pathologies allowed, and in terms of the rates, which are too low for us to get into them today. The future of mental health care is a multidisciplinary and integrated future. Everyone shouldn't negotiate from their own quarters. That is why we believe it is important that a federal council be set up in which psychologists, mutualities, psychiatrists, general practitioners, carers and experienced experts are right to have their place. They should be able to advise all relevant RIZIV bodies on all matters concerning mental health care. We must go for mental health in all policies, including within the RIZIV. Finally, in this resolution we are calling for a more equal approach to mental health care with regard to somatic health care. In the short term, too, we want to see a rapid increase in the capacity of guidance so that children and especially young people can have an appointment quickly. That is quite clear as an amendment to this resolution. That is very important in the short term. We also call for the full implementation of the law on mental health professions in the short term. It's more than four years later now. It is high time that supportive GGZ professions were recognised as a psychological consultant, and that the professional internship of clinical psychologists and orthopedagogics was arranged in the area of funding. It's been in this law for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, with the resolution before us, we are putting on the table a strong set of demands. With this vision, which is widely supported here, we can reform mental health care. We are sending out a strong signal for equal treatment of mental health care with regard to somatic health care. We ask for care focused on recovery. We ask for immediate, accessible and accessible mental health care. We ask that Belgium's grief for future generations be completed. Thank you again for your constructive cooperation in the committee and also for your words in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u133	Mr President, the PTB will support this resolution, which aims to promote easily accessible mental health care during and after the Coronavirus crisis. This is a very important step because this resolution puts physical and mental health on an equal footing and calls for recognition of the importance of mental health at the level of INAMI. As a general practitioner, I can testify: very often patients come to us for psychological problems. As has been said, reasons for disability or long-term illness are often psychological. I am thinking in particular of burn out and depression. It is important to see the patient as an entire person by treating both physical and mental health. In Belgium, hospitals are at the forefront in terms of equipment. But, in terms of psychological care, we are really lagging behind because access to psychologists remains very expensive and difficult. For us, it is important that mental health is effectively at the top of the agenda. A lot of people interviewed us on the ground asking that Parliament should make a statement. That's what's happening today. Then came the corona epidemic that showed us how important mental health care is effective. This has speeded up the agenda here, and that is a good thing. Another important element is the focus on the mental health of workers in the healthcare sector. We must pay much more attention to this, because we can see that the psychological consequences there today are very heavy. I was a little surprised to see that the initiative for this resolution came from CD&V. I remember, as probably everyone, that Mr Beke came up with some cold savings measures. I mention a number of them, because it is important to remember them. 5 million savings were proposed at mental health centres which would reduce their ability to treat 2,000 patients. There were also savings in the suicide prevention service, although we in Belgium have one of the highest rates of suicide. One has to dare. There was the continued mobilisation of the sector, with 8,000 protesters on 5 March, for example, against the savings measures of the government with CD&V, N-VA and Open Vld in Flanders. There was protest from Zorgnet- Icuro that was very strict and very angry at the Flemish government. It is a good thing that another card is being drawn at federal level. I'd like to state what I'm hearing on the premises. The savings partially withdrawn in Flanders have not been fully withdrawn. The savings on the CAWs include a one-off reduction of 8 million, but from next year they will have to save the full 5 million again. For this reason, they have to cut among other things in the "Life and Family Questions" teams. That is a very low-threshold psychological aid service, which we are advocating in this resolution. There is also a saving of €92,000 in support centres for child abuse, and this is not reversed, nor is the saving of €1 million in support of Human and Society. I hear that EUR 25 million is being allocated to healthcare providers. That is a positive thing, but I hope that this resolution will also lead to a change in the policy of savings that is still being pursued by the government of CD&V, N-VA and Open Vld. It is clear that instead of saving money we need to invest in health prevention. Every euro that we put in prevention earns itself back in multiples.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u134	You say that only savings have been made, but those savings have also been reversed, including for suicide prevention. You know that. In addition to this additional EUR 25 million, an additional EUR 12 million was provided for the mental health centres in this legislature. So it is not a one-sided policy of savings. As far as CD&V is concerned, it was Mrs Muylle who acknowledged the psychologists and submitted the first bill on the reimbursement of psychological care. So it's not a one-sided story. That's what I'd like to nuance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u135	Mrs Merckx, you refer to the Flemish Government and the savings that have been made there. Mrs Van Hoof has already said that this has been reversed. That's point one. Secondly, I would like to point out that the parties that have created the Flemish Government have assumed their responsibilities. They wanted to participate in government, which I cannot say of your party at the Walloon level. I'd blow a little less off the tower. It is very easy to take the floor and put forward all kinds of solutions for health care without putting resources in place or without taking responsibility. Our government and our parties have at least taken responsibility. They have realised that other uses were better. They have reduced certain savings. They are now setting out a path for the future. I think this is the most important thing for all our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u136	Mrs Depoorter, I don't think anything new has been said. The government of N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld announced savings, but had to come back to them because of protest. I think the PVDA was at the root of the release of the EUR 400 million, adding 4,000 jobs to the healthcare sector. We have freed up these funds and have them approved here by vote. Last week, 200 million were approved for mental health care. Our other proposals can be summarized as follows: Also support N-VA, such as the corona tax with which we want to release funds or the kiwi model, which can release EUR 400 million. I recommend to the N-VA and possibly CD&V to support this when we submit it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u137	Mrs Merckx, you also say nothing new. You did not participate in the Walloon Government because you are avoiding your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u138	We speak here at federal level. We're not here in Wallonia or Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u139	Mr President, I repeat my speech. Before I was interrupted, I was talking about prevention. Today, only 3% of the national health budget is devoted to prevention. In our opinion, that should be more. In the original text of the resolution there was therefore an ambitious sentence asking for the mental health budget to rise from 6% to 12%. We regret that this was taken out at MR's request, so to speak, in order to leave more room for manoeuvre. For us, it is important to make a resolution as concrete as possible. For this reason, we have today tabled an amendment to replace the now vague definition of the budget to a larger share and to put back the original 12% in the resolution. In the meantime, I have seen that Mrs Van Hoof has tabled an amendment to increase the budget to 10%, so I suspect that our amendment has inspired this. Mrs Van Hoof, it may be interesting to know why you reduced the percentage from 12 % to 10 %. A second point in the resolution that I have some questions about is the reduction of the number of psychiatric hospital beds. After all, we are seeing savings there today. It is necessary and necessary to extend the provision of care, which is also mentioned in the resolution, but I note that psychiatric hospital beds are being removed without adequate care for the patient. I've been a GP for 20 years, and I can tell you that 20 years ago, it was easier to get a patient admitted to psychiatry. Often, however, these are really dramatic situations, such as people who have suicidal tendencies. If one cannot find a place for those people, then that is really poignant. However, we have had mobile teams available for the last two or three years, but I would like to warn you about the reduction of beds. In addition, there is the problem of over-consumption of psychotropic medication. Few people really get psychological help but many take antidepressants or tranquilizers. We have therefore tabled an amendment to ask the Centre of Knowledge to carry out a study and, together with the BCFI, to draw up a plan to tackle the over-consumption of psychotropics in our country. We are, of course, very pleased that our amendment has been adopted. It is also important to further reduce the thresholds to the psychologist. This resolution contains a number of things in this sense, and for us it is important that psychological consultations are paid back for all age groups and diseases. There is also a need to invest in a broad group of first-line psychologists. We have also tabled an amendment on the problem of language and culture. This is an important factor in the field of access to psychological aid. Finding a foreign-language aid worker is almost impossible. The main problem is also that the aid in other languages has not been mapped out. There are many questions to consult a psychologist who speaks a language other than French or Dutch. There is therefore too little use of intercultural phenomena. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this subject. In conclusion, I should like to say that this resolution should not remain a pious wish, but should be effectively implemented. With the PTB, we will remain attentive to it. For us, it's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u140	Mr President, a question was asked about the increase to 10%. That is the OECD standard: each country must reach 10%. Originally, there was 12% in our proposal, but a majority decided that they should be complementary means and so I sought a compromise. I therefore hope that the resolution will be given greater support in this way. That is actually the only reason: I am looking for broad support, because it makes no sense if the text is voted down. I therefore hope to be able to count on your support. As far as psychiatric hospitals are concerned, EUR 2.7 billion goes to mental health care in Belgium today. Of that, EUR 2 billion goes to psychiatric hospitals. That is an imbalance, and I think there is no doubt that there is room for outpatient care, knowing that we are at the top in terms of psychiatric beds and that we really need to work more on social and personal recovery. This is better done in the family and in the context in which psychiatric patients live rather than in psychiatric hospitals. The mental health sector also requires that switch itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u141	I sometimes have the impression that we are going back to committee debates in plenary. But it's something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u142	Mr President, I will keep it a little shorter than the people who preceded me. Mental health care is, of course, an area in health care where catching up is needed. Open Vld is well aware of this. The mental health sector has been struggling for decades with a lack of investment. That's not new. Minister De Block had started the introduction of a system for the reimbursement of consultations with clinical psychologists and orthopedagogists, for which she would have liked to have more resources. Additional resources have also been invested in Article 107 networks, where mobile teams have been strengthened. We strongly support the question raised in this resolution. We have shown this in the Rule-by-Rule vote in committee. However, we will be abstaining from this resolution with pain. It is a real shame that the budget is being increased at federal level, but that it is not being asked of the regions. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats had tabled an amendment calling on the regions to increase their budgets equally, but this was voted down. Prevention is, after all, an important link in mental health care. During the hearings, Mr Kraewinkels van Mentalwijs stated that a euro invested in mental health care paid back twice and heavily. It is therefore a pity that our amendment was not adopted. Now, in our view, the prevention link is missing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u143	Mr President, the resolution before us raises a problem which we have been aware of for many years and which has already been the subject of various proposals in this House. This has never been done in a serious way. There have been initiatives, but it has remained patchwork. Let's be honest. It is this corona crisis that created a momentum, because we are all suddenly very aware of the usefulness of mental health care. Loneliness celebrated the last few months and the stress that nurses have experienced can still be felt for years, to name but two examples. The figures of mental health care in Belgium are also not really to write about home. The waiting lists are getting longer and longer and aren't getting rid of them. We prescribe too many antidepressants and we take a sad lead when it comes to suicide statistics. It is to the credit of this proposal that there is an integrated text, a text that brings together different aspects of mental health care. I would like to highlight three elements which are very important for our group. Firstly, the integrated approach is a very important point for us. At the moment there are far too many silos in mental health care. The different aspects of the care system are not or hardly related, each working on its island. We need to move from a fragmented policy to an integrated policy, with a clear division of labour. The general practitioners, in collaboration with the psychologists, must be the engine of detection and treatment. Let it be clear, not every psychic discomfort requires heavy medication or long treatment times. Putting someone back on the road can sometimes be quite easy and quite short. Secondly, we want a more equal approach to mental health care with regard to somatic health care, especially when it comes to funding. Currently, Belgium invests 6% of the health budget in mental health care. This is little compared to the countries around us. We would like to evolve from 6% to 12%, as stated in this resolution. We have already provided resources, and I am looking at Mr Bertels. Last week, we had a deal on the 200 million. After all, investing in mental health care is investing in our society. Thirdly, we want accessible, accessible and accessible care. The current system of partial reimbursement is not transparent and is unnecessarily complicated, both for the psychologist and for the patient. From the experience of first-line psychological assistance, we know that 88 percent of people were helped in five sessions. As I said earlier, it doesn't always have to be very long treatments. If we do not manage to provide this rapid care, then small problems will become great, and that will harm the patient, but of course also our society. We therefore call for a proper, transparent refund in a clear and immediately accessible system. We must put that in place. That is the most important thing in this resolution for us. We have therefore signed it with conviction, and we will, of course, support it with conviction today. I would like to thank everyone who worked on it once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u144	Mr President, first of all I would like to welcome the initiative taken by my colleague, Els Van Hoof, and the fact that we have been able to work in close cooperation at Parliament level. The text proposed for the vote today is obviously positive and we will support it, even if, on some aspects, we would like to go further. Indeed, mental health is the poor parent of health, even though the needs and societal impact are major. While we know the economic impact of the VOCID-19 pandemic on society, it also has an impact on the mental health of the population and the investigations conducted since the beginning of the crisis have shown a significant deterioration in the psychological health of Belgians. Let us recall Professor Laurent's study of UCLouvain, which showed that about 50% of those interviewed were in psychological distress at the beginning of confinement! For many years, there has been a lack of space on the ground for a lot of services. The current network between the different services, in order to respond to those who need it, falls far short of the needs. With regard to neighbouring countries, the mental health sector is largely underfunded in Belgium. The expectations of patients on the list are very long before treatment. At the budgetary level, only 6% of expenditure is spent on mental health, while the OECD advocates a minimum of 10%. To those who try to curb a larger investment in the budget, we must dare to repeat that every euro invested in mental health can potentially earn 4. This WHO study demonstrates the positive impact first of all in terms of individual health, with savings in health care, in terms of replacement income, in terms of justice costs, and then in terms of productivity and economic growth. We also have in Belgium – we must be able to remind you here – points that can only be called into question, with a high suicide rate in Belgium. Unfortunately, we are among the three European countries with the most suicides, with an average of six suicides a day. We have a very high consumption of antidepressants and sleeping pills. One third of disability benefit claims are related to mental problems. The situation of adolescents is also extremely worrying, as half of the psychological disorders occur among them. This motion for a resolution brings various positive points, such as investing sufficient funding, to make it a priority. We will therefore support Mrs Els Van Hoof's amendment to give a larger budget heading. I hope that we can go one step further than what was decided in committee: I believe that at least EUR 1 billion must be invested in mental health, bearing in mind the return effects I have just mentioned. The extension of reimbursement among psychologists is also a major factor, especially the fact of facilitating it, since the procedure today is very complex. There are basically very few real possibilities for patients, since only 500 psychologists are contracted out of the 15,000 psychologists in Belgium, with insufficient scheduled and potentially reimbursed sessions. In short, it is necessary to make this access much easier for psychologists, and to ensure that sufficient numbers of psychologists are contracted so that patients have access to the reimbursement. We also plead to facilitate early diagnosis, early referral of patients to services that can help them, which we have done in particular through amendments, We plead, even if this has not been retained in committee, for the establishment of mental health care routes, to really ensure this continuity and multidisciplinarity, which must not be based on the organisation of services, but first and foremost on the situation of the patient and the continuity of the care of patients, both with general practitioners, psychologists, psychiatrists, involving also the welfare sector, schools for our adolescents and the world of work. We also plead to increase the capacity of care in consultation, guaranteeing a consultation within 15 days. You know that this is an amendment that I tabled. Today, we often have to wait at least a month. We plead to increase the number of mobile teams. There are about ten in Belgium, compared to 500 in the Netherlands. These teams can intervene at home with the patient and his or her family. This is an extremely important point in a series of difficult and difficult situations. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I will not mention the whole subject, but these points seem to me to be particularly important. As I said, we will vote in favour of this proposal. I hope that today we will still be able to see some amendments to meet your approval. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u145	Mrs Fonck, thank you. Could you make an effort to speak louder? Or perhaps the microphone should be more suitable because, when you speak, I always have to make an effort to listen to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u146	Mr President, it is because I am not on your axis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u147	I do not know if it is a matter of axis, but I have already pointed out this problem. I would just like to increase the sound when you speak. I'm not deaf!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u148	We're talking about mental health anyway. It's not about ORL today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the authors of this motion for a resolution, which is and will continue to be supported by my Defi party. Funding for mental health care is certainly not a recent problem. We know that. The explosion of needs, too, by the way. This sector has been sounding alarm bells for years! However, the coronavirus crisis has revealed how important mental health is both in the private and the professional lives of everyone, both in the social and economic dimensions of our society. Alarm bells and advice to resist stress, anxiety and burnout have invaded our antennas, social networks and columns of the print press. Then came the time of study. This has been recalled by some of my colleagues, but I wanted to go back to it because their findings are staggering. First, a study conducted jointly by ULB and UCL has revealed that 71% of nurses are at risk of burnout compared to 35% before the crisis. There is also a study by UCL's Institute for Research in Psychological Sciences, which has shown that the health crisis and containment have caused more stress among 15 per cent of fathers and 15 per cent of mothers, affecting both parents' burnout and the resulting violence against children. These figures therefore illustrate the importance of psychological support to parents. And then there is also the business world that is being sensitized. According to an Acerta survey of companies, it appears that six out of ten companies intend to pay more attention to the physical and mental well-being of their employees in the context of reviving their activities. It is true that if psychological distress is not taken care of, it leads to absenteeism, since between one third and half of the new disability claims are due to mental disorders. This represents an increase of almost 60% in almost 10 years. All these observations indicate that it is time to take action. This motion for a resolution is a step in the right direction. I will not recall the content of this text, but I would nevertheless like to express my regret at the final version of this text, since my DéFI party would have liked to see particular attention given to all the people who allow society to function in times of crisis like the one we have been through and who are still in danger of re-emerging. We have heard quite rightly about the stress and the risk of burnout with the healthcare staff. I thank the authors for amending their original text to take it into account. It was really essential. However, other professionals are particularly vulnerable to pandemic stress. I am thinking of cashiers, police officers, paramedics, garbagemen, cleaning company personnel to name but a few. All are subject to the fear of being contaminated and contaminate their loved ones and are therefore subject to an increased risk of mental distress. I had therefore tabled an amendment in committee to recognise the specificity of all these professions, which are at the forefront of acute crisis management and with a view to implementing all the necessary means to improve and generalise their psychological care. Our amendment was rejected. I regret that, but that will not prevent my party from supporting this resolution and continuing work to better support mental health in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u150	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u151	Recital/Considerans Q(n) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 31 pronounced Dominic Sneppe cs (1211/7) Demand/Request 4 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 37 Els Van Hoof (1211/7) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 35 • Sofie Merckx (1211/7) Demand/Request 17(n) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 32 pronounced Dominic Sneppe cs (1211/7) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 36 • Sofie Merckx (1211/7) Demande/Question 18(n) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 33 • Dominic Sneppe cs (1211/7) • Dominic Sneppe cs (1211/7) • Dominic Sneppe cs (1211/7) • Demand/Request 19(n) 34 pronounced Dominic Sneppe cs (1211/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u152	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u153	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Franky Demon, Jan Briers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u154	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u155	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u157	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1322/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1322/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u158	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u159	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Sophie Thémont, Daniel Senesael, Marc Goblet, Ludivine Dedonder, Emir Kir, Eric Thiébaut, Hervé Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u160	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (736/6) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (736/6) The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the inclusion of skills development allowances in the calculation of pensions". The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the consideration of competence development allowances in the calculation of the pension." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mrs Cécile Thibaut. She's not here. I assume she's referring to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u161	Mr President, we shall be voting for this motion for a resolution with great conviction. Since 2007, the Calog staff's pension has been refused to be correctly calculated. Those staff shall form the administrative and logistical framework of the police and shall regularly train themselves during their careers, for which they receive certain premiums. They therefore have the right to include that contribution in the calculation of their pension. Not only did the trade unions say that, but the Court of Auditors also wrote in black and white in its opinion on the motion for a resolution. They paid 7.5 % of F.O.P. contributions - these are social contributions. Trade unions have been knocking on the table for more than 10 years to ensure that the pensions of these employees are properly calculated. The PVDA is very pleased that a vote is now being taken on the matter. Our party already pointed out in January that as many as 800 employees have retired from the administrative framework since 2010 without the right pension. The figures for 2010 are not available, so the number is likely to be much higher. The pension loss isn't too bad either. We have made the calculation: if a police officer receives a premium of EUR 1,300 per year, a single contractor would miss a pension of EUR 260 per year. For a contract with a family pension, this would mean no less than 325 euros a year. It is a pity that in our country too often it is not taken so closely with the social rights of workers. We saw that earlier with the miners and now again with the police officers. For years, successive Pension Ministers have admitted that there is a problem with the pensions of Calog staff, from Minister Daerden of the PS to Minister Tobback of sp.a and Minister Bacquelaine of the Liberals today. They all admitted that there was a problem, but that still hasn't been resolved. In committee, Open Vld challenged something else: it called it yet another irresponsible issue, but the workers paid social contributions for it. Moreover, the current President of the Chamber, Mr Dewael, when he was still Minister of the Interior, himself urged his colleague from Pensions to address the problem. The same applies to Mrs Turtelboom, when she was still Minister of the Interior. The Court of Auditors was also clear in its opinion: either the government pays back that contribution, or it includes it in the calculation of the pension. However, what is happening now is not at all correct. In fact, in the Committee on Finance, you once again proposed billions of euros in corporate gifts, but that aside. We are therefore pleased that, after the trade unions had to put pressure on them for a long time, the proposal will probably reach a majority. We will ensure that the Minister follows the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution under consideration will have been the result of longer than expected work, but it will have put all the elements in the government's hands to restore the rights of the public service workers who have contributed on wages linked to their willingness to train in order to offer an ever better service to the citizens and who are now deprived of the fair return of these contributions in the form of their retirement. This is a point that has nothing to do with the fact that it also recalls what pensions are, namely not a replacement allowance, but a deferred salary and collective savings. By voting on this motion for a resolution, we give the government a mandate to act; we do not replace it. We will, of course, be careful that he seizes it and turns our demands into action as soon as possible. We have accepted the amendment requested by the Minister of the Interior, which specifically targets the administrative and logistical framework of the federal police. This is the only category for which he is competent. But this does not draw any conclusions from the fact that parliamentary work has allowed the government to give all the cards to deal with all the categories of agents concerned. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to act and, in its current version, to act for a particular category, which does not limit its action. There is nothing to prevent him from taking advantage of the encryption exercise carried out by both the Court of Auditors and the Federal Pension Service. He was now aware of the amount required to address the issue of skill development premiums. In any event, it is likely that it will be important not to create distortions between the various agents concerned. As the Court of Auditors states, if the wrong were not rectified, there would be no legal solution other than to repay the contributions collected illegally. I will conclude by thanking all the members of the Committee on the Interior for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u163	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of Mrs Kitir. You must think she speaks, a more beautiful image. We agree with the words of praise and thanks from previous speakers. The adoption of the motion for a resolution is a good thing, because it calls for competence contributions to be included in the calculation of the pension. As the other speakers have already pointed out, contributions have also been paid. A fundamental principle of our system is that, if the contributions are paid, they should also be able to count for the calculation of the pension. We hope that, after the adoption of the text, the government will work quickly on its implementation and will therefore include the competence premiums for the calculation of pensions. The pensioners involved today and later deserve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u164	Mr Bertels, I congratulate you on the brevity. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u165	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u166	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Peter De Roover, Michael Freilich, Theo Francken, Darya Safai.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u167	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (967/7) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (967/7) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Ms. Darya Safai and Mr. Michel De Maegd referred to the written report. I do not see any of the speakers on the list. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u168	• 37 • Steven Creyelman cs (96 7/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u169	• 38 • Steven Creyelman cs (96 7/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u170	• 39 • Steven Creyelman cs (96 7/8) Demand/Request 20(n) • 40 • Steven Creyelman cs (96 7/8) Demande/Question 21(n) • 41 • Steven Creyelman cs (96 7/8) Demand/Request 22(n) • 42.... Steven Creyelman cs (96 7/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u171	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u172	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: John Crombez, Christophe Lacroix, Goedele Liekens, Simon Moutquin, Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u173	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (972/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (972/5) The title has been changed by the Committee on External Relations to "proposal for a resolution on so-called anti-LGBT areas in Poland". The title was changed by the Committee on External Relations to "proposal for a resolution on the so-called LGBT-free zones in Poland." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Ms Darya Safai, referred to the written report. The first speaker on the list is Mr Moutquin, but I do not see him. In this case, you have the floor, Mr. Lacroix. I was desperate! Finally, it is no big deal: we will recover the entire length of the previous discussion that should have taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u174	Mr President, thank you for your particularly effective presidency! Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the conservative forces everywhere are trying to weaken and deny fundamental rights and to challenge ethical and social progress. In the European Union, Hungary and Poland are among the most cited examples not to be followed. They are in fact at the heart of a news that I dare call putrid. However, it is not an act of denigration for me and for the Socialist Group, but a reminder. When we join the European Union, it is also and above all because we have the unwavering will to respect its fundamental values and rights - including the fight against all forms of discrimination. And I apply that same reading regardless of the Member State where infringements of these values and rights are found. As Mr Crombez's excellent text, which I have co-signed, indicates, it is clear that the rights of LGBTQI+ people in Polish society are seriously threatened and that the political actors in this country are fuelling a serious climate of intolerance and discrimination against this community. Homophobia is already a serious problem in Poland for a long time. As a reminder, last December, the European Parliament again noted with concern the existence in this country of dozens of areas which officially declare themselves "free of LGBTQI+ ideology". In some localities, stickers have even been distributed to traders via the press, not to ask for local consumption, but to mean that LGBT people should be excluded and banned in these shops. These initiatives were not condemned by the PiS, the ruling party in Poland. Discrimination thus seems to become a State policy, as well as other liberticide drifts. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is clearly totally unacceptable. With this text, my colleague Crombez proposes concrete action by the House, which would be a strong support for the government. The House must, in fact, immediately support the Polish LGBTQI+ community, which is seriously threatened in a country located not thousands of kilometres away, but in the heart of Europe, in the heart of historic Europe and not just in today's political Europe. That is why it is urgent to adopt a resolution expressing the House's position on this matter. This is a very topical text, while the second round of the Polish presidential elections will take place in a few days' time, on 12 July. How can we not be shocked by the recent words of the outgoing Polish president who is running for re-election and who, at an election campaign meeting, described "LGBT ideology" as "neobolshevism", as if being homosexual was an ideology that the modern world would try to inculcate into children? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I measure my words because I am deeply shocked and outraged by these statements by the Polish President. It is a sickly rhetoric by which some like to stir up hatred, oppose our citizens and advocate a traditional family form by pretending to protect children from the spread of different models. These remarks are unworthy of a candidate for the highest positions of the Polish state, a function which requires that he be the one of all Poles and not of some who might be more frequent than others in his eyes. I think the cup is full today. It is time for concrete action and I hope that Minister Geens in charge of European affairs will take the necessary steps. It is essential, through this motion for a resolution and through our daily parliamentary work, to recall the importance of the resolute fight against any form of direct or indirect discrimination, whether on grounds of sexual orientation, gender, sexual rights, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u175	This situation in Poland is simply unacceptable and inexcusable. In this context, my Belgian colleagues from the N-VA, members of the same group in the European Parliament as the Polish PiS, must assume their responsibilities. Because my colleagues at the N-VA are still Belgian, I hope for a long time, even if we do not share at all the same ideas, nor the same desires or plans. This work must be carried out both within our country and in all the countries making up the European Union and the Council of Europe, as a pioneering intergovernmental organisation in the field of human rights and as guardian of them. This must be done through independent monitoring mechanisms that assess respect for human rights and democratic practices on the territory of the Member States of the European Union and the Council of Europe in a binding manner. As indicated in committee, I too have taken a more comprehensive initiative by tabling a text on the defence of the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex people in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in which I sit for our Assembly with other colleagues and where I am currently rapporteur on the issue of discrimination against LGBTQI+ in the South Caucasus. I would like once again to thank my Dutch-speaking Socialist colleague for this initiative, which we will strongly support, and which reminds us that while legal advances in favour of LGBTQI+ people are essential and must continue throughout the Member States, we must also ensure that these advances translate into real equality rooted in our societies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u176	Mr President, I apologize for my delay. It will be a rather short intervention. I sincerely thank my colleague, Mr Crombez, for the sp.a., not only for the tabling of this motion for a resolution, but for its openness to co-signature. It is important and urgent for this Parliament to speak out for the rights of LGBT people. This is the case for these rights all over the world. We know that this Parliament has already discussed Mrs Liekens' resolution on Uganda. Here, there's an alarm cry, there's a specificity. I grew up thinking that the Europe in which I lived was a Europe of the rights of all. Today it is in Europe, in Poland, that what I am, part of what I am, is a problem for a part of the Polish political class. It is cold behind the back to think that my Europe, the one I thought was open to part of my identity, has a problem with this aspect. I think it is important for this Parliament to send a message to Mr Goffin, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also to Mr Geens, the Minister for Justice, and to ask them to act very clearly against the drifts of the Polish government. These drifts include questionable comparisons between homosexuality and paedophilia and promotion, or at least silence towards these areas "anti-LGBT ideology". The extreme European right – and therefore also Belgian – attacked migrants yesterday (and still today). Today, she attacks LGBT people. It will attack women and others tomorrow. We have a duty of constant vigilance with regard to these attacks. In addition, we must all be attentive, and not only in the face of clearly identified political formations on the far right. When a secretary of state compares or laughs at the dress of some men, or transsexuality on social networks, it actually also prepares the ground for practices of the kind that exist in Poland today. I call on all of you to come out of political postures sometimes and work for the rights of LGBT people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u177	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that attention should be paid to human rights and identity in general and sexual orientation in particular. I think I can say that this attitude is accepted in globo in our Western society. When it comes to growing intolerance towards Holebi's, I can tell you that this also lives in our group. That is why I regret that the author of this proposal has not followed the example of his colleagues in the Flemish Parliament and has previously given priority to a general proposal for a resolution on the rights of the Igbt community. Having said that, I would like to briefly reiterate why the Flemish Interest expressed reservations about this proposal. As we know, some time ago in Poland there was a fuss about the symbolic and non-enforceable motions in which the local PIS departments declared free from lgbt ideology a number of villages and cities, through stickers distributed by the Gazeta Polska, and thus actually made a statement in the cultural struggle between the PIS and the Citizen Platform. One can be for or against that statement, but mostly activists from the left-wing political spectrum have concluded that this would have been an attempt to physically deny people from the Igbt community access to a number of villages or communities. However, there is no evidence of this, as I mentioned in committee. On the contrary, in Poland gayparades take place ipso facto and the court even guarantees that such gayparades take place in the so-called lgbt-free zones. Consequently, these zones do not in any way restrict the freedom in this area. As I mentioned in committee, there are therefore no lgbt-free zones in Poland in that sense. This argument also undermines the basis for this motion for a resolution. We have also indicated this in committee. Moreover, what has happened in Poland is in stark contrast to how many other countries, mainly with an Islamic regime, are opposed to the community concerned. It is punishable in over 60 countries as a man to have sex with other men. In about a dozen countries, homosexuality is even punishable by death. These are mainly Islamic states which rely on some passages from the Qur'an to impose the death penalty on this issue. In our view, this form of real discrimination would be better pursued, rather than these rather merely symbolic dossiers, with which we can, once again, agree or disagree. Mr President, at the beginning of my speech I said that I regret that the author does not wish to deal with the issue in a broader way. I believe I have understood from previous proposals, including the proposal that was voted on here some time ago, on the criminality of homosexuality in Uganda, that I am not alone with this. It is for this reason that our group retables the amendment from the committee. That amendment specifically calls for any country, anywhere in the world, where homophobia or membership of the Igbt community is punished, to be expressly condemned with whatever punishment. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really mean it and are in favour of protecting holebi's and people belonging to the Igbt community, you simply cannot help but support this amendment. Otherwise, I wouldn't dare look at myself in the mirror. She is not here right now, but I am addressing Mrs Liekens specifically, who voted against this amendment in committee, while a few weeks earlier she co-signed this specific amendment with the colleagues of the Défi Group. I found that particularly regrettable. I would really advise her to look at the Flemish Parliament, where colleagues dare to vote in honour and conscience, sometimes against the party line. That must be possible in a democracy. I would advise her to read the content of the amendment and, on that basis, to determine her voting behaviour. She told me afterwards that she would have wanted to, but well. Fortunately, my group and I can look at ourselves in the mirror. In fact, at all times. In committee, Mr President, colleagues, we abstained from voting on this proposal for previous reasons. We shall do so in the final vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u178	Mr President, of course we support this resolution, which seeks to defend minorities, in this case LGBTQI+ minorities against discrimination and violence in Poland. This resolution is addressed, by its title, to the situation in Poland. However, even if we support this resolution at 100%, we must not forget that there is also a struggle to be waged in our own country with regard to discrimination against minorities, especially LGBTQI+. This cause still deserves our attention and maximum investment from Parliament as a whole because it is not won. There must be no discrimination or condemnation on the basis of sexual orientation. We therefore support this resolution and stress that the fight is still to be fought at home on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u179	Mr President, I would certainly like to thank my fellow Members, and they are many, who support this resolution. I also have very little desire to say anything political about it or to point out the differences. I find it remarkable today that everyone in plenary is expressing their views on this issue in order to ensure that people can be who they are, especially in terms of orientation. That has not always been the case, but the entire Parliament is doing so now. I would like to thank everyone for that without exception. If we find that with 150 Members of Parliament, we should do the same. I tabled this resolution in January, rather early. There are serious facts happening in Poland. Poland, that's in Europe. That's close. There are many Polish people who live, live and work in Belgium. We're July by now, and it's only gotten worse. Colleagues have already referred to it. The statements made by political leaders against Igbt during the election campaign in Poland were terrible. It is true that there are no lgbt-free zones. That is why the resolution states: the so-called Igbt-free zones. The impact on these people is enormous. People who charge that people shouldn't be who they are and shouldn't show their orientation are being attacked. The Attorney General is pushing the Attorney General to attack those people and destroys lives. It happens nearby. That's in Europe. That is enough for me to respond very clearly and firmly to what is happening with the Belgian Parliament and hopefully with the Belgian Government - there is a minister who will certainly support this - because, once again, it is getting worse and worse. This Parliament very often underlines that it does not accept that people, wherever they are in the world, are disadvantaged by the structures and the institutions for the sake of their orientation. That is a good thing. However, we must not fail to make abuses, including in Europe, specific. We do the same for religions. I believe that the debate should not even be about who discriminates, where the problem comes from or how it happens, by the people or by political leaders. This must simply be a general statement that we do not accept and that we will always ensure that our country, Belgium, responds to an attack on what has been fiercely fought. It is not for long that there is a broad acceptance that people may be who they are, especially in their mode. In Belgium too, it is not clear that this is accepted. There are reactions. We must react strongly to that. Let us do the same when it happens in other countries, especially in Europe. As I know, for the first time, our Parliament says so explicitly that we accept any mode of people and that we always respond to a restriction of freedom on the basis of orientation. Let us therefore vote unanimously in favour of this resolution. Maybe that call sounds weird, but I suggest we give that signal. That is why I said that I did not want to say anything political about it. There are always reasons not to support a text. Those who truly believe that together we must preserve the mode of people, I call upon them to act accordingly. To that end, you have been legitimized as an elected representative. There are other things that need to be resolved, let us do so in particular. However, what is now before us is urgent, because it is getting worse and worse in Poland. Minister, I suggest that you give Poland a fairly quick signal that we are absolutely not taking the current situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u180	"Continuing applause" will be included in the report. Mr Dallemagne is not present. I shall pass the floor to Mrs Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the political drift that is taking place in Poland today. Since 2015, the Polish government has been engaged in an unbridled struggle to break down democratic barriers and undermine the most fundamental values of the rule of law. In view of the results of the first round of the presidential election held last Sunday in Poland, this affront to European democratic values seems to have good days ahead since the Right and Justice Party has managed to maintain its influence through ever more worrying disinformation campaigns. LGBT ideology, as he calls it, has become the core of this presidential campaign. While Andrzej Duda has signed a charter for the family in which he undertakes not to allow marriage or the adoption of children by homosexual couples, his main opponent, Rafal Trzaskowski, represents, on the contrary, a hope of tolerance for the LGBT community. In this context, the recent statements of the outgoing President are particularly shocking in that they compare the LGBT community with a neo-Bolshevism. Law and Justice MPs go even further by denying that LGBT people are people. They have no shame in saying that Poland would be much more beautiful without them. Amnesty International has for years denounced the immobility of the Polish authorities in the face of daily violence against the LGBT community. But the violence doesn't stop there. Today, in some cities, there are anti-LGBT areas in which, for example, private services can be denied to LGBT people on religious grounds. The Gazeta Polska, one of the most radical far-right newspapers in Poland, published a special issue a few days ago in which it offered its readers a sticker on which one could read: "LGBT free zone". This sticker is intended to be placed on the store fronts to inform LGBT people that they are not welcome. Unfortunately, this shameful process is reminiscent of the one we knew during the darkest pages of our history, a process that we hoped never to know again, all the more so since Poland suffered enormously from it. We can no longer close our eyes to banishing a whole community for what it is. That is why it is clear that my group and I will support this motion for a resolution, which I would like to thank the author and the co-signatories. It is imperative to remind Poland of the commitments it made when entering the European Union, which is, above all, a Union of values. Human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, fundamental rights, pluralism and tolerance are the values that make us what we are. Hate and rejection have no place in it. This reminder must also be made available to other European States, which also consider that they no longer have to respect these values, now that they are members of the European Union. I am thinking in particular of a country that is dear to me, Hungary, where the LGBT community has become the new target of the ultraconservatives in power. So far, Viktor Orbán's nationalist government was not really interested in sexual minorities, preferring to criticize foreigners, migrants, the Roma community. Today, however, Fidesz, the party of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, expresses his homophobia in an increasingly open and uncomplex way, to the delight of Jobbik, the extreme right-wing Hungarian party. What is happening in Hungary shows how much we must never lower our guard, because, while the decriminalization of homosexuality dates back to 1962 and a version of the PACS has existed since 2009 in Hungary, the return of Conservative Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to power has marked a return of traditional values to the detriment of progressive values. Since 2011, an amendment to the Constitution stipulates that marriage must necessarily consist of the union of a man and a woman. The far right is also very virulent towards the LGBT community. Her impunity has freed her homophobic speech in Hungary. Major assaults take place mainly during gay pride. And when one is a victim of aggression, one tries to silence the origin and homophobic dimension of it. Being gay and doing politics is also not possible. Coming out can cost someone their career, as was the case for Klára Ungár. As a result, a large part of the LGBT community lives its sexuality clandestinely. In fact, there is a great difference, when you are homosexual, to live in Budapest or in a small provincial town, depending on the social class from which you come. Today, we have a duty to place our country alongside the European Parliament, which adopted a resolution at the end of December last year to condemn these LGBT areas. After the independence of the judiciary, freedom of the press and, most recently, abortion, respect for minorities is being undermined. If we do not use all the means at our disposal, who knows what the next motion for a resolution will be about, which we will have to vote here to condemn the actions of Law and Justice, the Polish party? We are fortunate that our country has progressive legislation on LGBT rights, but we cannot lower our guard, as I said, and wait for the enemies of freedom to undermine the workings of our European democracies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u182	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u183	Recital/Considerans M(n) • 8 • Steven Creyelman cs (972/6) Demand/Request 6(n) • 9 • Steven Creyelman cs (972/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u184	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u185	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u186	Mr President, my colleague Mr Bayet and I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u187	Several members have subscribed to the general discussion. I don't see Mrs. Depoorter. Mr Gilkinet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u188	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, during this session, we discussed very important issues, but it has a potentially very positive impact on the lives of hundreds of thousands of families in our country. The Maintenance Claims Service (SECAL) was established under the Rainbow government in 2003, particularly under the leadership of environmentalists and at the request of feminist movements that have been seeking for years mechanisms to recover unpaid maintenance payments. It is an essential mechanism for women, children and the fight against child poverty. One could even call the maintenance claims department – even if it is attached to the Finance FPS – a new branch of social security. There are more separations, divorces and maintenance claims to be paid. One of the factors in families' ability to live with dignity is the correct payment of maintenance claims. This was an important first step, but unfortunately, the creation of a genuine universal service has not been achieved for various reasons. The original text provided for an income ceiling for the recipient parent, which will be terminated. Average-income families could not have access to the maintenance claims service because a monthly intervention ceiling was provided. It has not changed since then, which is problematic since the increase in the cost of living is there. Services were insufficiently provided and equipped to meet all demands. If there were interesting legal arrangements such as the establishment of a monitoring committee composed of parliamentarians accompanying the administrative services or the preparation of annual reports that would have allowed Parliament to monitor the progress of the dossiers, all this was set aside and it took many parliamentary questions to remind successive finance ministers that their mission was also to ensure that the SECAL functioned properly. Fortunately, however, developments have been noted. At the end of the previous legislature, with the government in day-to-day affairs, we had been able to find an alternative majority - a coalition of family-friendly parties - to raise the income ceiling for the beneficiary parent up to €2,200. Of course, I am happy about that. And then, here's this text, which I find quite great, interesting in its device, in that it proposes an automatic recovery system of unpaid debts, as is already the case for road fines which are not honoured and which are then recovered when the tax is paid - provided that the citizen concerned is solvent. The result is a triple effect. First, unpaid debts are recovered for the benefit of families, mothers, children and the fight against child poverty. Second, this results in a lower budgetary cost to the Crown, since unrecovered debts, Minister, were previously to be offset by the general budget. Finally, this will put pressure on creditors who would be tempted not to pay their debts to their former spouse and to their children, as they will now know that the stick will be stretched behind the door to induce them to pay what they owe. Minister, and this does not happen to me often in this gallery, I say congratulations and thank you for this work! I also congratulate your administration on the drafting of this text. When we examined it in committee, I had already thanked you. I also welcome those colleagues who have tabled amendments with a view to completely removing the ceiling. We had taken a first step. It was a matter of accomplishing a new one. Thank you therefore to Mrs Thémont and to all those who supported this amendment. From now on, thanks to the vote on this text, the income due to the beneficiary parent - who is often the mother - will no longer be limited. I repeat, this text is an essential step towards universal service. Mr Minister, you know what I'm going to come back with now, since, together with my colleague Mr Dieter Vanbesien, we have tabled another amendment to review the monthly ceiling on intervention for children, when the amount fixed by law has not changed for a very long time. Various studies, including the League of Families, speak of an average amount of 250 euros, whereas we are here at 175 euros. At first, with a lot of ambition and voluntarism, we thought that we were going to do the same as for the amount of the mother's income, or in any case the parent to whom maintenance claims are due, and remove any ceiling. We were close to the goal in the Finance Committee, as our amendment received 8 out of 17 votes, while it needed 9 votes. At second reading, we came back with an amendment that kept a ceiling, but by doubling the amount, which allows us to reach more families. I have felt you, Minister, interested and hesitant in this text. Your hesitation did not convince the members of the current majority or the groups that had voted against our amendment to join us. The result was the same. But we persevere! With Dieter Vanbesien, we are resubmitting this amendment, hoping to convince you, Mr Piedboeuf and all the colleagues who would like to join us, and hoping that the third time will be the right one. Because indeed, there is no reason to limit the intervention of the maintenance service to an amount fixed almost 20 years ago. It is very logical to index it. We had a debate on the cost. It is true that I have announced, in a somewhat voluntarist way, that the cost would be zero. I would like to correct here, in plenary, by saying that the cost will be marginal, since you have set up, with this automatic debt recovery mechanism, the fatal weapon towards creditors who are not willing to do so. The cost of claims that would have to be paid instead of creditors by the State before recovery will be quite marginal. That seems obvious to me. In any case, we trust that your system will work. This amendment, even if it has a cost that will be marginal, will have an influence that will be anything but marginal on the concrete life, month after month, of the families concerned, who must now count every euro to finish the month. If this amendment is adopted and the amount of the maintenance claim is fair, fixed either by judgment or on the basis of an amicable agreement between the families, these families will be able to live in dignity. It is not every day that our Parliament has the opportunity, for a "rikiki" cost, to have a "mousse costo" effect, which is very important for all families. I conclude by saying that we have all found that the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic have resulted in families on the brink of the abyss that may have plunged or plunged into poverty. Divorce, separation, non-payment of maintenance claims are obvious factors of poverty. Our country has made numerous commitments at Belgian and international level to combat child poverty. This is a very small step for the FPS Finances, for the federal state and a huge step for the families concerned. I therefore ask you - this is the third time that we have given you the opportunity - to support this amendment, which is truly modest in its form and in its budgetary impact, but enormous for the families concerned. I feel like I'm convincing you about this. Mr. Minister of Finance, I would like to convince you of one last thing. You inherited a beautiful administration, the FPS Finances. You have taken over this function and you are doing it with a lot of heart, which I appreciate. I would like to tell you that the maintenance service is too little known and too little recognized within the Finance FPS. On a regular basis, we found that there were too few staff dedicated to these family support and debt recovery missions. I therefore also ask you to be attentive in terms of equipment, presence in the regions and information to the beneficiaries. The cost is limited but the effects are enormous for families, mothers and children, and I know that you have as much to do with fighting child poverty as we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u189	Mrs. Depoorter joined us later. As before, we are mild in that and so I am giving her the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u190	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to speak. I will try to keep my speech brief. Mr Minister, we fully supported the unabridged draft law. We stress that DAVO is a special service with a special function, in particular the provision of advances to single parent families who do not receive their alimony after divorce. This has already been mentioned by Mr Gilkinet. In fact, it is an advance that is being paid and that has to be made with the ex-partner, with whom agreements have been made. That is why the draft law, which intended to collect these advances more, is absolutely justified. We're definitely partners in that, too. We are also a partner in DAVO itself. After all, we are seeing an effective increase in the number of applications. Unfortunately, we are also seeing an increase in the number of children for whom applications are submitted over the years. The draft is therefore perfectly justified. In the amendment adopted in committee, wage conditions or net income conditions have been removed. I would like to refer Members to the previous legislature, which increased the net revenue from EUR 1,800 to EUR 2,200. This has not yet been evaluated. No assessment has yet been made of the need for income or net income above 2,200 euros. No evaluation has been made of the fact that when an ex-partner has a new partner and is therefore no longer single and their two incomes help each other, that this has not been taken into account. However, the creditor must not fulfil any conditions. We therefore have questions about the way in which the amendment was adopted in committee and the way in which that income limit was established. I heard Mr van Groen say that poverty policy must be forward-looking and bold. That's exactly where the shoe is pinching because DAVO wasn't founded as an institution to fight poverty in a sustainable way with public funds. In 2018 we did not recover 400 million euros of advances paid by DAVO. So it is not a small operation, as we are told, it is a structural operation and quite a lot of money that flows to our families in this way. The N-VA Group believes that we can do much better about structural poverty policies through our OMCWs if we do not intend to recover the money. This does not alter the vision of the establishment of DAVO, namely that single parent families who cannot rely on the agreed alimony after divorce should be advanced. I come now to today's amendment, which raises the advances. We are not in favour of this either, just for the same reason. We believe that it is really important to evaluate DAVO before we take action here and open up the money supply. We need a good, structural recovery policy so that our resources are returned to the state before they are spent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will come back to the adoption of my amendment, which aims to enable all single-parent families, mainly single women with children, to benefit from SEchal advances when they face non-payment of maintenance. Because of the income ceiling, so far a whole range of people simply did not have access to it. My group has been making this proposal for several years now, believing that SETAL must be accessible to all and become a true universal service, as it was imagined at the time of its creation. At the end of the previous legislature, we had worked together, as my colleague Gilkinet said, and obtained the increase of this ceiling to 2,200 euros. This was a step in the right direction, but for us it was still insufficient and it was necessary to continue the fight. Should I recall the difficult situation in which many single-parent families find themselves? A situation of precariousness highlighted in particular by the inter-federal barometer of poverty and which inevitably increases when maintenance claims are not paid. Should I also point out that the health crisis that we are experiencing today is having an impact on and impact on single-parent families all the more? The Family League recalls that more than eight out of ten single-parent families are finding it increasingly difficult to close their end of the month. Finally, should I recall that this economic crisis, no doubt one of the most important in the last few decades, is obviously likely to precipitate more and more single-parent families into poverty and that the role of SECAL, if fundamental at all times, will be all the more so in the future? The amendment voted in the Finance Committee therefore provides for the outright removal of the income condition currently determined in the law to benefit from monthly advances on unpaid maintenance payments. The vote on this amendment is of an urgent nature, since the current crisis places many families in extremely difficult situations (loss of employment, temporary unemployment) and this measure will indeed constitute a measure to combat the poverty of single-parent families, mainly women. Ladies and gentlemen, my group welcomes this major step forward. In this regard, I thank all the groups that have allowed it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u192	What is in principle a technical adjustment of the operation of the DAVO has very important effects in practice, not only because many provisions of the Code of Forced and Friendly Claims can apply to maintenance claims, but also because the tax mediation service becomes competent, which can then look for solutions from a type of helicopter view. This is only positive for all concerned, for the single-parent families and children. As far as the amendment aimed at increasing the advance of EUR 175 is concerned, I would like to repeat briefly what we said in committee. We want to enter into the debate on the increase in the advance, just as we discussed and supported the increase in the revenue ceiling in the previous legislature, but we want to do so on the basis of correct and recent figures, on the basis of an evaluation and on the basis of an update of an important study by Professor Pacolet in 2012, which we requested in committee in January. In this way, we can reasonably and responsibly decide whether or not the increase should be made and what order of order it should be. That is also why we will not support the amendment, which is based on this really technical draft law. We will support the whole of the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u193	Mr President, the PVDA-PTB Group will support this draft law. If an ex-partner does not pay the maintenance allowance that a family is entitled to, and if the public authorities advance the compensation, then it is only natural that we recover that advance payment from that ex-partner as efficiently as possible. This draft law will indeed make that mechanism more efficient, which is a good thing. I am also pleased that, in one movement, the income condition was abolished in order to obtain advance payments from the Welfare Service. That condition wasn't necessary. The DAVO should just be there for everyone. Today, another amendment has been tabled to increase the amount of advances. Unfortunately, that amendment was voted down by the right-wing parties at the committee meeting. We will also be supporting that amendment again today. For the government it costs nothing extra, as the money is eventually recovered from the person who should have paid the alimony payment, but it does mean a push in the back for the families who are not financially comfortable. It's hard for us to argue with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u194	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Alimony Claims Service is an important service, with an important social function in society. This service is of great importance to many single parents who have been abandoned or are abandoned by their ex-partner. The introduction of a harmonised recovery procedure for non-payers of alimony payments, the maintenance money for children, is a good thing. That is what we said in committee and I fully support. The recovery procedures for this maintenance fee are now aligned with those for normal tax and non-fiscal claims. This should lead to more efficient collection of alimony debts. According to the Minister, the recovery rate is now 52%. This percentage needs to go upstairs. That is a good thing. Parents must fulfil their obligations to their children and to their ex-partner, if that is the case. Harmonisation of recovery is a good thing. We would also like to support the amendment on the abolition of income conditions in order to be able to claim the monthly advances. This amendment has arisen partly on the legitimate question of the Women's Council. The Women's Council has been asking that for a long time. This is a justified improvement for many single parents with children. We fully supported that. This is an old question from the Women's Council which is finally being answered. We have already had this discussion and would like to have it again. We want an increase in the maximum amount of the monthly advance. This maximum amount now amounts to EUR 150, while judges grant an average of EUR 250 per child under maintenance obligations. Those records are known, they're not new. In a court decision of an average of EUR 250, the single parent who is abandoned by his or her ex-partner cannot even obtain that full amount as an advance. We're way under there. We therefore believe that it is not unfair to increase that amount. Hopefully you'll come to that moving insight as well. Single parents, especially the children, deserve that. We must not leave them in the cold financially, literally and figuratively. Colleagues, we no longer need an evaluation. Evaluations are already plentiful. The risk of risk poverty in single parents is greater than average. There are all kinds of scientific evidence for that. That risk is even greater if the single parent is abandoned by his or her ex-partner and does not want to pay his or her mandatory maintenance fees. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support the amendment to increase the maximum advances that can be paid by the Alimony Claims Office. For us, a strong government, with a strong DAVO, capable of carrying out its task well, quickly and efficiently, must contribute to a strong advance system. DAVO can and must help that single parent. We are consistent in that. We need to help the single parent, and his or her children, who are abandoned by his ex-partner. The government has to help out there. I round the circle with point 1: the government must also recover from the unwilling partner who does not fulfil his obligations. So far, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u195	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will, of course, support this bill, which is a great step forward, especially since it repeals the limits on access to the Maintenance Claims Service (SECAL). Parents, families, single-parent families will therefore be assisted by the latter. It should be recalled that four out of ten single-parent families do not regularly receive the debts to which they are entitled. However, this is often an important part of the household budget. This project is therefore essential, first and foremost, for children. As much as we welcome this aspect, we regret the fact that the ceilings are maintained for advances on food contributions. Indeed, 175 euros maximum per child per month is little. We know that the cost of a child is much higher. Perhaps the result of the forthcoming vote on the amendment will be clarified. Hope gives life! We'll see. If this is not the case, I can assure you that we will put the work back on the table. In fact, we tabled a bill on the subject, which has already been a while ago. I hope that what is not possible today will be tomorrow. It also seems important to me to empower the real debtors. That is why we have tabled a bill in the Justice Committee; it is under consideration. It is intended to enable the family court judge to decide, from the time of the judgment on the decision on the maintenance contribution, a delegation of money (salary or replacement income) that could be executed, from the time the maintenance debtor did not perform for two monthly payments. This would allow the clerk to notify this delegation of money by simple judicial filing to the employer or to the debtor of income, and thus to quickly collect this maintenance claim. A current difficulty is that the creditor parent must return to the court to claim this delegation of money, which he does not do in a very large number of cases, preferring to turn to the Support Claims Service where the preparation of the file is eminently heavier. This text could make it possible to empower real debtors, to supplement the SECAL scheme, to supplement the legal arsenal to effectively combat the impoverishment of single-parent families and to limit the call to SECAL advances because there are difficulties in this area at budgetary level. We will vote in favour of this text, which is a good step forward, even if others will have to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u196	As Mr Bertels has pointed out, the DAVO is an important service, which may indeed not have the familiarity he should have. To show how important this service is, last year the total volume of advances was around EUR 30 million. These advances are given for alimony payments that should have been paid. The amendment we are making is actually based on the new Code of Forced and Friendly Recovery, which was approved by Parliament in the previous legislature. What we are doing now is actually harmonizing the recovery rules, which are also applied to the recovery of the DAVO. It must be understood that we will do this better by using this technique, but that the recovery will not be total. This improvement is being used by some in this Parliament to say that, in this case, we must be able to blow up ceilings and go further. I am sensitive to this argument and understand that we could better help parents in difficulty in this way, but do not think that it has no budgetary cost. This does not correspond to reality. Sometimes, even with a new cover, some parents have. There's nothing to recover. I was also more in favour of evaluating the increase in the ceiling from EUR 1,800 to EUR 2,200. An amendment has been accepted. The evaluation did not take place in the end. I can imagine that the increase in the ceiling was acceptable, while recovery will now be improved. I would have done an evaluation first, but the increase can ultimately be defended. There is a second amendment for the vote. I will allow Parliament to give its opinion on this. However, we have to take into account the fact that if all ceilings are removed, moral responsibility for a piece will be watered down. In the end, the system must respond to the problem that parents do not accept their responsibilities and abandon their alimony obligations. The more we say that there is an advance system, the more we remove moral duty from parents. I understand that people want to intervene in distress. On the other hand, the first responsible person is still the one who has the maintenance obligation. I understand that another amendment is intended to remove the other ceiling. In my view, if we were to choose between the two measures, I think it is the one proposed now that should be given priority. But the other one has already come to committee. So I accept that. Is it a good thing to blow up both ceilings? I leave to Parliament's discretion the choice of acceptable level. One last element I would like to mention is that the mandate is being extended here and the role of the tax mediation service strengthened. It is aligned here with the new recovery code. I would like to stress that there was a good interaction in committee and that there was a lot of knowledge on the dossier. The changes that have eventually been made through the committee show that committee work can be a good complement to what the government is doing. I would like to thank all the committee members for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u197	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u198	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1105/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1105/8) The title has been amended by the committee in draft law amending the Act of 21 February 2003 establishing a Maintenance Claims Service within the FPS Finances with a view to abolishing the income condition for granting advances on maintenance due to children and to making applicable certain provisions of the Code on the amicable and forced collection of tax and non-tax claims and amending article 11 of the Act of 29 March 2018 aimed at expanding the tasks and strengthening the role of the tax conciliation service." The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending the Law of 21 February 2003 establishing a Maintenance Claims Service to the FPS Finance with a view to abolishing the income condition for the granting of advances on the maintenance money due to children and making certain provisions of the Code of Friendly and Forced Recovery of Tax and Non-fiscal Claims and amending Article 11 of the Law of 29 March 2018 to extend contracts and strengthen the role of the Tax Mediation Service." The bill has 29 articles. The draft law has 29 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u199	Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Reserved: the amendment. Sustained: the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u200	Article adopted by article: 1 to 29
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u201	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u202	By letter of 3 June 2020, the President of the Constitutional Court stated that, following the retirement of Mr André Alen on 25 September 2020, a vacancy for a Dutch-speaking judge would be published in the Belgian Monitor on 26 June 2020. By letter dated 3 June 2020, the President of the Constitutional Court announced that a vacancy for the office of Dutch-speaking judge will be published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 June 2020 as a result of Mr André Alen's retirement on 25 September 2020. In accordance with article 32, paragraph 1, of the Special Act of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court, judges of the Court are appointed for life by the King on a double list, alternately presented by the House of Representatives and the Senate. The list shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 32 of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court, the judges of the Court are appointed for life by the King from a list of two candidates, in turn nominated by the Chamber of Representatives and by the Senate. The list shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. The President of the Constitutional Court states that it is now up to the House to present a list. The President of the Constitutional Court states that it is now up to the Chamber to propose a list. This vacancy will be filled on the basis of Article 34(1) of the Special Law (Professional Legal Category). The vacancy will be provided on the basis of Article 34, § 1, 1°, of the special law (category of professional lawyer). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u203	The next item is the election for the appointment of the Clerk of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services (Committee P). The next item is the vote on the appointment of the Registrar of the Standing Committee on Police Control (Committee P) Ms. Eline Van De Weghe's candidacy was announced at the May 7, 2020 plenary session. Ms Eline Van De Weghe's candidacy was announced at the plenary session of 7 May 2020. The candidate was heard by the Special Committee on Parliamentary Support of Standing Committee P and Standing Committee R on 29 June 2020. Ms Cécile Thibaut reported on the hearing in the Conference of Presidents on 1 July 2020. On 29 June 2020 the candidate was heard by the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. Ms Cécile Thibaut reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020. Since there is only one candidate, the House may declare Ms. Eline Van De Weghe elected as Clerk of the Standing Committee on Police Services, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the House. Since there is only one candidate, Mrs Eline Van De Weghe may, as Registrar of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, apply Article 157 No. 6, of the Rules of Procedure, declared to be elected. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u204	Voters 101 Stemmen White or invalid 21 Blank or invalid Valid [[80]] Geldig Two-thirds majority 54 Two-thirds majority Actual members Permanent members Mr. Luc Willems obtained 71 votes Mr Luc Willems received 71 votes M. Hendrik Pinxten a obtenu 7 voix Mr Hendrik Pinxten received 7 votes Mr. Frank Judo obtained 70 votes Mr Frank Judo received 70 votes Mr Olivier Faelens obtained 8 votes Mr Olivier Faelens received 8 votes Mr. Dany Lesciauskas obtained 69 votes Mr Dany Lesciauskas received 69 votes Ms. Béatrice van de Put obtained 9 votes Ms Béatrice van de Put received 9 votes Mr. Eric Robert obtained 59 votes Mr Eric Robert received 59 votes Mr. Jean-François Husson obtained 19 votes Mr Jean-François Husson received 19 votes For the first term (N) For the first mandate (N) Having obtained a two-thirds majority, Mr. Willems is hereby declared an effective member of the Information and Advice Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Mr Willems, who has won the two-thirds majority, has been appointed permanent member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. For the second term (N) For the second mandate (N) Mr. Judo, having obtained a two-thirds majority, was declared an effective member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Mr Judo, who has obtained the two-thirds majority, has been appointed permanent member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organizations. For the third term (F) For the third mandate (F) Mr. Lesciauskas, having obtained a two-thirds majority, is hereby declared an effective member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Mr Lesciauskas, who obtained the two-thirds majority, has been appointed as a permanent member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organizations. For the fourth term (F) For the fourth term of office (F) Having obtained a two-thirds majority, Mr. Robert is declared an effective member of the Information and Advice Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Mr Robert, who has obtained the two-thirds majority, has been appointed a permanent member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organizations. Alternate members Deputy Members M. Hendrik Pinxten a obtenu 70 voix Mr Hendrik Pinxten received 70 votes Mr. Luc Willems obtained 7 votes Mr Luc Willems received 7 votes Mr Olivier Faelens obtained 70 votes Mr Olivier Faelens received 70 votes Mr. Frank Judo obtained 7 votes Mr Frank Judo received 7 votes Ms. Béatrice van de Put obtained 69 votes Mrs Béatrice van de Put received 69 votes Mr. Dany Lesciauskas obtained 8 votes Mr Dany Lesciauskas received 8 votes Mr. Jean-François Husson obtained 61 votes Mr Jean-François Husson received 61 votes Mr. Eric Robert obtained 16 votes Mr Eric Robert received 16 votes For the first term (N) For the first mandate (N) Mr Pinxten, having obtained a two-thirds majority, was declared an alternate member of the Information and Opinion Centre on harmful sectarian organizations. Mr Pinxten, who obtained the two-thirds majority, has been appointed alternate member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organizations. For the second term (N) For the second mandate (N) Having obtained a two-thirds majority, Mr Faelens is hereby declared an alternate member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Mr Faelens, who obtained the two-thirds majority, has been appointed alternate member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. For the third term (F) For the third mandate (F) Mrs van de Put, having obtained a two-thirds majority, is hereby declared an alternate member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Madam van de Put who has obtained the two-thirds majority has been appointed Deputy Member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations. For the fourth term (F) For the fourth term of office (F) Mr. Husson, having obtained a two-thirds majority, was declared an alternate member of the Information and Opinion Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Mr Husson, who has obtained the two-thirds majority, has been appointed alternate member of the Information and Advisory Centre on harmful sectarian organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u205	At the June 25, 2020 plenary session, it appeared that six Dutch-speaking and five French-speaking members had obtained a majority of the votes. The plenary session of 25 June 2020 showed that six Dutch-speaking and five French-speaking candidates obtained a majority of the votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u206	Votes valables: 96
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u207	Absolute majority: 49
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u208	Francophone applicants French-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u209	Academic world
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u210	Judicial world
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u211	Civil society
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u212	Dutch-speaking applicants Dutch-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u213	- M. Kristof Van Assche a obtenu 1 voix
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u214	Judicial world
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u215	Civil society
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u216	Accordingly, the following are elected as effective members of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights: As a result, effective members of the Governing Council of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights are elected: As Francophone members: As French-speaking members: - Olivier De Schutter - Jacques Fierens - Muriel Clavie - Julie Lejeune - Isabelle Dean As Dutch-speaking members: As Dutch-speaking members: - Eva Brems. - Koen Lemmens - Alain Bloch - Evelyne Maes - Willem Debeuckelaere - Guy Cox
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u217	Since four candidates in the ′′academic world′′ category have already obtained a majority of the votes, the vacant term as a French-speaking member must be filled by a candidate who does not belong to this category. Since four candidates from the category ′′academic world′′ have already achieved a majority of the votes, the outstanding mandate of a French-speaking member has to be filled by a candidate who does not belong to this category. Also in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020, I propose that you hold a second ballot for the vacant term of French-speaking members by taking over the remaining candidates of the categories ′′Judicial world′′, ′′civil society′′′ and ′′social partners′′′ on 9 July 2020. According to the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020, I propose that a second ballot be organised for the open mandate of French-speaking Member with the remaining candidates of the categories ′′judicial world′′, ′′civil society′′ and ′′social partners′′ on 9 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u218	In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 3 July 2020 until Thursday 9 July 2020 at 2 p.m. Their ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 1092/1 are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 3 July 2020 until Thursday 9 July 2020 at 14:00. Their ballot and the parliamentary document No. 1092/1 are at the disposal of the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 9 July 2020. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 9 July 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u219	The candidates were heard by the Justice Committee on 30 June 2020. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 1 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u220	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020, I propose that you appoint Mr Tony Vermeulen's Dutch-speaking alternate member during the plenary meeting on 9 July 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 1 July 2020, I propose that the appointment of the Dutch-speaking alternate member of Mr Tony Vermeulen be made at the plenary session of 9 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u221	No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u222	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 June 2020, I propose that you appoint effective members whose candidatures were directly introduced in the House during the sitting on Thursday, 9 July 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 June 2020, I propose that you proceed to the appointment of the permanent members whose applications were submitted directly to the Chamber at the plenary session of 9 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u223	No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u224	In accordance with the request of the Chairman of the DéFI Group, I propose that you allow Mrs Sophie Rohonyi to participate in the work of the special committee responsible for examining the management of the VOCID-19 epidemic by Belgium, as a member without a vote. In accordance with the request made by the chairman of the DéFI Group, I propose that Mrs Sophie Rohonyi participate as a non-voting member in the work of the special committee responsible for examining Belgium's approach to the COOVID-19 epidemic. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u225	The government requested urgency in accordance with section 51 of the Regulations when the proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Code was introduced with respect to exemption from the personal medical care tax, No. 1369/1. The Government has requested the urgency declaration, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Code of Value Added Tax as regards exemption from the tax on medical care, No. 1369/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u226	Is the request for an emergency withdrawn? Good. The government also requested urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when introducing the bill on various urgent tax measures due to the VOCID-19 pandemic (CORONA III), No. 1390/1 The Government has also requested the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various urgent tax provisions resulting from the COOVID-19 pandemic (CORONA III), No. 1390/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u227	Mr President, for the Bill No. 1369/1 on VAT on medical goods has been postponed in committee. There is no longer any question of an urgent motion for a resolution. We do, however, ask for the urgency of the draft law No. 1390/1. In view of the COOVID-19 crisis, the need to act quickly and to reduce the far-reaching impact of this crisis, we are calling for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u228	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u229	The urgency was adopted unanimously. There's a consensus! You can see there's another way. The Government has requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when tabling the draft law amending the Code of Economic Law and other laws with a view to strengthening the research and enforcement powers in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 and in implementation of that Regulation (I), No 1385/1 The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Code of Economic Law and other laws with a view to strengthening the search and enforcement powers in accordance with and in implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation and repealing Regulation (EC) No. 2006/2004 (I), No. 135/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law organizing the appeal procedure against the administrative sanction referred to in Book XV, Title 1/1 of the Code of Economic Law (II), No. 1386/1 was tabled. The Government has also requested an urgent opinion pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law regulating the appeal procedure against the administrative penalty provided for in Book XV, Title 1/1 of the Code of Economic Law (II), No. 1386/1. This document has not been distributed, but it has just been posted on the website. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u230	Mr President, I have not been able to present it to the Conference of Presidents on Wednesday and I apologize, but the government for Minister Muylle is asking for urgency for the 1385 and 1386 texts. There is a justification for both texts. On 12 December 2017, the European Regulation on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation was adopted. This Regulation entered into force on 17 January 2020. The new Regulation lays down the minimum powers for authorities responsible for detecting cross-border infringements of consumer rights, as laid down in the Regulation and the Directives set out in its Annex. It also includes a series of provisions on measures to prosecute such offences. In order to implement the CPC Regulation, national legislation must be aligned with the requirements. Until then, our country does not meet European obligations. The current draft laws aim to provide for this agreement. As the CPC Regulation has already entered into force, it is appropriate to implement the new rules in the short term. Mr President, this is why the urgency is being asked to deal with these draft laws. That, Mr President, is the two urgent reasons for these texts!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u231	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u232	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. The agenda also mentions a supplementary list of proposals for consideration by the Conference of Presidents. The agenda shall also include an additional list of proposals whose consideration has been requested from the Conference of Presidents. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: - the proposal for a law (Mr Christian Leysen and Mrs Kathleen Verhelst) introducing a reconstitution reserve for companies, No 1412/1. I also propose that you consider and send to the committee responsible: - the legislative proposal (Mr Christian Leysen and Mrs Kathleen Verhelst) introducing a reconstruction reserve for companies, No. 1412/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u233	Mrs Van Bossuyt, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1393/1 amending the Civil Code extending the procedure for the recovery of undisputed monetary debts in respect of sovereign debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u234	Mr President, it will of course not have escaped anyone's notice that many companies are more than ever faced with payment difficulties because of the corona crisis. The government could assist them by paying invoices more punctually. The legislative proposal before us which calls for urgency must encourage the government to do so. It also implements a European Payment Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u235	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u236	Mr Van Quickenborne, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1398/1 amending the Law of 21 June 1985 on the technical requirements to be met by each land-based vehicle, its parts and safety accessories and amending the Royal Decree of 23 December 1994 laying down the conditions of approval and the rules governing the administrative control of the institutions responsible for the control of vehicles put into service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u237	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the speedy completion of this legislative proposal has been indicated, so that the parliaments of the Länder, which we respect, will be able to adapt their legislation this year in the light of the 2021 budget. That is why we are calling for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u238	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u239	Mr Verherstraeten, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1400/1 by Mr Demon and Mr Briers to regulate the processing of operational police information by the administrative and logistical framework of the integrated police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u240	Mr President, this is a legal separation, which brings considerable added value to police forces. The role and tasks of the administrative and logistical framework of the police, the CALog, have evolved greatly over the years, from a purely administrative to full support of the operational framework. Certain key functions for the processing of operational police information are filled by CALog personnel. The aim of the proposal is to create a legal framework that will clarify the role of supporting the administrative and logistical framework of the integrated police. The urgency is requested, taking into account the recent opinion of the Supervisory Body on police information on the subject with a view to providing legal certainty in support of the administrative and logistical framework in such an important sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u241	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u242	Mr Gilkinet, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1403/1 amending the periods which occurred during prenatal rest and which can be taken into account for the extension of postnatal rest for civil servants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u243	Mr President, this is a restorative or "additional" law. You know that Parliament recently adopted excellent legislation to protect mothers' post-natal leave. Apparently, the rule we have adopted does not apply to public service workers. It is therefore a matter of supplementing the law to target these public service workers, in line with the excellent text that we recently voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u244	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u245	Mr Verherstraeten, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1404/1 amending the Law of 4 May 2020 regulating the suspension of the social elections procedure of the year 2020 pursuant to the Coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic to extend the deadline for concluding an agreement to vote electronically in the social elections 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u246	Mr President, this is about electronic voting in social elections. This has to be taped 90 days before the elections. That deadline is already over because the law of 4 May 2020 has suspended the electoral procedure, only 36 days later. There are companies that still want to organise this in an electronic way. That can certainly be justified from a health point of view. The suspension of proceedings for undertakings ends on 23 September. That is too soon after the recess to get that voted in time. Hence the question of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u247	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u248	Mr Cogolati, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1405/1 amending the Royal Decree of 19 December 2014 on air rules and operational provisions relating to air navigation services and procedures, in order to prohibit the overflight of the Doel and Tihange nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u249	Mr President, I am the representative of Mr Cogolati. This is an important public safety issue. The Minister of the Interior has recently answered a parliamentary question from my colleague, Mr Cogolati. After analysing the minister's response, we find that the strength of our nuclear power plants and their resistance to percussion by an airline plane is not guaranteed. This bill proposes to define a no-fly zone, as is the case in other countries, in France in particular, and as is the case for the Laeken and Ciergnon castles, in order to further protect our citizens from a possible nuclear accident. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u250	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u251	Mr Van Quickenborne, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1412/1 establishing a company reconstruction reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u252	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the Minister for Finance is among us. He also witnessed what I will tell you: in the Finance Committee this part, the reconstruction reserve, was originally referred to in the bill as 'corona III'. It has been highlighted by consensus in the committee and is now presented as a separate legislative proposal. The urgency is called for because of a corona-related interest, in particular a solvency measure for our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u253	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u254	Vote on Amendment No 31 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert a recital Q(n).(1211/7) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert recital Q (n).(1211/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u255	Vote on Amendment No 37 by Els Van Hoof at the request 4.(1211/7) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Els Van Hoof on request 4.(1211/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[109]] Yes No. [[35]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Sofie Merckx at request 4.(1211/7) Vote on Amendment No 35 from Sofie Merckx on request 4.(1211/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 77 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert a request 17(n).(1211/7) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert a request 17(n).(1211/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Sofie Merckx to insert a request 17(n).(1211/7) Vote on Amendment No 36 from Sofie Merckx to insert a request 17(n).(1211/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 53 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert a request 18(n).(1211/7) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert an application 18(n).(1211/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[18]] Yes No. 128 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert a request 19(n).(1211/7) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to insert a request 19(n).(1211/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (Vote/vote 8) Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u256	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 124 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 146 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, as amended. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u257	Mr President, my colleague, Mr Yoleen Van Camp, has in his amendment No. 33 and No. 34 votes against.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u258	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u259	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 148 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u260	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 136 Yes No. 9 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u261	Mr President, Mr Lachaert and Mr Delvaux made a mistake in voting No. 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u262	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u263	Vote on amendment No 37 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a recital Z/1(n).(967/8) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a recital Z/1(n).(967/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u264	Vote on amendment No 38 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a recital Z/2(n).(967/8) Vote on Amendment No 38 of Steven Creyelman cs inserting a recital Z/2(n).(967/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 39 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a recital Z/3(n).(967/8) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a recital Z/3(n).(967/ 8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (Voting/vote 13) Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 40 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a request 20(n).(967/8) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Steven Creyelman cs inserting a request 20(n).(967/ 8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (Voting/vote 13) Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 41 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a request 21(n).(967/8) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Steven Creyelman cs inserting a request 21(n).(967/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[16]] Yes No. 128 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 42 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a request 22(n).(967/8) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a request 22(n).(967/ 8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u265	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u266	Mr President, I am sorry to ask for a little more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u267	No, no problem. We're here for the assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u268	Okay, I'll remember that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of last year our group tabled a motion for a resolution on the alarming situation of Eastern Christians in south-east Turkey. When that proposal was introduced in committee, we were pleasantly surprised by the statement by the esteemed colleague De Roover that the N-VA had a similar proposal in its pipeline. The surprise was pleasant, because we feared that the fate of the Eastern Christians would not interest anyone in the hemisphere, on the one hand because they are Christians and on the other because they live in a Muslim country. In short, the victims do not belong to the hug group, the perpetrators do. With the amendments that have just been put to the vote, we were hoping to focus a little more on the Eastern Christians and their situation in the south-east of Turkey. Too bad, but I'm afraid that didn't work out. Probably I will not surprise you when I tell you that we will still be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u269	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 144 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u270	Vote on amendment No 8 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a recital M(n).(972/6) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert recital M (n).(972/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 9 by Steven Creyelman cs to insert a request 6(n).(972/6) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Steven Creyelman cs inserting a request 6(n).(972/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (Vote/vote 16) Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u271	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 127 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 145 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Nabil Boukili voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u272	Vote on Amendment No 19 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 1/1(n).(1105/9) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 1/1(n).(1105/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 69 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u273	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 146 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-02-55-plenair-ip049x.u274	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, July 9, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 July 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
