ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, the latest figures from the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless (CGVS) show that the number of asylum applications is increasing. In itself, that's not really something special. The number of asylum applications always varies. What is striking, however, is that the number of requests from Brazilians is rising sharply. This is special because Brazil, as far as I know, is not included in the list of the main countries of origin of asylum applicants. This trend must, of course, be followed up closely. Since Brazil is not at war and it is also a democracy, I do not think it is likely that Brazilians will be widely recognised as refugees here. In the meantime, their applications need to be examined. This puts extra pressure on our asylum services. They have the right to material shelter, which could put pressure on our reception network. Hence my questions. Is it true that there is an increase in the number of requests for asylum from Brazilians? What's the cause of this? Do they have a chance of being recognised as a refugee or otherwise protected? What is the impact of this increase on our asylum authorities and on the reception network? Do they call for material aid? What actions will you take, or have you already taken, in response to the increase in the number of requests for asylum from Brazilians?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u2	Thank you for your question, Mr Briers. It is an interesting question because it is an interesting case in itself that indicates that when we act quickly and very quickly take into account what is happening on the ground, and more specifically on the Klein Kastiltskin, we can react quickly and also make efficiency gains in the right way very quickly. Since July 2020, there has been a significant increase in the number of applications for international protection from Brazil. From July to 14 October there were a total of 208 requests. In other words, in three and a half months there have been as many requests from Brazil as in the last 10 years together. Often these are people who have been staying in Belgium for some time. Those Brazilian applicants for international protection generally do not apply for shelter at Fedasil, but are already staying at a private address. The asylum services also tell us that these visitors often do not know that they are in an asylum procedure, nor do they mention any evidence of a well-founded fear of persecution on their return to Brazil. We were also confirmed that in the Brazilian community there is the idea that the online registration form used by the Foreign Office would lead to regularisation. So there was fake news within the Brazilian community. The CGVS shall assess the applications independently. For the decisions of 2020, the level of protection was 0 %. This means that no Brazilian who registered with the Klein Kastiltje has received protection, just because many of them were not even looking for international protection. It is precisely because we are constantly monitoring these statistics that we have been able to intervene and that we have been able to do the right thing, namely to engage in discussions with the Brazilian community. There has even been a Facebook Life action from the Foreign Office, which has reached more than 100 people in the community. I am very proud to note that in recent days there has been no request from Brazilians to the Little Castle. So that fake news has been deactivated because we acted very quickly on the basis of signals we had received from the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u3	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, fake news leads to uncertainty, but your answer was clear. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, I will be brief because I had already mentioned this issue in part, speaking of the second line of strength of your presentation. But there are two specific questions that I did not ask at that time, which were part of the four questions in this oral question. The first concerns precisely the European Border and Coast Guard contingent, the deployment of which is repeatedly announced to us. I wanted to know what was going on about it. Reference was made to the date of 1 January 2021, but I wanted more details on staffing and equipment. The last of those four questions I didn't ask you was in the news. This is the time for the completion of the new pact, bearing in mind that Commissioner Johansson has already declared that she does not expect an agreement before the first half of next year, and bearing in mind that the President of the Commission once again stated last Thursday that, as far as the negotiations are concerned, we must show unity on the issue, discuss and find compromises. This, of course, suggests that the situation in the negotiations is still blocked. I have the document in front of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u5	Mr Pivin, there are several categories of staff within the European Border and Coast Guard Agency. Category 1 is engaged directly by Frontex as a permanent staff. Categories 2 and 3 are staff seconded from Member States in the long and short term. Belgium has prepared itself as planned and the selected staff are ready to carry out their tasks as early as January. The selection of Category 1 personnel is hampered by the VOCID-19 pandemic, as is recruitment. The budget reduction provided for in the multiannual financial framework package will have a significant impact on the implementation of permanent bodies as well as on the acquisition of own resources. To this end, the Agency will continue to negotiate. I expect more information at the meeting of the Agency's Management Board, which will take place at the end of this month. The deadline for finalizing the work initiated by the Commission is a complicated matter. I'll try to answer that, but it's not obvious. If you ask me the question of my personal ambition, it would be to have a political agreement at the end of December. That was the Commission's ambition. We realize that this is complicated because some countries have a completely different vision, which complicates the political agreement. It's been a long time since we've been working hard on it. Yesterday, I had a negotiation with my Greek colleague and I will still have discussions with colleagues from other European countries to try to reach an agreement. Will it be a firm political agreement or not? We will see where this will succeed, with the aim of laying a first stone by the end of the year, in order to move the matter forward. In an ideal world, we should have a new European Pact on Asylum and Migration before the end of the legislature. Every day counts. It is important that we have a migration policy that is influenced by the European level as soon as possible. Getting a European response would enable Belgium to best meet the expectations and expectations of its citizens. I'm not Mrs. Sun, but I understand your question. It has to move forward. It must move and I can assure you that I am trying to push at European level. I received text messages from the European Commissioner and my European colleagues at the last Council which told me that I was fairly cashy and clear in my answers. I will continue to do so because, personally, I am convinced that if we fail to have a response to these migration problems at European level, it is really Europe and European values that are at stake. You can count on me to do what is necessary at European level and to use all the diplomatic means that we have always had before. It's an asset of Belgium. We are a small country but we have diplomatic assets that must be used to the fullest in order to convince all these countries to move forward, even if we have a different vision at the bottom. Finally, the formula that we are trying to adopt at the moment precisely to move forward, knowing that each country starts from its ideological position, is to use the 2019 figures on refugees to make a simulation in order to know, on the basis of the ideas developed for a new European migration policy, the impact on the figures of each European country. Having a numerical result will help us to dismantle the problem, to depolarize a debate which, today, is far too ideological and which will never have a solution if we do not rationalise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, this is indeed a good way to demystify and, certainly, objectiveise the situation. At the outset, I said that the credibility of the European Union and, consequently, of Belgium in implementing a proactive policy in this area was at stake. I understand that this is the tone you are using. On the other hand, I fully understand that you cannot elaborate on this second aspect of my question more than you have done for the first to which you have provided a complete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, it will be a regular rendezvous in this committee. I heard you very well just now when you said that it was up to the representatives of the people to often ask the same questions, in order to put a little pressure on policy. I'll take care of that right away. That is why I ask you this question, a few weeks after my previous question, with regard to the interpretation of the well-known site in Bilzen in the municipality of Grote-Spouwen with a temporary asylum centre. You may know that there are uncertainties and questions about this at different levels of policy. During my last parliamentary question, I heard you say that the opening of an asylum centre in Bilzen remains a real piste and that there are still discussions between the Red Cross and the owner about the opening of a reception centre. You also said that the result would be known in the coming weeks. I am also locally active as group leader in the city council, where Mr Raskin is also active. In the meantime, the city administration of Bilzen rejected this. I take it it wasn't fake news. What you have said here is fundamentally denied and even refuted. According to the local government, the owner would no longer have any contact with the Red Cross or with your services. A different interpretation of the building would be decided shortly. For my questions, please refer to the written presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you for as concrete an answer as possible. When presenting your policy paper, I happened to be in the Chamber earlier. I saw images of a burning site in Bilzen in the video prior to your performance. I find it outrageous that at a time when there is no evidence of the perpetrators nor of the motives, you use the Bilzen fire for your own political promo. I don't want to start any controversy about it right now, but I had to get this off my chest. On 23 October, at the last committee meeting that we spoke on the subject of the question, you announced that Fedasil was also bourgeois in this case. So Fedasil can also request access to the file and after the investigation Fedasil will automatically have access to the file. Fedasil also has every interest in that inspection. The file could show that there is still a threat and that additional measures would be appropriate. So that bourgeois stand isn't unimportant. You said in October that, despite the events, the opening of the asylum centre in Bilzen remains a real option. There would still be conversations between the Red Cross Flanders and the owner. The conversations between the owner and the Red Cross about the opening would still run. Was that the same on November 10th? If not, when will these calls be closed? Can you tell me about the result? If so, are the conversations still going on today? Has Fedasil effectively filed a request for access to the criminal record? If yes, was the question accepted? If the application was refused, on what grounds was the refusal based? If that is not the case, is Fedasil planning to request access now, more than a year after the facts? Yes or no? Why wouldn't people do that? Finally, Mr Secretary of State, will you urge Fedasil to submit a request for inspection? Are you willing to do that? In other words, do you recognise the potential importance of such an inspection?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return to my policy statement and the video that goes with it. For the sake of clarity, this is part of the reception and policy we want to pursue in this area. I'm not talking about the fire. I'm not making insinuations. However, after I found in that very painful dossier that far too little information has been shared, also at the local level and that it is an example of the jojo policy of the past few years, that policy was to open an asylum centre, then close it, then reopen it and then close it again, and a local government was suddenly informed of the presence, which it had to do with, that we should get rid of that kind of policy. We need to work much better with local authorities. I have added, among other things, that we will do a survey in every municipality and city involved in a shelter, just to hear what we do bad, what we do good, what we can do better and what we can learn from them. The fire is more than the fire on that house. For one piece it is also about a reception policy that has been on fire in recent years, figuratively. In this respect, we need to pursue a much better policy in order to avoid tensions which should not be created. De Vlaming, de Waal, the Belgian tout court, has proven its willingness to show solidarity if it is involved in time and if a structural approach to policy is pursued. For the record, that was the symbolism behind it. Then I come to the specific questions. The contacts between the Red Cross and the city administration of Bilzen date from early December 2019. After the fire, there was still an information meeting for all neighborhood residents, an info market on 7 and 8 December, answering all the questions asked at the info meeting on the city's website. The contacts between the owners of the property and the Red Cross continued. During the period from November to January this was mainly about the impact of the fire at all levels. This was in the first quarter of 2020 on the issue of asbestos removal. During the period from June to November there were some contacts to find out about the state of the works. After all, the Red Cross cannot take any further steps until there is another roof on the building. As regards the timing of the entry into service of the building as a temporary asylum centre, there is currently no concrete date in sight. Fedasil did not request access to the file. It is not customary for the bourgeois party to have access to the file before the investigation is completed. The file will be consulted as soon as the investigation has been concluded by the investigating judge. Moreover, additional research actions can be requested if necessary, so we must also wait for them. I have effectively said that there may be an asylum centre at that location. So I'm gonna leave that information open. I don't see why I won't leave that possibility open until the file is closed. Mrs Ponthier has already indicated that I can expect regular questions from Parliament. Now, Mrs Ponthier and Mr Raskin, put these questions at ease, because it is an important dossier and I understand that you are following it very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u10	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your answers, although you have not answered the question of timing, but I suspect that this has to do with the fact that the works on the site are still completely stationary at the moment, which means that you do not want or cannot give precise timing. As you say, it will be followed. With all sympathy, your explanation of the symbolism regarding the display of the burning asylum centre, I honestly find it rather weak. You knew very well what you were doing when you showed it, and you have again strengthened the bias of your policy and of the previous policy. I really regret that. Until further notice, I still believe in your good intentions in the field of policy, but I found that display very painful to see, like all other colleagues, I suspect, and that is no credit to you at all. That's what I wanted to give you. Make sure that the new policy, which you stand for, is broken in this respect as well. That is a council or advice, by which you do whatever you like. Once again, I would like to emphasise the clarity and transparency of the choices you and your services make regarding the installation of a site for an upcoming asylum centre, which I hope you will translate into real policy actions. This clarity and transparency is certainly necessary for local authorities and local residents. That is not the case at the moment. We hear a story here and a different story at local policy level. So I'd like to ask you to stop doing that. Make sure you communicate clearly and clearly to all policy areas; that was exactly the biggest pain in the file and just that caused a great deal of concern and uncertainty; I do not need to remind you of that. You say you do not know why that slope should be abandoned, but I can give you a good reason: there was a site from the beginning and there is certainly no support for an asylum centre right now. If that's no reason for your services to revisit that location, I don't remember. That is the essence of your policy. You are always talking with your party about taking responsibility, in Belgium and in the European Union, but you must also take responsibility in this area. If there is no support for this site, it must ring a bell and require you to make a different decision and, if necessary, another location, but we will talk about this later. As far as we are concerned, it must be clear once and for all: there is no support for an asylum centre of any kind or duration on that site. Once again, I urge you to remove that from your policy plans. If necessary, look at another location, but don't do it at that place in Bilzen, where a lot of criticism has come from the beginning. We will continue to question you about this and continue to evaluate and monitor the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say a few things briefly in my reply. For the sake of verification, I understand that in the period June to November there were still contacts between the owner and the Red Cross about the status of the works. Secondly, you retain the site as a real location for an asylum centre. I told you last time that ambiguity is murderous. That's poison in the file, that's poison in local society. Unclearness that lasts for so long is not an act of good governance, Mr Secretary of State. So come to the conclusion: the mayor of Bilzen, of your party, too, has said at the youngest city council that they do not really want that asylum centre there. That file is poisoned. Stop it. As far as my suggestion to ask Fedasil to access the criminal record is concerned, you say that's not customary. I'm sure it is. However, this is a symbol file, which even ends up in your promotional film. You say the intention was right, and I want to believe it, but it does indicate what kind of symbol file it is. You say that access to questions is not customary and that you will not do so, but I think that is a weakness. You're standing for something. I say that with great respect and sympathy for your person. You communicate well and have a story to tell. We may not always agree on everything, but you do stand for something. But then you come to tell me that in a symbol file like the Spouwen fire it is not customary to ask for inspection and you do not do so. That disappoints me. Do it, please, think about it again and then draw a line under the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u12	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, let me begin by congratulating you on your new duties. I would like to ask you about the legal protection of whistleblowers. Secretary of State, on April 11, 2019, journalist Julian Assange was arrested by British police at the Embassy of Ecuador where he had found asylum seven years ago. For the past ten years, the United States has been persecuting this journalist because, through the WikiLeaks platform, of which he is the founder, he has distributed more than 700,000 classified documents on American military and diplomatic activities in 2010. These documents demonstrate, in particular, that the United States has committed war crimes and human rights abuses in Afghanistan and Iraq. While those responsible for these crimes have never been disturbed, Julian Assange is, for his part, prosecuted by the United States for espionage. He faces 175 years in prison. Today, he is imprisoned in terrible conditions in a high-security London prison, Belmarsh Prison, pending the possible extradition requested by the United States. According to articles recently published in the press, 60 doctors believe that the journalist could die in his British cell, as they consider his physical and mental health to be of concern. A United Nations expert on torture indicated that Julian Assange presented signs of psychological torture during his last public appearance. The situation of the journalist is becoming more and more urgent as British judge Vanessa Baraitser said she would hand over her decision on January 4. After that, it will be up to the British Government to confirm or not to confirm this decision. The final decision on the extradition of Julian Assange will come from the executive branch. However, the conditions under which the hearings took place raised concerns that the outcome would be unfair, as the decision had been taken in advance by the British and US courts. Nils Muiznieks, director of Amnesty International Europe, said: "This hearing is the latest in a vast offensive against the right to freedom of expression. If Julian Assange is extradited, this will have serious consequences in terms of human rights, setting a dangerous precedent for the protection of those who publish information classified as secret in the public interest." Julian Assange is innocent and, through his work as a journalist, with courage, rigor and tenacity, he put the truth and information of the people ahead of the risks it could pose. There is good reason to believe that he is only being prosecuted for his political ideas and activism. Indeed, the request for extradition from the United States is based on accusations that stem directly from the publication of classified documents in the context of Julian Assange's work as a journalist with WikiLeaks. Publishing such information is the cornerstone of freedom of the media and the right of the public to have access to information of public interest. This freedom must be protected and not criminalized. Alert launchers that disclose business information deserve more protection. Journalists behind revelations such as Panama Papers and LuxLeaks are doing an important job for our society. It is up to the democratic institutions of our country to guarantee their freedom and legal protection. Freedom of the press and journalism play a fundamental role in any democratic society. Yet this freedom is threatened and put under pressure. In December 2018, the International Federation of Journalists reported that 84 journalists and ten of their collaborators had been intentionally murdered in the same year. On 10 December 2019, the same effigy provisionally reported 49 murdered journalists for 2019. In November 2019, Palestinian journalist Muath Amarneh lost an eye after a confrontation with Israeli security services. We are all aware of the recent case of Saudi journalist Jamal Ahmad Khashoggi, who entered the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul and was never seen again. The two regimes most likely responsible for these cases are our country's military, economic and political allies. It is not only in developing countries that freedom of the press is threatened. Both Malta and Ireland, Bulgaria and Slovakia have recently deplored the deaths of critical journalists. Italy also has about 20 journalists in need of protection after being threatened. It is important to stress that our country has a duty under the Geneva Convention to grant political asylum to human rights defenders who are at risk of being sentenced for their political commitment, especially when the activist in question may be extradited to countries where the death penalty is still being applied, such as the United States. In addition, Article 3 of the European Convention on Extradition expressly prohibits the extradition of political prisoners. Belgium is also a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, two international conventions that condemn torture. The government statement of Vivaldi states that: "The status of whistleblower will be endorsed". Point 2.7 of the Minister of Justice's policy statement states: "We are also investing at European and global level in the promotion of the rule of law, the fight against torture, the strengthening of human rights", all of which require Belgium to position itself as a hospital country offering asylum and residence to foreign whistleblowers and their families, in particular through the granting of humanitarian visas. Nils Melzer, UN Special Rapporteur on Torture, said: "When for the first time, telling the truth becomes a crime, while the powerful enjoy impunity, it will then be too late to correct the shooting. Our voice will have capitulated in the face of censorship and our destiny in the face of boundless tyranny." Julian Assange's case, and the safeguard of his life, is an opportunity for our country to draw a red line on this theme and to reposition itself as a pioneer in human rights, and to send a clear signal to all those who intend, through their intimidation and violence, to destroy the essential acquis of freedom of the press. So, Secretary of State, are you going to offer Julian Assange legal protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u13	Mr Boukili, thank you for your congratulations and for the messages of encouragement to this complicated department, as you know as well as I do. To date, I have not received any questions from Mr Assange or his defence with a view to obtaining legal protection. So far, this is a purely hypothetical discussion because there is no visa application. If he is on our territory, he can still apply for asylum. In order to be recognized as a refugee, the person concerned must submit his or her application for asylum to the Office des Étrangers. This application must be made in Belgium, and the Office of Foreigners conducts the admissibility examination in the event of a new application. If the application for asylum is admissible, the file is submitted to the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA), which carries out the examination on the merits. As you may know, the CGRA conducts this review independently. So I don't have the power to grant asylum or not. Each application, regardless of its origin, will be treated objectively. The same will therefore apply to the hypothetical request of Mr Assange.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, I fully understand your answer, since there is a procedure that everyone is obliged to follow. In this case, this is a specific case, an attack on freedom of expression and on the work of investigative journalist and investigator. What we are asking for here is a political stance. I think that, given Mr Assange's state of health, it is very difficult for him to carry out all these steps. The purpose of my inquiry is to take a political position, as a government that defends freedom of expression and human rights. By granting Mr. Assange the right to asylum, you are giving a strong signal at the international level. We do not accept that whistleblowers who inform the population, who risk their lives, their families, their situation and their social stability, can be punished because they have played an information role for the public. This social role is indispensable in a democracy. That is why I ask you, Secretary of State, to take a political position, in order to encourage this kind of behaviour necessary in a democracy such as ours. Similarly, the sanctions imposed on Mr Assange are a danger and a negative signal sent to all journalists, investigators and whistleblowers, who will be forced to self-censor themselves in order not to endanger their lives and their families. I think there is a political position here, and that is why I intend to table a motion for a recommendation calling on the government to grant political asylum to Mr Assange.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u15	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr. Nabil Boukili and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, in charge of the National Lottery, Deputy to the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - Whereas the outcome of the recent proceedings before the British courts to decide on the extradition of Julian Assange to the United States will not be known until 4 January 2021; - Considering that Julian Assange is currently being held in the high-security prison in Belmarsh pending the verdict; - Considering that his conditions of detention have been denounced in the press by 60 doctors, considering that Julian Assange could die in his cell because of his physical and mental health; - Considering that a United Nations expert on torture indicated that Julian Assange presented all the typical symptoms of prolonged exposure to psychological torture; - Whereas the procedure itself has raised many questions as to its impartiality; - Considering that this trial was described by Amnesty International as a "simulacre of justice"; - Whereas there is also cause for concern about Julian Assange's future conditions of detention in the United States, should he be extradited to the United States; - Whereas, through his journalistic work, denouncing in particular the war crimes committed by the United States in Afghanistan as well as American interference and espionage in other countries of the world, Julian Assange has served democracy and the interests of "small" countries such as Belgium; - Whereas the rights and physical integrity of journalists are increasingly being attacked, particularly in Europe; - Whereas a strong gesture is necessary, not only to safeguard Julian Assange's life, but also to send a clear signal to all those who, through their intimidation and violence, intend to destroy the essential acquis of freedom of the press; - Considering that this is an opportunity for our country to draw a red line on this topic and to reposition itself as a pioneer in the field of human rights; asks the government to grant political asylum to Julian Assange." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Nabil Boukili and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard Mr Nabil Boukili's speech and the reply of the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, in charge of the National Lottery, attached to the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - whereas the outcome of the recent trial before the British court to decide on the extradition of Julian Assange to the United States will not be known before 4 January 2021; - whereas Julian Assange is currently being held in the highly secure Belmarsh prison pending the sentence; - whereas his detention conditions in the press were denounced by 60 doctors who considered that Julian Assange's physical and mental health had deteriorated so much that he could die in his cell; - whereas a UN expert on torture has stated that Julian Assange showed all typical symptoms of prolonged exposure to psychological torture; - whereas many questions have arisen as to the impartiality of the process itself; - whereas this process was described by Amnesty International as a "form of bogus justice"; - whereas the future detention conditions of Julian Assange in the United States, if extradited to that country, also give rise to concern; - whereas Julian Assange denounced, in particular, war crimes committed by the United States in Afghanistan and American interference and espionage in other countries, democracy and the interests of the "small" countries such as Belgium; - whereas the rights and physical integrity of journalists are increasingly threatened, particularly in Europe; - whereas a strong gesture must be made not only to safeguard Julian Assange's life, but also to send a clear signal to all those who, through their intimidation and violence, want to destroy the essential acquis of freedom of the press; - whereas this matter gives our country the opportunity to draw a red line in this area and to re-establish itself as a pioneer in the field of human rights; asks the government Julian Assange political asylum." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Mrs Van Camp, several of your questions have already been asked and answered in the context of the budget debate. What further questions do you need to clarify?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u16	The Secretary of State has answered almost all the questions punctually. They may therefore be referred to as "answered'. My question No. 55010895C may be converted into a written question. Only on questions. 55010791C and 55011089C, which deal with the same subject, I have not yet received an answer, unless mistakenly so. Those are the only ones that have been marked as unanswered with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u17	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I can be very brief. The question has been asked several times and the Secretary of State has already indicated that he would come to it when my question would be addressed in committee. She's on today's show, too. We simply want to know the following in the case of the Salvadorans who have voluntarily returned. How high was the return premium they each received? I'd like to get the total amount and the amount per person. You noted that they had not been given an entry ban, but would not be back in Belgium. The government ensures that the REAB programme can no longer be claimed within a period of five years. We had previously requested this information from your predecessor in a similar discussion on this subject. Your predecessor replied that we could not obtain them, because there is no form of registration in this respect. So I would like to confront you with that contradiction. Did you make a mistake or did Mrs. De Block make a mistake?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, you seem to be the last'survivor' of the committee. I am very pleased that you remain active. I mean that sincerely. That's good. I now come to the answer to the question you have raised, which concerns both premiums and voluntary return. You say that the results of the voluntary return are poor. However, that depends on how you look at the results. During the previous legislature, the figures of voluntary return and forced return were very similar if we do not count the drift-backs. As I have already mentioned a number of times, the highest figures for voluntary return were achieved in 2012 and 2013. I am also convinced that we can raise the figures if we invest sufficiently in voluntary return. Apart from the profile of the people who come here, who always play a role, we are all convinced that a little extra can and must be done in the area of voluntary return, in order to make the most of this instrument. That is exactly what the current government wants to do. The coalition agreement is very clear. We propose strong guidance at all stages of the procedure, from the moment someone applies for asylum when someone is told that they are not receiving asylum to all the steps that will be taken afterwards, in order to maximise and exercise voluntary return as effectively as possible. The orientation of migrants on our territory is also strengthened in order to provide transparent and complete information on the possibilities of asylum, residence and return. To this end, the federal government will finance pilot projects aimed at helping people without legal residence in the first line of humanitarian care more quickly and effectively towards existing residence procedures or return in cooperation with Fedasil, the Foreign Affairs Service, large cities, social services and NGOs. The return to visa-free countries shall not be subject to a REAB premium, except in the case of individual exceptions. It seems to me that it is important to maintain these exceptions and thus to avoid reinstating them in situations of abuse, as you have described them. The return premium shall be awarded according to the applicable criteria, depending on the status of the returnee and taking into account any vulnerabilities. Abuse will, of course, be countered. For example, there is a record of who receives a REAB grant and returnees who would return to Belgium can not call on the voluntary return programme again for up to 5 years after their departure. We must, of course, combat abuse, which is my policy statement's main thrust. To this end, Fedasil, in collaboration with the International Organisation for Migration, has created a database with all persons returning. The REAB premium is also obtained only if the return has been effective. With this we limit the risk of abuse as much as possible. As long as we offer voluntary return, of course, we can never completely rule that out, as you know. The most important thing, however, is proper monitoring of voluntary return, as there are often clear developments, for example, a certain nationality whose representation increases significantly in return rates. These are the phenomena we want to investigate, to know the motivation and background of these people. In this way, we can always react appropriately when we establish abuse. As far as the figures are concerned, the individual case is always considered. The basic level of assistance for voluntary return costs is around €700 for adults and €350 for children. In addition, material aid can be added. Especially for persons meeting the vulnerability criteria, additional reintegration support is possible. However, this is evaluated on an individual basis and this is not a fixed amount per person. I agree with you that abuse must be avoided, and we both believe that return rates should be better than they have been in recent years. In particular, the figures for voluntary return were not spectacularly good and should therefore be invested in them. We will do so in the years to come, and we will limit abuse by monitoring as much as possible. Anyone who has received return support and has returned effectively will certainly not be able to make use of reintegration aid in the first 5 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-25-55-commissie-ic306x.u19	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. This action, which you announced, has therefore received more than EUR 50,000 in return support. I recall from your reply that your predecessor did indeed say that there was no mechanism in the past to check whether someone who came forward here had already received a REAB premium, but that a database has now been set up for that purpose. So if those people were to fly back in tomorrow, as they come from a visa-free country, they would indeed be marked as returning. If we were to ask you in the coming years whether there were any of those about 80 Salvadorans that you voluntarily returned with some EUR 56 000 return support, then we will no longer have the answer from your predecessor, since we do not know because we do not register it, but you will be able to submit the figures from that database and say that those people have not returned effectively. We will continue to follow up on this.
