ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u1	Colleagues, as you will have learned by e-mail, our meeting this afternoon is cancelled because of the unavailability of Minister Clarinval, who is still busy with the negotiations. So with regard to the scientific policy questions and Mr Clarinval's other competences, we have two options: either the minister can answer them informally or the members can turn them into written questions, so that a trace of them will remain in the Written Questions Bulletin. Still, it will have to be decided today and so let the secretariat know. After this meeting, the Secretary will send an e-mail to the persons concerned so that they can choose between these two possibilities. Minister, thank you for being available for this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u2	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of March Jean-Paul Van Avermaet succeeded Koen Van Gerven as CEO of Bpost. Van Avermaet was previously active in the security sector, where he was in charge of Group 4. Barely in office, the new CEO of bpost came into play after the BMA opened an investigation into possible price agreements between different security companies. Meanwhile, Van Avermaet is also the subject of an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice, and according to some media sources, the Brussels Office would also investigate this case. Given the great strategic importance of Radial, the e-commerce company of bpost in the United States, this raises many questions about the functioning of Mr Van Avermaet as CEO of bpost. I come to my questions, Minister. To what extent have you been informed, as the competent minister, about the ongoing investigations? To what extent is the Management Board aware? What contractual possibilities would there be if the CEO of Bpost were convicted of making price agreements in his previous position in the security sector? Do you guarantee, as the competent minister, that the American investigation into Bpost's CEO will have no influence whatsoever on Radial's operation and results? I also have a few questions about Mr de Romrée. It will be replaced by a new top manager on 1 December. For what reason did bpost not communicate about the departure of Mr de Romrée, who had already resigned ten days ago? To what extent have you been informed as a competent minister about this dismissal? How will bpost cope with the loss of four top managers already?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u3	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the current CEO of bpost, Mr. Van Avermaet, has been subject for several months to an investigation by the Belgian Competition Authority (ABC), due to a suspicion of unlawful price cartel on the market of its previous active employer in everything that was guarding and private security. It was the company G4S. It appears that American justice has also manifested itself. It investigates the same facts in connection with the private guarding markets around the SHAPE or their embassy in Brussels, markets for which there would have been cartels. So the anti-cartel department of the U.S. Department of Justice is also investigating. This has unfortunate consequences for the potential functioning of Mr. Van Avermaet as CEO of bpost, since he could be arrested for interrogation if he were to travel to American soil where we know that bpost has its largest subsidiary, the Radial company. You were questioned on this subject last Thursday in plenary by several Members. On that occasion, you spoke of a written document sent by Mr. Van Avermaet to the bpost board of directors, in which he recalled his innocence, which is obviously his right. He also ensured that he would be transparent about possible new developments in judicial proceedings. He still assured that he could travel around the world in the course of his duties, including in the United States. Do you confirm that? What is of great concern to the Ecolo-Groen Group is that Mr. Van Avermaet can exercise his role as CEO of bpost in all its potential. We know the challenges bpost faces. The business model is changing with parcels, home delivery, quality of employment. Huge challenges await him. For us, Mr. Van Avermaet must be able to be fully mobilized on his task. Such very heavy judicial investigations could prevent it from doing so. This is a real concern for us. Do you confirm that this letter he wrote to the board of directors will enable him to meet these conditions? Is a plan B in consideration for you, minister, or for the bpost board of directors? In other words, is there any reflection on the search for a successor potential to Mr. Van Avermaet if he had to at some point, with the evolution of the judicial procedure, take a step aside? Finally, last Thursday, in plenary, you also talked about a new charter that the bpost board of directors would put in place in relation to a policy around the ethics and behaviour of the top management in general and therefore the CEO. Can you already give us some new elements in relation to the current situation? What additional elements will this charter include?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u4	Minister, there is a large-scale investigation into abuse in the security companies sector. As G4S' top man, the current Bpost CEO might be involved in price fixings that would have been made with industry associates. It is, however, premature to make judgements on this. The Belgian Competition Authority and the US Department of Justice would have started an investigation into abuses in the security sector. The file would be about illegal market practices by key players, G4S, Securitas and SERIS. Bpost has, of course, important activities with Radial in the United States. Radial's top man leaves in bpost, so we know. This was discussed in plenary last week. Then you indicated that the board expects the CEO to comply strictly with his obligation of transparency. The CEO is therefore invited to inform the Management Board immediately in writing of any further developments in the file. It is premature to condemn Mr Van Avermaet. For this, the ongoing investigations must be respected. The question is of course to what extent the serenity within bpost and the functioning of the CEO can be guaranteed today. Has the CEO always informed the Management Board immediately in writing during the last period? Has he always been completely transparent? Since when has that obligation been imposed on the CEO by the Management Board? What provisions were included in the agreement between Bpost and the CEO in case the involvement of G4S and/or the CEO would be proven? Has the CEO confirmed in writing that he is able and willing to travel to all Bpost subsidiaries? Rumor has it that he could not currently travel to the United States to attend, for example, a meeting of the board at Radial. Are there any trips planned? Has he visited the United States regularly in recent years? To what extent is it important that a CEO can regularly travel from bpost to the United States? It is important for the CEO to be able to function properly in the current circumstances, but there are some questions about this at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u5	Minister, 'if you can dream it, you can do it' is apparently the motto of the CEO of bpost, Mr Van Avermaet. Of course, that's a little cynical when we see what's happening to the company today. Following the announcement of the allegations against Mr Van Avermaet, the stock market value of bpost fell very sharply. There are also problems within the Management Board. My colleagues have already mentioned this. The Management Board requires complete transparency on the investigation of Mr Van Avermaet. It's written notifications within 24 hours. He must also be able to guarantee in writing that he can visit all the subsidiaries. Those are serious questions, aren't they? In a previous discussion on this matter in committee, you considered that it was up to the Governing Board to take action. You said: 'It is not up to me either, but to the board of directors of bpost to decide on the appointment, dismissal or any measures to be taken in relation to the CEO of bpost.' Do you still have the same opinion today? Do you still think it is up to the board of directors to take the right measures? Are you involved in the questions of the Management Board and the written communication? Is it true that a headhunter agency is looking for a new CEO? Who gave the order? Did it come from the board of directors or from you? Can you tell me if bpost paid both the old and the new CEO at the same time? Is there an overlap? I asked you that at a previous committee meeting. You told me then that you would give me that information in writing. Until now, however, this has not happened, which is why I am asking again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u6	Mr Minister, the situation at the top of the public limited liability company is at least worrying. It's becoming a bit of a pigeon house. Yesterday I read that the spokesperson Barbara Van Speybroeck quits after ten years of service. Last Thursday, together with two colleagues, I asked you questions about the situation at bpost, but your answers did not reassure me. You stated that the CEO of Bpost, Mr Van Avermaet, must comply with the obligation of transparency. If he doesn't comply, that could lead to his resignation. Surely it is clear, Minister, that Mr Van Avermaet does not fulfil that obligation? Mr Van Avermaet has been hiding all along, although we have asked him several times to come to Parliament. The BMA's investigation doesn't date from yesterday, it's been going on for months. I asked another question about this in June. We cannot deny that Mr Van Avermaet does not know the sector very well. Allow me to tell you a little anecdote. I remember his first interview when he arrived, which showed that he didn't even know the price of the stamps. Minister, what was the conclusion of the youngest board of Bpost? Has Mr Van Avermaet complied at all times with his obligation of transparency? Has Mr Van Avermaet acted with integrity at all times? If he doesn't, will he get his resignation? Is the transparency statement also binding on the board members of bpost? When were you actually informed by the BMA of the fraud investigation concerning Mr Van Avermaet? Did you receive a letter, mail or phone from the BMA? If so, when was that and what message did you receive? Chances are, bpost needs to find a new CEO. Who's gonna be assigned to the search? Is it the same headhunting agency or is it perhaps an idea for the social partners to be involved in the candidacy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u7	Mr Minister, the position of the Bpost CEO has been under discussion for some time, as colleagues have already mentioned, not because of his policy, but because there is an investigation into possible cartel infringements in the companies where the CEO was previously active. According to the media, that investigation would also result in the CEO no longer being able to travel to certain Bpost subsidiaries. There is a risk that he will be detained on the spot because of the ongoing investigation. In the plenary session last week, on 24 September, you recalled the CEO's obligation of transparency vis-à-vis the Management Board, whereby the CEO must immediately inform the Management Board in writing of any further developments in the file, so that the Management Board can take a decision in full knowledge of the matter in order to protect the company's interests as best as possible. The Management Board also asked the CEO to confirm in writing that he is able and willing to travel to all Bpost subsidiaries. The Council also asked to confirm its ability to take up its role as CEO of the entire bpost group. Mr Minister, has the CEO given the necessary written confirmations to the Governing Board? Do you consider that the CEO correctly complies with the transparency obligation vis-à-vis the Management Board? In the meantime, are there any elements that confirm or refute any mistakes that the CEO might have made?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to remind you of two basic rules. The CEO of bpost............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The appointment is entirely in the hands of the Management Board. That is a good thing. This can only benefit corporate governance and corporate governance. I therefore maintain my view from a few weeks ago that it is the board of directors that has to take responsibility here. There is also the separation of powers. This means that a minister is not informed of ongoing investigations, not by independent bodies such as the Competition Authority or foreign judicial investigations. Another rule in this respect is to remain innocent until proven guilty. It might be useful to charge that. Fortunately, the period in which people were lifted from their beds by political order in the middle of the night and brought to gulag has been behind us for some time and is undesirable in a liberal democracy, at least in my opinion. Having said that, it is important to dot a few points, even after my intervention last Thursday. I was therefore effectively not informed by the Competition Authority about the case. The first time I heard anything about the BMA's investigation was in a newspaper article. That was also when bpost was informed. The same applies to the investigation of the Department of Justice. I also had to read about this in the newspaper, like bpost apparently. The Governing Council also considers, of course, that it is not appropriate to anticipate effectively the outcome of proceedings by both the Belgian Competition Authority and the US Department of Justice concerning possible cartel infringements and the possible involvement of Mr Van Avermaet. The board of directors has informed me not to be able to make a decision on the basis of newspaper articles alone. However, it is quite clear, and this is also a question that I have asked the board of directors, that the CEO should be completely honest and transparent. As far as I am concerned, this transparency obligation plays a huge role. I therefore asked the Governing Board about the transparency obligation. In the meantime, as I have been asked, the issue has been discussed by the Governing Board. I have received feedback on what was going on there. The Management Board expects the CEO to effectively comply with its transparency obligation. The CEO was asked to provide the Management Board with a detailed reply this week. It was therefore effectively requested to inform the Governing Board immediately in writing of any further developments in the file, so that the Governing Board can take a decision in full knowledge of the matter in order to protect the company's interests as well as possible. If the CEO fails to comply with its transparency obligations in a timely manner, this is a serious error, which could lead to the termination of its contract without any compensation. The Management Board also asked the CEO to confirm in writing that he was able and willing to travel to all Bpost subsidiaries, insofar as COVID allowed in the current circumstances. After all, he must be able to perform his role as CEO of the group bpost. As far as I am concerned, the CEO must be able to travel to a country where bpost does business to meet and direct the local teams of bpost. This also applies in particular to investments and interests in North America. As far as Mr Henri de Romrée is concerned, he has effectively decided to leave the company. Barbara Van Speybroeck announced that last week. Mr de Romrée will remain on board until the end of the year in order to manage the peak at the end of the year. A procedure has been initiated by the remuneration committee and the board of directors and a replacement has been found in the meantime, which will take effect from 1 December. I would like to stress once again that a minister does not interfere with the appointment of management; that competence lies with the board of directors. When employees leave bpost, the company has an executive management success plan. The company is therefore effectively prepared for the departure of someone from the management team. As far as the CEO of Bpost is concerned, I think it is important to reiterate that Parliament's request for him to appear before a hearing will be addressed. In this way, his side of the story and the elements he wishes to provide can be communicated to you. A final question related to the communication charter with shareholders. Many companies with a public interest have already indicated in their corporate governance charter how to communicate with the various shareholders. Since bpost is also a publicly traded company, other rules apply as well. It goes without saying that all shareholders must be treated in the same way. It is therefore necessary to clarify the way in which communication with shareholders is implemented. This seems important to me, and it also exists in the corporate governance charters of other companies. So these are the different elements that I have, Mr. President. I think they answer most of the questions that have just been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u9	Minister, thank you. We'll check this out right away. I give the floor to the various speakers for their reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to respond to two points. The first relates to the fact that you and especially the bpost board of directors were not informed directly. That's an issue. You have been informed by the press, both as regards the Belgian investigation and the American investigation. One might wonder to what extent Mr. Van Avermaet has fulfilled his commitments to bpost. This is a very problematic issue. Can you confirm that Mr. Van Avermaet has yet to respond in writing, as was requested at the Board of Directors? Indeed, I did not hear that he had confirmed that he could travel everywhere and perform his duties as CEO. I welcome, in any case, the fact that he agreed to come to Parliament in a few days' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u12	The 6th of October, exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u13	My Ecolo-Groen group insisted that it be heard because it is really important. As you said, like every citizen, he must be able to benefit from the presumption of innocence. As representatives of the bpost majority shareholder, it is up to us to determine whether it is still in a position to run a major business such as the bpost which employs more than 30,000 workers and which faces enormous challenges in terms of services to citizens and economic model. Here I am thinking in particular of the delivery of paper mail and parcels, issues which we have already discussed in this committee. What matters to us is whether the current CEO, Mr. Van Avermaet, is still in a position to lead in a maximum bpost manner with the ambition that must be that of this society while conducting a serene and peaceful social dialogue. But for us, at this stage, the answer is not clear. Minister, could you please come back to the question of Mr. Does Van Avermaet have to send it to the board of directors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u14	Mr Vanden Burre, if I understand you correctly, you are asking for confirmation of Mr. Van Aveermaet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u15	Mr President, I think the minister has spoken on this, but I do not know whether he has already answered my question about the mail that Mr. Van Avermaet. I recall that the Board of Directors requested that Mr. Van Avermaet confirms in writing a series of elements. I would like to know whether this letter has already been received. If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u16	He should do it later this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Firstly, the basic principle is clear. We cannot condemn anyone until the investigation is completed. That's very clear. However, there is still a haze as to whether Mr Van Avermaet has always been sufficiently transparent with the board of directors. Secondly, there is also some doubt about the capacity to operate today in the current circumstances, because he may have restrictions on his freedom of movement. So there is still some doubt about that. Above all, we must conclude that the situation cannot last too long. We must hope that, in the interests of the employees, of the customers of bpost and of all of us, there will be rapid clarity and that the CEO will be able to operate fully as CEO. Finally, Minister, since it may be my last question to you in your current position, I would like to thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It seems clear to me that we must wait for the investigation. We cannot, however, deny that the impact is very high and that the consequences can also be for a company that is one of the largest employers in our country. The instability can also determine the future of the company. We can and must wait for the investigation. However, the question is how long this research will take. Other dossiers show that investigations at the BMA often do not go very smoothly. Hopefully the stability in the company can return. One point I didn't hear right. I may have missed it in your answer. However, I would like to repeat my question. Until when was the previous CEO paid? When will the current CEO be paid? I've asked that question a number of times. Maybe I missed the answer. However, it would be nice to get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u19	Mrs Depraetere, according to the information I have, Mr Van Avermaet has been paid from his arrival at post office. Of course, I have no idea how the conclusion of the contract at G4S is arranged. It could therefore be effective that the contract was still paid out in a certain way at the time of the conclusion of the contract. Maybe that's the overlap we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification, and I would also like to thank you for your work in recent years and for constructive cooperation with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u21	Minister, bpost is one of the largest companies in our country and a public company. In my opinion, the postmen and women are entitled to a policy by an honest and reliable person with knowledge of the sector. It's not the first time either. When he worked at Carestel, he was also convicted of mistreatment of the staff. So what's on the table now is not a bad thing. If it's an ordinary employee, he's probably been outside several times. I've said that a few times. We look forward to him coming to Parliament, where we will be able to ask him a lot of questions personally. Minister, you always hide behind the board of directors, but the government is still a majority shareholder and has a great responsibility in a public company with so many employees. We therefore believe that your answer points to a lack of responsibility on your part as a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u22	Mrs Vindevoghel, the opposite is true: it is precisely by following the rules of corporate governance that political interference in public companies has been reduced and that they could become performant companies. So I am not hiding behind the board of directors, I am strictly applying the rules of corporate governance, which are also laid down in the law, and I think this is only right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u23	Minister, it has just been confirmed that we are still waiting for a written confirmation. In any case, I hope that it will be clear soon. After all, Bpost is a company that stands for a huge change and transformation, so it is important that it is clear quickly. Finally, I would of course like to thank you for your great commitment and wish you every success in your new career.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u24	To conclude on this point, I would like to say two things. First of all, I confirm, but this has been said incidentally, that the bpost CEO will be our guest for a hearing next Tuesday, October 6. This hearing, previously planned, in non-suspect time, concerns the presentation of the CEO's strategy for the evolution of the bpost public enterprise. Coronavirus and containment prevented us from organizing it earlier. I think September-October was an ideal time to get management's answers to his vision of the evolution of public enterprise. As part of the hearing, everyone will be able to speak. Then, Minister, at the end of the committee, I will speak about our cooperation in recent years. I am not going to intervene at the end of this topical issue; some have done so individually. I will return to that earlier, as I did for Minister François Bellot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u25	Mr President, I would also like to welcome the constructive work that has been done with Minister De Backer in this committee. Above all, I have followed the theme of public enterprises. We are paying tribute. Politics is also a matter of men and women. There are ways to work. So I also wanted to wish Minister De Backer the best for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u26	Mr President, Minister, recently Proximus and Belfius announced their intention to pool their efforts in the development of their digital offer. It will therefore soon be possible to benefit from services from the telecom operator on the banking application and vice versa. In concrete terms, Belfius will provide Proximus with a clean neo-bank. Minister, what can you tell us about this alliance between two of the largest companies in our country? Can you give us more details? In your opinion, when can this alliance be fully operational? Will this change anything for Belfius customers and Proximus customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u27	Mr Prévot, let me be glad to see the two Belgian companies taking such an initiative in the digital sector. This initiative is truly able to better meet the needs of their current and future clients. It's in a really competitive market. The companies concerned communicate in time and time as soon as elements can be revealed. But the essential thing is that there is collaboration between companies to better serve both aspects of their customers. I think there is a real benefit to the customers themselves from the fact that both companies are now operating together around such an initiative. It's not really up to me to say anything more. It was these two companies that built this collaboration together. As more details become available, they will communicate them to clients and the general public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, it is gratifying that two large companies such as Belfius and Proximus are collaborating in two competitive sectors. You called him back. This can only be beneficial, in any case for their positioning in their markets. It will obviously be necessary to pay attention, in another commission, to all the additional services that will be offered to customers. This will be the consumer protection aspect, on which I will not fail to intervene. Finally, as is customary, I would also like to thank you for your cooperation. I've known you more in the Public Health Committee. Because I don't know what's left for you in the next few hours or days. Although we have not always agreed, relations have always been cordial and you have always been at the disposal of the committee. Thank you and wish you well! See you soon!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u29	Mr Minister, committee chairmen can also ask a question from time to time, and I have not abused that ability. So I'm going to ask you about workers' rights in making bpost uniforms. You will most certainly have learned, like me, of the investigation conducted by the NGO "We Social Movement" (WSM) – which I believe to be an emanation of the Christian Workers' Movement – on the working conditions of employees of enterprises installed in Romania to produce textiles. According to the report, the rights of workers employed in Romanian subsidiaries of two companies registered in Belgium would not be respected. In terms of wages, benefits, and the application of health and safety standards at work, the investigation indicates that there would be numerous shortcomings in two factories, where uniforms are made for the Belgian army by underpaid Romanian workers. However, it appears that the uniforms of bpost employees also come from these companies. Therefore, this situation is of great concern to us in view of the example that we are entitled to expect from a public company. Minister, how do you react to the release of this report? What follow-up do you intend to do? What are the minimum requirements that, in your opinion, public enterprises must meet when launching such markets? Should compliance with minimum international social and environmental standards not be taken into account in this type of market? How did bpost react and justify this order? How does it intend to remedy this situation in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u30	Mr President, thank you for your question. As a result of this report, bpost opened an investigation which showed that one of the companies mentioned, although providing uniforms, did not produce them in Romania. More generally, bpost refers to its corporate social responsibility policy. To ensure compliance with the procurement policy, a bpost manager includes in his procurement contracts a social and environmental clause which refers to the supplier code of conduct. This means that all the company's requirements for these are clearly described in their code of conduct and general conditions. It is also explicitly stated that bpost reserves the right to request an internal evaluation or other assignment to an independent body acting on behalf of bpost in order to verify compliance with this code and the more precise aspects of sustainability. If the supplier is unable to meet the bpost requirements, termination of the contract is a possibility. In partnership with an external company, bpost assesses the risks posed by suppliers and takes into account their social and environmental performance such as health and safety at work, as well as working conditions – for example, child labour or forced labour. This evaluation provides a rating of 1 to 100 for suppliers. If they score too low, bpost engages in a dialogue with them to see whether the company can help improve the performance of suppliers or whether the contract simply needs to be stopped. Since 2017, in addition to the evaluations, bpost has also conducted audits on the sites of high-risk suppliers, particularly with regard to textiles and new uniforms. These audits also cover child labour, human rights, the working environment, potential hazards, environmentally friendly production, cleanliness and compliance with bpost requirements. So a whole system is in place to avoid the various problems you refer to in your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u31	Minister, in itself, your answer is reassuring with regard to the public undertaking, if the basic statement is correct and verified. Finally, you contradict this NGO's investigation report. You're saying that's not reality. Personally, I don't know. I was wondering if bpost had reacted publicly as a result of this investigation and the publications that were made about it. I may have missed it, but I did not see a reaction saying that uniforms are not produced in Romania. Has there been a public reaction from the company in terms of communication to say that this information is not accurate? Where are the uniforms produced? Can you tell me more?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u32	No, not for the time being, but I will not fail to inform myself and to send you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u33	The issue is crucial. Are the bpost uniforms, in particular, produced in these factories in Romania or not? That's the key question! If it turns out that no, then your answer is indeed reassuring. But you have to make sure that's the reality. To your knowledge, has the public undertaking reacted publicly to deny the content of this report?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u34	I don't know. I need to know about this. The information that bpost has given me tells me that these uniforms are not produced in this factory. I look even further and come back to you with the answers to the two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u35	Mr.Minister, I thank you for this clarification because, personally, if I found myself confronted with such a charge, I would not fail to deny it, if that were the case. It is important that bpost be able to make this public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u36	Minister, bpost's mediation service received an increasing number of complaints, which have not yet been forwarded to the postal company itself. This is largely due to the inaccessibility of bpost's customer service. The customer who does manage to ask his question or report a problem must satisfy himself online with tracking data or be referred to the sender. Any person wishing to lodge a complaint at the point of contact of a post office or post office shall be referred to a telephone number. A phone menu must then put the caller on the right path, but often causes frustration. Most flows end in an automatic response or refer to the web site, where the complainant doesn't find his way either. The ombuds service recommends that bpost make its customer service more accessible so that each user has the opportunity to request information, report a problem and expect a follow-up. Minister, is it true that bpost's customer service is not so well accessible? Is there any way to make that customer service more accessible so that everyone can be helped?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u37	Mrs Dewulf, I would like to make the point that bpost's customer service would be inaccessible, to say the least. The customer service is accessible via several channels, ranging from the various post offices to the very classic letter and especially via the call centres and websites, using digital techniques, such as a chatbox for packages and bpaid cards. This accessibility is also evident from the latest figures, even during the corona period. The number of contacts in the various call centres of bpost increased by 42% in the period March-June compared to the same period in 2019, of course due to the greatly increased parcel activity. The treatment time did not suffer: 80 % of the contacts will be answered within 120 seconds. Bpost will also further improve customer service accessibility and take a number of initiatives, such as a new website, which will contain more information and which will be easier to find, improve the Track & Trace function and refine it, including by allowing the postman to provide direct input from his or her mobile device, so that the customer will also have more precise information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that bpost will make its customer service more accessible, because that problem is a very old one, so that every user, young and old, can ask for information and report a problem and expect follow-up. Thank you for your cooperation and wish you a very bright future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u39	Mr President, I would first like to join the honourable Members who have paid tribute to you. I also wish you every success in your new career, and I will, of course, ask your successor or successor the questions about the North Sea and those which interest me greatly. The Federal Investigation Body for Maritime Accidents (FOSO) is an independent investigation body and was established after the partial transposition of a European directive. By appealing for the annulment of the Law of 2 June 2012, the FOSO Act was revised and published on 11 August 2017, including an amendment of the law and then the Royal Decree of 28 January 2018, which governs the organisation, composition and functioning of the FOSO. FOSO has a research obligation which, in summary, states that all shipping accidents in Belgian waters and on Belgian ships worldwide should be investigated, as well as all work accidents resulting in an inability to work of more than 72 hours. At the beginning of August 2020 there was a fire on an LPG tanker in the port of Antwerp, but according to reports, the FOSO is still unable to act in the event of accidents on inland waterways, as this is a regional competence. The Flemish government could delegate the possibility of action to the FOSO, but apparently that has been postponed. Rapid on-the-spot determinations, however, is essential for the FOSO's range of action. The law also requires that the FOSO does not normally investigate accidents involving, for example, recreational craft, government vessels or inland waterway vessels. Can you explain the inability of the FOSO to act in the event of shipping accidents on inland waterways?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u40	Mr Ravyts, with the law of 11 August 2017, the federal government granted the FOSO the power to investigate serious accidents involving or on board Belgian vessels. These are accidents which cause the loss of a vessel or of human lives, structural damage to the vessel, stranding and so on. However, the investigation into the cause of a shipping accident occurring on inland waterways has been the responsibility of the regions since the sixth state reform. Following the first opinion of the Council of State, I made the offer to the three regions to have FOSO also investigate shipping accidents on inland waterways. The Brussels and Walloon governments had already made the necessary regulations in the past, but the discussions were more difficult at Flemish level. However, with the arrival of Minister Peeters, the Flemish government has also accelerated this dossier. On 10 July 2020, the Flemish Government adopted a draft decree establishing its own investigative body, but at the same time providing the legal basis for concluding a cooperation agreement with the federal level. The Federal Government gave a favourable opinion on this issue on 11 September. In the meantime, I have instructed my services to consult with the competent regional administrations on a draft cooperation agreement. For example, in the short term, accidents on inland waterways and in ports could also be investigated by FOSO. The intention is to submit a final version of the agreement to the various relevant ministers by mid-October. In this way, we can achieve good cooperation and the discussions on this will be a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for updating this dossier. I look forward with interest to the cooperation agreement, because it has been dragging on for too long. The sixth state reform dates back to January 2014, and it is only now that progress is being made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u42	Minister, some online businesses do not always account for or mention in the overall invoice a whole series of administrative fees, including customs fees. Some customers sometimes receive an invoice weeks or months after delivery of their package. They are then placed before the fait accompli because they have accepted the goods and can no longer refuse to pay the related costs. How can the consumer know the cost of withdrawing a package according to their country of origin? What is your position on imposing on online businesses that export to Belgium an indication of all the costs associated with the purchase of a good? If these costs are not indicated in advance, they should be borne by the sender. Furthermore, do you know how many people in Belgium received an invoice after the fact for this type of fee? Minister, my second question is this. In this pandemic period, Belgian consumers are increasingly turning to online platforms. My question is already several weeks ago. The report of the mediation service for the postal sector indicates that bpost regularly requests additional information from the recipient/buyer in order to be able to finalize the customs clearance. The recipient who wishes a revision of the calculation is directed to an email address which tells him, via an automated response, that the answer will be processed within ten days. But in fact, some buyers receive this message once or several times without any follow-up being given to them. Therefore, the package concerned is finally returned to the consignor. Has bpost put in place any changes in this organization to solve this problem? Can you tell me how many people have experienced this problem this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u43	Mrs Dedonder, your first question is important, but it falls within the competence of the Minister of the Economy with regard to consumer protection legislation. With regard to Belgian, European and international policy and regulation on customs fees, the Minister of Finance is responsible. I have to send you back to them for more details. As for your second question, less than 0.1% of international packages generate customer questions for return to the sender. In the vast majority of cases, these are incorrect or incomplete address problems. In this context, bpost was informed that some shipments would have been returned while customers would have provided all the necessary information. As a result of this information, bpost conducted an in-depth investigation and was able to identify two reasons for this situation. Following the health crisis, the volume of e-commerce shipments from abroad increased very rapidly. As a result, a much larger number of letters with requests for clarification had to be sent to customers whose shipments could not be cleared with the package information. Client responses then flowed in large numbers, resulting in a temporary treatment look. This substantial increase has also caused difficulties related to the usual dimensioning of computer capabilities. As a result, these different treatment capacities have been greatly expanded. bpost is no longer aware of cases where referrals of client packages would occur while the requested information was provided within the required time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u44	Minister, thank you for your second answer, and I am pleased to learn that there are no more bpost problems. As far as your first answer is concerned, I am a little frustrated as you refer me to the Ministers of Economy and Finance. I draw attention here to the fact that this should have been done from the outset, since I think I remember that the question of which minister my question was to be addressed had been asked. I shall therefore rest my question with the competent ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u45	Minister, over the past few weeks there have been actions in a number of places, including Charleroi, Liège, Bergen and Brussels. People are calling the alarm bell because of the too high workload, which has certainly increased enormously since the corona crisis. I've heard from a lot of people that they had to work harder than they did in the Christmas period. In the past, the summer months were often a calm period for postal staff, and now it was the opposite. The postmen complain about too high working pressure, permanent understaffing and verbal aggression of customers who hold them responsible for delays in delivering packages. Are there any national or other strike commitments submitted by the trade unions? Has there been any consultation between the management of Bpost and the social partners since Friday 11 September? If so, how does this social dialogue proceed? Are there any results? The parcel delivery guys complain that they have to deliver a double quantity compared to the last year. The workload was at first up to 120 %, whereas now it is sometimes 200 %. What about the tax? How many staff would have to recruit bpost in order to reduce that workload to an acceptable level? Is there a plan of action on recruitment? Can the temporary coronabonus be extended for post workers, as both the workload and turnover rates have increased significantly? Is there any possibility of a raise, given the good grades of bpost? Does bpost record the number of reports of verbal aggression towards his employees? If so, how many cases are involved? Is there an action plan on verbal aggression against bpost staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u46	Thank you for your questions. A national strike commitment was indeed tabled on 10 September, in common front. Several meetings of the social dialogue have already taken place. There are also plans, both at national and regional level. A national meeting took place on 23 September, in a very constructive atmosphere. At that time, both parties agreed to hold a next meeting in order to finalise and formalise the discussions. Since the COVID pandemic, the number of packets has increased by about 50%. On the other hand, we have seen a reduction of 14% in the delivery of letters. A general approach is currently being developed with the social partners to provide for additional recruitments, taking into account the end of the year that is coming towards us, and to which volume forecasts are linked, the initiation periods for the deployment of new colleagues, which is not always evident, and the evolution of absenteeism due to COVID or for other reasons. Negotiations and discussions with the social partners on the coronabonus are still ongoing. Therefore, I cannot give any further details on this matter today. Social dialogue is still under way. An action plan against intimidation and aggression has been drawn up, covering various dimensions, such as training, framework, infrastructure, organisation and some concrete actions for the company's employees to deal with and report on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u47	Minister, I did not understand correctly whether there was an effective increase in the number of packages to be delivered by the postmen. Has the workload been effectively increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u48	There are 50 % more packages and 14 % less letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u49	What matters to me is the workload per employee. Isn't it agreed and determined how many packages a staff member can deliver? According to what we hear, the percentage of packages per employee is much higher than before. Can you tell me if the percentage of parcels by postman has been increased?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u50	As there was an increase of 50% in the number of packages, I assume that during that period the workforce did not follow that exponential increase. The workload goes up automatically, of course. That is why it is discussed in the social dialogue, in order to see how it can be met, including with a view to the coming end-of-year period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u51	Minister, I am pleased that in the meantime negotiations are under way with the work organisations in order to reach a good agreement. I had also requested the employment figures. I am concerned about this. First of all, since the beginning of the year, quite a lot of people have been fired. Secondly, staff turnover is quite high. More than 600 employees have stopped, which is also a signal. I think that shows that there really is a problem. The workload for the staff is too high, so people do not keep up with the exercise of that job. New staff may be recruited, but if the company cannot retain its staff, it is a major problem. A third point I would like to raise is the problem of remuneration. The postmen had to work very hard. I really hope that the coronabonus can be extended and that wages can be negotiated, as in Germany, where the postal people have received a 5 percent wage premium. The postal people in our house also deserve a pay raise. The aid workers really make very little money for the much work they have to do. They often knock much more than eight hours a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u52	Mr President, Minister, it seems that the bpost company has recently gone through a period of social crisis. In fact, work stoppages have been observed in several post offices, notably in Brussels, while the distribution centre in Liège has been paralysed by a strike. It is the overload of work in some offices that would be called into question here. This would be due to the significant increase in the number of packages to be processed since the start of the VOCID-19 crisis. In addition, there is a lack of staff due to absences caused by the same virus, since it is enough for a person to be infected in an office to have his or her colleagues quarantined. The new distribution system introduced since March of issuing non-emergency shipments only two days a week has also been pointed out. On those two days, the factors actually have more unaddressed mail to distribute, which requires more preparation time. However, it had been decided to limit unaddressed mail during the VOCID-19 crisis. Finally, social distancing in the offices results in slowing down of activity, which does not help. Minister, does bpost management intend to react to ease these social tensions? If so, how? Is it possible to limit unaddressed mail again to avoid overloading factors? Lastly, was there any plans to recruit new staff to compensate for this shortage of staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u53	Mrs Zanchetta, a notice of a national strike was filed on September 10 at the common front. Following this notice, the bpost management and the unions set themselves around the table to discuss the various issues raised and to find answers and solutions. These are indeed problems of overload of work, lack of staff, and unaddressed shipments to be distributed, which are problematic since the number of packages to be distributed at the end of the year must be taken into account. In this context, several social consultation meetings have already taken place. Others are still planned, at national and regional level. On 23 September, a national meeting was held at which it was agreed to finalize and formalize the solutions as soon as possible. Restricting unaddressed mail is part of the ongoing discussions with the various social partners, as well as the recruitment of employees. bpost has engaged several hundred new colleagues since the VOCID-19 pandemic. A new adjusted recruitment plan was recently discussed with the social partners in order to be able to respond to the increase in the volume of packages during the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer, which is a little vague. These are not problems that resolve themselves overnight. But we will remain very attentive to this situation within bpost, to the lack of staff and to the overload of work. Indeed, the crisis will not end by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u55	Question No 5509061C by Mr Malik Ben Achour is transformed into a written question. Minister, Mr. Ben Achour asked me if you could forward your answer to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u56	Mr President, Minister, we heard that in Dinant about 40 people were infected at bpost. There was also an outbreak in Hoogstraten. Bpost plays a crucial role in this society today, more than ever. We notice this in terms of volume and the fact that there is more work. Workers remain concerned about working conditions and wonder whether they are safe. How many Bpost employees are currently in quarantine? How does that affect the operation of the company? Are the workers in quarantine replaced by newly recruited colleagues? Which offices are most affected by the virus? How did the virus spread to workers and in which sectors? What job profile do bpost employees who are quarantined? Are those managers, servants, hand-outs, drivers, sorters? What investments have already been made with regard to prevention and protection equipment? Does every employee have access to alcohol gel, gloves and mouth masks? Can distance rules be guaranteed for all postal workers during their working time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u57	Thank you very much for these questions, which very appropriately bring together my two hats of the last few months. Currently there are 88 staff in quarantine spread across different locations in the country. This has a limited impact on normal operation so far, but it is also absorbed by the use of temporary workers. It is true that Dinant's office has been hit hardest, but in the middle of this week most workers return to work, as their quarantine period will end. The virus is actually spreading through social contacts as a whole of our society. All function groups are present. Since the beginning of the crisis, Bpost has invested heavily in preventive means to prevent the virus from entering or spreading. There is free access to alcohol gel, disinfectant wipes and sprays everywhere. Reusable gloves or disposable gloves are available. This is also the case for the mouth masks and reusable mouth masks received by each post worker. Bpost has also rolled out a COOVID concept at all its workplaces, allowing the distance rules to be respected. Prevention is, therefore, being very strongly used to minimise problems and to ensure that staff are protected as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u58	I thank the Minister for the explanation and I hope that efforts will continue to be made so that staff can work safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u59	Minister, we have exhausted this morning's agenda. As some colleagues have already done, I would like to thank you for your cooperation with our committee. Indeed, you have always been very available to answer our questions. We both had the opportunity to debate together, in the previous legislature after you were appointed to the post of Secretary of State in particular for the fight against social fraud, the control of the unemployed. At the time, the discussions were – it is true – a little lively. The future will tell us what is happening with the evaluation of these control measures in terms of effectiveness and results. In any event, your powers as a minister in this Parliament have been extremely varied. In particular, they have led you to participate in several commissions. So you went from one commission to another. And with the onset of the coronavirus crisis, you had to answer the questions about masks and everything that affects this problem. You have therefore been strongly asked during this supposed transitional period pending a new government that should soon be formed. I thank you so much for your availability and the quality of your answers. I would also like to thank you for your very frank cooperation, even if we do not always share the same ideas. You are – it seems to me – a direct and frank man. I wish you the best for the rest of your life and professional career. That is what I wanted to say to close this committee and, no doubt – I suppose – at the end of this transitional period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-29-55-commissie-ic270x.u60	Mr President, thank you. I share those feelings. It was always a pleasure to appear here before you and your colleagues. The exchanges were sometimes lively, but always focused on the content. It's the most important thing for me. I would also like to thank all the colleagues present in Parliament, and you, Mr President, too, for these exchanges and for our cooperation in recent years.
