ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u1	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, more than four years after the Brexi meeting, Brussels and the British are still trying to reach a good agreement. The talks are difficult, including threats with legal procedures, which means that a hard Brexit is still not averted. Let us hope that there will be no hard Brexit, it is not yet ready. From 1 January, the transition period is over and the United Kingdom is de facto our first trading partner. Our country, with Flanders in its head, is in absolute need of trade agreements and stability. In any case, a Brexit, hard or soft, will have a strong impact on various aspects of our public finances, including the budget. Madam Secretary of State, our country could prepare for four years for any possible scenario. Have you already calculated and included the implications of a hard Brexit this year on Belgian public finances and this year's budget, and of course the following years? What concrete impact is expected on Flemish and Belgian prosperity, companies and employment? How many companies do you think will suffer from a hard Brexit? Can you also express this damage in an amount and/or as a percentage of GDP? How will the European Brexit Fund, which provides for EUR 5 billion, be distributed? How much will Belgium get out of that fund and how will it be distributed among the different entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u2	Mr Van der Donkt, of course I hope that an agreement will soon be reached with you. From a good point of view, I know that my former colleagues are working very hard on this. The budget is based on the economic budget. That September economic budget did not take into account a hard Brexit. The potential impact of this has therefore not been included in the budget. That is, of course, difficult as long as the negotiations are under way. Then there can be no concrete interpretation of what that scenario would be. Your second and third questions are more in the fields of competence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. However, I can quote a number of studies. According to a study published in June 2019 by Professor Van den Bossche van de KULeuven, 42.000 jobs would be lost in Belgium as a result of a hard Brexit, 28.000 of them in Flanders. With a soft Brexit, 10,000 jobs would be lost in Belgium, of which 6,500 in Flanders. The effect on prosperity is currently unknown to my administration. For more details, please contact the Minister for Economic Affairs. On the basis of the VIES returns, i.e. the VAT returns, for 2016 and 2017, almost 18,500 companies were registered annually exporting to the United Kingdom. 7,200 of these companies only export goods, 9,200 companies only export services and 2,100 companies both export goods and services. The data from the Intrastat declarations, which mainly cover large companies and are limited to trade in goods, show that 4,550 Belgian companies exported goods to the United Kingdom during the period 2016-2017. These data were provided by the National Bank of Belgium during the preparation of a report for the Brexit High Level Group. However, it is difficult to estimate the number of companies that will be affected by a hard Brexit. In addition, the short-term corona crisis that has been continuing for months seems to pose a greater threat. The above-mentioned study of the KUL indicates that Belgian GDP would fall 2.35 % in a hard Brexit compared to the scenario in which the United Kingdom would remain a member of the European Union. However, other international institutions expect less pronounced reductions, with the median result leading to a decrease in Belgian GDP of 0.9 %. A study by the National Bank of Belgium estimated the potential loss of GDP from a hard Brexit at 0,7%. The European Council from 17 to 21 July 2020, which was devoted to the European Union's multiannual budget and the European Recovery Plan, provided for a new Brexit Adjustment Reserve of 5 billion in the non-budget headings at the request of Ireland and Belgium. This is a fund that will support the toughest Member States and sectors affected by Brexit. It is not yet known how this European Brexit Fund will be distributed and for which sectors it will be used. The Belgian Government is already preparing itself for the committee's proposal on this matter. This is expected about mid-November. The basic Belgian position is that this fund should be used to support the most affected Member States and that appropriate attention should be paid to SMEs. In any case, in order to ensure good communication on the Belgian sensitivities in this dossier, the Belgian authorities remain closely involved in the maintenance of the committees to consider the elaboration and conditions of the Brexit Adjustment Reserve Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed reply. You may not know, but I asked Minister Van Peteghem a question on this two weeks ago, and his answer was less clear than yours. As far as the budget is concerned, would it not be more prudent to provide for a margin at this stage? Both a hard Brexit and a soft Brexit threaten to damage our companies. The Brexit will have an impact. That is why I dare to make this small suggestion. It is better to provide for something that is not necessary afterwards than to provide for nothing. d
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u4	Madam Secretary of State, on 1 October we received the budget table from the new government. The document raised more questions than it solved. During the debate on the government statement, the confusion about the document only increased, not least in the government banks themselves. During the Parliamentary debate, a first lively discussion between the Prime Minister and critical MPs on the amounts in the budget table arose. This immediately leads me to my first question, Madam Secretary of State. Can the resources for combating social and fiscal fraud be added together or not cumulatively to the action plan in the table? Which lines in the budget table are structural and which are one-off? For the preparation of the 2021 budget, the federal authorities and Länder based themselves on the latest economic forecasts of the Planning Bureau. However, these forecasts date from the beginning of September, when there were indications that this year's economy would shrink less sharply than previously assumed. However, the economic context is shifting. The forecasts should be adjusted by the bursting of the second corona wave and by government measures such as the closure of the catering industry for at least one month. A hard Brexit is also becoming more realistic. The government states that there should be no deviation from the contours of the coalition agreement, but that is, of course, a denial of reality. To what extent do you consider the parameters of the budget table itself to be realistic? By 2024, the new government is planning 3.5 billion in new policies, of which 3.2 billion are structural. It's in your table. The bulk of this structural policy, i.e. 2.1 billion, would go to raising the minimum pension and the lowest benefits. That's what we read in the press. Can you confirm that? How was the amount of 3.2 billion built up? That is not clear in the table. We see only a representation of the total amount. How was that amount built up? I would like to get a breakdown by theme. Part of the structural new policy goes towards raising the lowest pensions. By 2024, they will increase to 1,580 euros gross for a full career. How will the route go towards 1,580 euros? How is that funded? Perhaps even more important than the debate on raising the minimum pension is the real budgetary debate to follow, namely on the reform of the pension system. A government that really cares about pensions also makes work of a simpler, more transparent and fairer pension system. Will the pension system itself also be reformed? Perhaps more important than what is in the table are the amounts that are just not in the table: some EUR 4.7 billion of expenditure would be kept out of the budget, as we read in the press, including for SNCB and public infrastructure. Can you confirm those amounts? What items of expenditure and what amounts are involved? In the meantime, all the governments in this country share the view that they want to push certain expenditure out of their budget, but this obviously requires an agreement with Europe. To what extent have you already consulted on this and reached an agreement with Europe? One of the most striking figures in the government statement is the 80% rate of activity which the government intends to achieve by 2030. According to specialists, some 700,000 extra people would have to work for this or some 70,000 people on an annual basis. Do you consider that realistic and to what extent was this effect taken into account in the budget table and for what amount? The government also strives for a fair contribution from those with the highest capacity. To what extent was this measure included in the budget table and for what amount? The government is also aiming for a form of digital valuation. Since the adoption of the European Recovery Plan this summer, the European Union has been allowed to levy this tax itself. Who is supposed to get the income from those digitalaks, Madam Secretary of State? In the budget table, income is included in the Belgian budget, but our country has agreed that Europe can collect these amounts as own resources. Shouldn't the income of the digitals be included in the European budget? The government is also aiming for an OECD tax of around EUR 300 million by 2024. To what extent is such an OECD tax for large companies considered realistic, given the fact that a number of OECD countries seem to be at odds? At first sight, this does not appear to be taken into account in the budget table. How do you see that tax? After all, he is under attack, but you have already entered him in the budget. Is that a proper course of action? The government aims to obtain 480 million euros from VAT and excise duties on tobacco by 2024. However, this revenue for the budget is not specified in the coalition agreement. What VAT revenue are you actually referring to in the table and what increase in excise duties on tobacco can we expect? In April, European Finance Ministers decided to set up three safety nets for a total volume of EUR 540 billion in the framework of corona. The European Council also approved an additional €750 billion recovery plan for post-corona recovery. To what extent were these European funds already included in this budget table? What exactly does the Belgian budget count on? The budget table indicates a deficit in entity I of 3.4 % by 2024. Europe comprises the deficits of all Belgian authorities, including the Länder and local authorities. My question is therefore clear. Will debt levels remain under control with a budget deficit of 3.4 %? What degree of debt does the government intend to end in 2024? I shall drop my last question because it will come back in my other oral question and have been updated there. I look forward to your reply, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u5	Madam President, I will answer the questions in the same order as they were asked. The first question concerns line 29 in the budget table of the formation note, 'the fight against social and fiscal fraud action plan'. For each year there is the estimated reception. For example, in 2021, this amounts to EUR 200 million and in 2020 to EUR 1 billion. Then I come to the second question. The negotiations were based on the Monitoring Committee's report, the estimates of which were based on the economic parameters of the September economic budget. These estimates do not take into account a hard Brexit, nor a second COOVID-19 wave as it is now manifesting. It is therefore expected that the growth rates for 2020 are likely to be too high. It is inherent in the budgetary work that the parameters on which it is based can be quickly overtaken by reality, and certainly in the special circumstances in which we now find ourselves. This is also why one or more budget controls are provided for each year. It is particularly important now that a full budget can finally be adopted after two years. It must also allow the government to pursue a re-launch and investment policy to cope with the socio-economic consequences of the COOVID crisis. Of course, the economic environment and its impact on the budget must be closely monitored. We are therefore very much planning to do so. We will work to systematically analyse the economic situation and, where necessary, to reform the budget. With regard to the third question, the EUR 3.2 billion has been implemented as follows. It is a budget for 2024 each time. The amount for 2024 is therefore a final amount. You will see the details of this in the multiannual estimate that will be submitted to Parliament. So you will soon be able to see the details. The fourth question on increases in minimum pensions. A budget envelope has been set aside for this, ranging from EUR 255 million in 2021 to EUR 1.2 billion in 2024. This should allow for an increase of 11% in the minimum pensions of head of household, single, survivor's pension in the schemes for employed and self-employed persons and for the minimum pensions of the civil service system to be brought into line with the amounts thus obtained. These increases will be implemented on 1 January 2021, 1 January 2022, 1 January 2023 and 1 January 2024, each amounting to 25% of the total increase foreseen throughout the legislative period. There is no separate financing of this measure. After all, it was integrated into the government's multiannual budgetary plan. In reply to your fifth question on investment, I can tell you that there is no list of investments that will be kept outside the budget. However, the government agreement stipulates that consultations will be held with the European Commission on the budgetary processing of these additional investments. In any case, the maximum amount of external funding will be used for investment. The final volume of investment will depend on the share of European funding that can be obtained and the budgetary accounting rules to be applied. However, a minimum of EUR 1 billion of additional investment is envisaged. In reply to your sixth question, I would like to inform you that a positive effect of higher employment will be taken into account, rising from EUR 50 million in 2021 to EUR 400 million in 2024. Your seventh question was about the action of those with the greatest capacity, in particular whether that measure was included in the budget table. That is not the case. The impact of that measure was not included in the budget table. I'll take your eighth and ninth questions together. The answer to these questions is that it falls within the competence of my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance. I therefore suggest that you address these questions to him rather. It is about the implementation of the policy. Your tenth question concerns Belgium's share of the subsidies under the Recovery and Resilience Facility. This share is expressed in 2018 prices and therefore not in current prices. This share has been estimated at EUR 5.15 billion. The federal government hopes to be able to use at least EUR 1 billion of this share to finance additional investments. You also had a question about the degree of debt. In order to estimate the degree of debt of the Joint Government Horizon 2024, we also need to have the budgetary pathways of the communities and the regions. That is not the case at the moment. Of course, we follow that closely. Once the data are available, we will carry out our analyses and provide you with the necessary information. Finally, 12th, on 15 October 2020, a preliminary draft budget plan was submitted to the European Commission under unchanged policies. The intention is to present a full plan by the end of October, beginning of November 2020. For the preparation of both the provisional and the final plan, input was requested from the communities and regions. There has been no consultation with the communities and regions. However, that plan will be submitted in good time. Those are the answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u6	Madam President, for the record, my speech has been postponed for more than a week than has been allowed in the Rules of Procedure. That is not allowed, but an answer after three weeks is apparently tolerated. I also get the answer that some of my questions will be answered by the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance said last week, I quote: "I am not answering those questions. They will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Budget." That's how we're sent from the locker to the wall. I hope this will not be repeated. Then I come to my reply, Madam Secretary of State. Since my political awareness, since my 16 years I have grown up among the Verhofstadt governments. Verhofstadt came to power in 1999. At that time, there was a primary balance of 6% of GDP under the Dehaene government, which was to be honored. Verhofstadt has managed in those years to completely submerge that. Then there was a surplus. Now we have inherited a pit of EUR 14 billion from the previous government, a collective responsibility of all Swedish parties. At that time, there was an up-and-coming economic situation. Now we're in some sort of war economy, as you yourself say in the press. Madam Secretary of State, sometimes I get the feeling that the ancient purple demons of the Verhofstadt governments are reappearing. The Verhofstadt I government broke with the reorganisations of the Dehaene governments and started to increase spending. The new government agreement already contains a great deal of expenditure, but its financing, as you have to admit, is being pushed forward into the future. The Liberals and Christian Democrats in this House have actually fallen into the left-wing expenditure trap with open eyes. The red-green billions of invoices are becoming increasingly clear, but how many new taxes and debts will be made remains a mystery today. The much-needed reforms to help pay these invoices are also missing or unclear. In a government with seven parties and four ideologies, these much-needed reforms threaten to get bogged down in discussions, postponements and ultimately set-off. Since Verhofstadt, the liberals have been part of any government in this country for more than 20 years. For 20 years the liberals have not promised new taxes, but the tax burden and the public debt have only increased. During the negotiations we heard almost daily the promises of the liberals that there would be no new taxes, but even now it is yet another broken promise. The information note clearly states the sentence, and I quote: 'No new taxes are introduced except in the context of a budgetary debate'. It's like a booze addict would say, "I'm not gonna drink any more beers unless there's a party." Those who introduce new taxes know that a preponderance will eventually be sought in Flanders. New taxes are not only possible in a budget debate, they will also be necessary through the wells of the Swedish Government and the high cost of the new purple-green policy. Purple-green will have to look for new taxes in every budget format and every budgetary control. The government agreement provides that at least one third of these resources will come from income. Every purple-green tax will become a tax on the Flemings. The Flemings, like the Verhofstadt governments, will be allowed to pay the price. There will also almost certainly be an additional load on power. This is not confirmed in this table, but the coalition agreement does provide for the contribution of those who have the greatest capacity. We all know who these people are: the savers, especially in Flanders, who have put away an apple for thirst, or the self-employed, especially in Flanders, who have built up a capacity to compensate for their much too low pension. Remarkably, in earlier versions of the coalition chord, the word 'power' was still used instead of the word'support', but that is merely a word struggle. Belgium already has a lot of fragmented capital taxes and is already one of the countries with the highest wealth revenue in Europe today. So this government wants to put a little bit more on top of that. The budget was knocked off overnight and the expected hangover came afterwards. This new purple-green government is threatening to land with the same disastrous budgetary magic tricks as the purple-green Verhofstadt Kabinets. With 'various' - as is also stated in the coalition agreement - with 'one-off measures' and counting themselves rich in 'fraud', the growing gap in the budget is closed. In the meantime, several economists point out that even Prime Minister De Croo misinterpreted the budget table. After 20 years, therefore, the new government is reconnected with the tradition of that first Verhofstadt government which initiated the fiscal derailment in this country. After all, it is easier to reach an agreement with seven parties if expenditure is increased and the debate on income is postponed. There will be no buffers for future crises, which will inevitably occur. This puts pressure on the affordability of pensions. Belgium has not only the most left-wing government ever, but now officially has a kind of Walloon budget. The information note consists of tens of pages of expenditure in relation to one lean chapter on the budget. The government's budgetary plans are irresponsible to our children and grandchildren, and they bring us straight to the column of weak and guilty countries. That last sentence, that is not the words of the Flemish Interest or of the Flemish opposition, but of Hendrik Bogaert of CD&V, who used to sit on this committee, in his disapproving explanation of vote on this coalition agreement. Many in Parliament may remember the target of 200,000 additional jobs promised by the Verhofstadt II government in 2003. In addition to a lot of criticism in the press, it also gave rise to a lot of laughs, because of course it is not the government that creates jobs, that is what our companies do. But that doesn't seem to stop the new purple-green government from doing exactly the same thing. One of the notable figures in the government statement I mentioned earlier is the rate of effectiveness of 80% by 2030. For this, some 700,000 extra people have to work or some 70,000 people on an annual basis. According to Jan Denys, labour market specialist at Randstad, the odds are about zero. There is also no mention of a reduction in charges. Guy Verhofstadt said the following in the press in January 2008, I quote: "There is no money. The federal government has hardly any money for reduction of charges and purchasing power measures." Verhofstadt, of course, knew what he was talking about, because he, together with the then Budget Minister, Johan Vande Lanotte, made sure that there was no more money. The situation has only got worse today, and the coalition agreement is not so much interesting about what is in it, but above all about what is not in it. In the coalition agreement we do not find a word about cuts in charges, nothing at all. Belgium is one of the countries with the highest public debt and the highest taxes in the world and yet the greenhouse is empty. The Belgian State is above its standards and this left-wing and anti-Flemish coalition will not change that, on the contrary. I conclude, Madam Secretary of State. You must have understood the message. We are going to follow this government and budgetary policy constructively but critically in this committee and in Parliament in the interests of all Flemings who work, save and undertake. That is why we are tabling a motion today. We want to be able to look at your budgetary work in depth, and that is why we are asking the government to provide Parliament with all the information, parameters and explanatory notes on the budget table, and I am submitting a motion to this effect to the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u7	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, following on from this interplay and motion, I would first like to say that I am particularly pleased that there is, in the end, a government that can draw up a budget. It is two years since, for reasons which are still incomprehensible to many, a coalition partner left the ship and the budget that was ready could not be approved, with all the consequences, namely a powerless Parliament that has spent a lot of money and a government that could not carry out normal budgetary controls and could not take the necessary measures to reverse the tide. It is the role of the opposition to oppose, to be critical, but also to be credible. Mr Vermeersch, you recently voted to reduce VAT on soap and washing powder. The cost of this is 200 million euros per year. Fortunately, this bill did not go beyond the committee. You voted in favour in committee, along with all your colleagues. This afternoon, you will make a point on the committee's day order concerning the reduction of VAT on gas and electricity to 6%. You made this point with your colleagues in the PTB-PVDA, with whom you have also been able to push through a number of other expensive legislative proposals in Parliament. So there is some modesty at stake. However, I share your concern about the state finances. It is therefore important that, in the short time available to the Secretary of State and the Government, the Secretary of State does her job and explains the work well. The priority, however, is for everyone to do their homework. That is why I have tabled a simple motion which I propose so that our time here and also the government's time can be spent usefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u8	Madam President, allow me to take the floor on this point. Mr Leysen, the coalition agreement also says that fake news will be fought and falsehoods will be addressed. I think it is important that you take a look at the exact history of the situation. Firstly, the previous Swedish Government has fallen. Why? Because your party, Open Vld, considered it more important to go to Marrakesh and sign it, while we might as well have continued Swedish economic revival policy. You chose not to. Responsibility must be sought above all in that corner. Secondly, you say that a budget could not be approved after N-VA had left the government. That is completely incorrect. We did leave the government because you thought Marrakesh was so important. We immediately said that our N-VA Group would remain available to support the budget, provided that the totality of the budget would be put to the vote effectively, including the conditions set out in the Summer Agreement, with more jobs, so that more people became active and started working. What happened? As soon as the N-VA has left the government, your party, as well as the other parties in the rest of the government, has immediately dropped the reform agenda. Only the expenditure agenda was allowed to remain. The turn to the left was used, but the reform agenda was immediately thrown into the garbage can. An ordinary royal decree has even remained in the drawer of Kris Peeters, when he should have just issued that royal decree. We were available to approve that budget effectively, including the reform agenda. However, it has become very clear who in the Swedish Government apparently mainly took care of the dash and the reforms. As soon as the N-VA has left the government, the reform agenda has also been abandoned. That's for Mr. Leysen. I can repeat that repeatedly - you continue to send fake news out into the world and will be happy to do so. However, I would like to touch on the subject of the budget. Mrs De Bleeker, congratulations on your position, but also on the fact that you did not receive a gift. You have to match the figures with a team that wants to do nothing more than spend a lot of money and perhaps raise new taxes here and there. You are dealing with the second corona wave that we are experiencing and on top of that there is also a Brexit crisis. It is going to be a huge challenge, but you have to do it with half an A4 which is tied together with hooks and eyes, the text of which is unclear rather than transparent. You have to deal with a number of budget notifications, which also do not give full transparency. The question was asked here whether you could give figures. Is that half A4 right? In your reply, it is striking that you do not go into this in detail. You do not give the figures, you refer to what will come with the budget. It is your right to do so, but it is important that people know what these figures are like. It's not my numbers, it's the numbers from the planning agency. Let's take a look at the tables on that A4's. You say we left from the monitoring committee's parameters. If you just take a look at the base, you will notice that the base is wrong. The growth rates are wrong or at least unrealistic, compared to the figures of the Federal Planning Office. In times of crisis one would think to be more cautious than more realistic. We know that growth rates are rather optimistic. You say there's a table about new policies. The total amount involved is 3.2 billion new structural policies. You haven't given me all the details yet. I'm counting on the Plan Bureau's figures. Health expenditure will require at least 1.2 billion if it does not take into account the growth standard that should be added to it. If it comes up, another 650 to 750 million will come up. Carefully, I'll say 1.2 billion for health care. As far as pensions are concerned, if you want to do it decently, you need 2.3 billion to go towards EUR 1,500 net, without the payback effects, it is even 3.2 billion. Mr Bouchez said in an interview that 760 million would be allocated to pensions. We have not seen any transparency about this. Carefully, I'll take 760 million for pensions. Together with the 1.2 billion for healthcare, we are already coming up with 1.9 billion new policies. Security expenditure is also a small amount of 500 million. Adding together the amounts for the tax exemption for the first employee, childcare, parental leave and pension bonus, according to the basic figures of the Plan Bureau, will bring about 3.2 billion, without taking into account all the expenditure needed for pensions and without the growth standard for health care. However, that is not the end of the coalition agreement. According to the government agreement, development aid is increased to 0,7% of GDP, representing a further 750 million. Benefits will also be brought above the poverty threshold. That's $1.6 billion. SNCB will receive additional money and the VAT for reconstruction will be reduced. With that list we arrive again, carefully calculated, at least 2.5 billion, an amount that is not included in the tables. I have not yet mentioned the gas plants which will also have to be financed, and the defence expenditure, which should actually be made available. With these 3.2 billion recurring expenditures based on the figures of the Planning Bureau, you simply won't get there. It'll be more like double the amount. If we look at revenue after spending, the table shows that there are 4 billion fixed savings and 3 billion variable savings. For these 3 billion variable savings, no detail is yet available. I hope that your budgetary work will also shed some light on that. The table gives the impression that it is easy to find 3 billion recurrents. That amount will just be registered and then we'll see. However, we all know that it is hugely difficult. We all know what costs are coming to us. Yet in the table, without details, it says that 3 billion will be found. There is a list for the 4 billion fixed savings, but some questions can be asked about their seriousness. 1 billion will be found in the case of social and fiscal fraud. Each government over the last 10 years has collected around 250 to 350 million a year. The government will raise that amount to 1 billion in 2024. According to the Prime Minister's reading, this will be structural. In his view, however, the amounts should not be added up. So that means 1 billion structural measures to combat the crisis, while we only received ad hoc solutions of 250 to 350 million in all previous years? And then this government had to do so in a constellation where no minister for social fraud was even appointed, something that was corrected after our criticism and where there is now a coordinating function for Mr Van Peteghem. Fraud must be tackled. Rather to tackle fraud than introduce new taxes, but one pretends that one billion can be found there. It could be said that this government may be reckoning well. 400 million will be found to put more people to work, but the coalition agreement does not contain any serious measure that will enable this to happen. There must be no interference with the bridge pension and unemployment benefits must not be reduced, but 400 million will still be found. One thing you will undoubtedly be very interested in, since you yourself have been an expert on trade policy in the European Commission, is that the digitals will yield 100 million. You know how this dossier lives at European level. This is typical of what we have to do at international or at least at European level, but this government says that if we do not, we will do it on our own. I put the question to Mr Van Peteghem and he replied to me that we will do it in enhanced cooperation, not with a number of partner countries, but if we could not do it on our own if necessary. That was the answer from the Minister of Finance. There are countries that have tried that, like France. France has done so alone for one year. What was the reaction? Immediately, America threatened trade sanctions, a theme you know very well. What has Mr Macron done? He immediately came back to his idea and that tax was simply cut. We have a budget table in which the illusion is created that 100 million can be entered, while France proves that it cannot be done on its own. Moreover, the coalition agreement says that if it succeeds, those pennies must go to Europe and cannot come to Belgium. Your government even welcomes that, but still there is 100 million in that table. And so there is an example of how not only expenditure is a little too optimistic, but certainly income, tax increases. That does scare us a little, because we know what was clearly agreed in this coalition agreement, especially how the holes will be closed. Madam Secretary of State for the Budget, you gave a number of interviews on the radio, in which you said that it is the challenge of this government to reduce the deficit of about 18 billion that we would have at the end of the journey to 12 billion. That is about 6 billion, very roughly estimated, and you say here that we will introduce 3 to 4 billion new policies. Six plus four is ten billion. What does the government agreement say about the 10 billion to be found? We will find a third of them with reforms - savings - and a third with new taxes and a third with various measures. In other words, about 3.5 billion savings, 3.5 billion new taxes and 3.5 billion different measures, which we know are often also additional taxes. This coalition agreement is very unclear as to what these figures are based on. It's a little wet fingering. If we are to simulate very carefully on the basis of the figures of the Planning Bureau, we can see that what is on the table is really not right. What is quite clear is how the invoice will eventually be paid, and that is with at least one third of the taxes, and whoever carefully calculates there will find that it will be more. I would also like to call for a more budgetaryly serious approach. Once again, this is absolutely not a reproach to you; you have fallen into this exercise after a very brief form of government. Government formation took a very long time, 16 people started working, but the final phase was very short. It is seen that everything was just being handled too quickly. The simulations that had to be run are simply too imprecise. I hope that this government team will find it very serious in the way it works for the future. You will have no choice, because Europe also expects figures. I wish you every success and courage in doing so. We know your focus and personal conviction regarding the functioning of the government and the accuracy of the pennies. So it's reassuring that you're sitting on that chair, sincere, but it's definitely not a gift.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u9	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, Mr Loones, I know that in your party trupian use of words, such as fake news, has become very popular, but let us be honest. You resigned in December 2018, didn't you? You have also approved the VAT reduction on soap and washing powder, haven't you? Bis repetita non placent. Repetition bores. Let the government do its job and be patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u10	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter Vermeersch and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Wouter Vermeersch and the reply of the Secretary of State for the Budget and Consumer Protection, attached to the Minister of Justice with responsibility for the North Sea, - having regard to the very limited budget table which the government provided to Members of Parliament in connection with the intro duction debate; - having regard to the fact that the investigation debate has only increased the uncertainty surrounding the table; - whereas Parliament is entitled to the greatest possible openness on the part of the government; - whereas several media mention the fact that a more extensive table has already been drawn up; - having regard to the fact that Europe of Belgium requests a full budget table by 30 October; asks the government - to provide the Federal Parliament with a comprehensive budget table as soon as possible; - provide Parliament with all the information, parameters and explanatory notes to this table.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Wouter Vermeersch and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Wouter Vermeersch and the response of the Secretary of State for Budget and Consumer Protection, Assistant to the Minister of Justice, in charge of the North Sea, - considering the very summary budget table transmitted by the government to Members of Parliament during the nomination debate; - Whereas the nomination debate only increased the imprecision around this table; - Whereas Parliament has the right to maximum transparency on the part of the Government; - Whereas, according to several media, a more detailed picture has already been drawn up; - Whereas Europe asks Belgium to submit a full budget table by 30 October; asks the government - to provide the Federal Parliament with a detailed budget table as soon as possible; - to provide Parliament with all the information, parameters and comments underlying this table." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. A simple motion was tabled by Christian Leysen. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u11	Madam Secretary of State, I can be brief, because it has just dealt with the subject. It was fun in the car this morning, because Vincent Van Peteghem, the new finance minister, was on the radio. He comes with a new experiment: he opts for radical transparency. As early as possible in the legislative and government work, he wants to make texts public and ensure that information is shared. You already feel me coming: you are also on very interesting information, especially the budget. In fact, we know very little about the budget. We have the A4 sheet distributed in the government statement and we read in the newspapers that the budget notifications were approved at last Friday's Council of Ministers. Given the new transparency dynamics of your colleague, I have looked at my mailbox, but I have not yet found the budget notifications. I trust you will be happy to follow the new style of the Minister of Finance, hence my very brief questions. Budgetary notifications were decided last Friday. Is it possible to deliver it to us today? Behind these notifications there is of course a whole series of chips about how things are calculated and made up. If you have them, you can deliver them today, but later this week is also good, because that gives us the chance to study them very seriously during the autumn holidays. There is also the whole budget to be delivered to the European Commission at the end of this week. We have already discussed this in committee. Will the budget also be forwarded immediately to all Members of Parliament? In other words, will you follow Mr Van Peteghem's break of style and provide transparency about the budget, rather today than tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u12	Madam President, I have an explanation, a line by line, of the table. I would like to reassure you of this, although I think you will have looked at that table very carefully. Line 1 contains the nominal balance of the unchanged policy. For 2021, therefore, a provisional figure communicated by the Monitoring Committee was used. This represents EUR 495 million of the figure included in the final report of the Monitoring Committee, which was not available until 6 October, after this table was drawn up. For the following years, the balance was derived from the July Monitoring Committee report. Line 2 gives the nominal balance under unchanged policies, expressed as a percentage of GDP. GDP is on line 37, all the way down. Line 3 is no longer used in the table. So we shouldn't be waking up to that anymore. Line 4 gives the overall budgetary impact of the government-decided new policies for the year 2024. You can see that in the last column. Line 5 specifies the resources that will be devoted to relay policy under the new policy. This includes the continuation in 2021 of a number of measures taken under COVID-19, the extension of the investment deduction system and the introduction of the reconstruction reserve system. Line 6 gives the resources that the government wants to use in the framework of the Climate Action Plan. Line 7 gives the structural impact on cruising speed, 3.2 billion euros, of the government's new policy. That's by 2024. For more details, please refer to the answer to Mr Vermeersch's question. Line 8 relates to the investment plan. The government wants to make additional investments of at least EUR 1 billion during the legislative period. No budgetary impact was prevented because European funds are expected to finance these investments. This would come from the pot that comes from Europe to Belgium, divided between the regions and the federal level, where EUR 1 billion is foreseen. Line 9 represents the total of the fixed budgetary effort. The government has committed itself to making a firm budgetary effort of 0.2% of GDP each year, as you have just explained. Line 10 represents the total of the fixed fiscal effort as a percentage of GDP. Line 11 shows the total effort on primary expenditure. Line 12 represents the share of primary expenditure in the fixed budgetary effort. Lines 13 to 17 reflect the impact of the decided expenditure measures. Line 18 reflects the overall estimated impact of the tax measures. Line 19 shows the share of the tax measure as a percentage of the total variable effort. Lines 20 to 24 reflect the estimated impact of the reception measures. Line 25 shows the total impact of the so-called various measures. Line 26 reflects the share of the various measures in the overall commitment. Line 27 to line 30 façade again the impact of the measures decided under this heading. Line 31 shows the size of the variable effort. This variable effort will depend on economic growth and recovery. When the Belgian economy has recovered sufficiently from the corona crisis and the economy is growing back according to its potential growth, the variable effort will be equal to 0.2 % of gross domestic product per year. However, if economic growth is lower, the variable effort will normally be smaller. If economic growth is higher, the variable effort will, of course, be higher. Line 32 reflects the variable effort as a percentage of GDP. Based on the latest economic outlook of the Federal Planning Bureau, this represents a variable fiscal effort for entity I of 0.6 % GDP by 2024, as I explained last time on the basis of the table. Line 33 reflects the overall budgetary effort. It rises from around €1 billion in 2021 to €7.2 billion in 2024. Line 34, based on the latest economic outlook of the Federal Planning Office, the budgetary effort to be made is 1.4 % of GDP by 2024, of which 0.8 % of GDP is committed and 0.6 % of variable efforts. Line 35 gives the estimated balance of claims for 2024, i.e. a deficit of EUR 18.1 billion. Line 36 shows the estimated deficit as a percentage of gross domestic product for the year 2024, i.e. minus 3.4 %. Line 37 shows the nominal gross domestic product used for the calculations in this table. With that I have provided an overview per line. You also have a question about the notifications. These will be translated into the figures table by the administrations. Now the material work is being done to get the budget into the documents that Parliament will receive. That's a 3,000-page document. This is now being worked very hard with man and power against the clock. This will be fully available by 13 November at the latest. The European draft budgetary plan will be completed by the end of this week. The final document was not available yesterday. What are we doing now? That is the budget and the text. We're still getting information from Brussels. From the French Community comes the COVID-19 update. The Joint Community Committee must also provide input. That is still being collected and conceived this week in the document that will be ready by Friday 30 October. You said it yourself, it is a great deal of work that needs to be done in a very short time. We're working very hard here. It is our commitment to deliver the document, which is very technical, to Parliament and the Court of Auditors as correctly and in good time as possible, so that we can follow the timetable for the adoption of the budget. Once that information is available, we will share it, because we want the process of discussion in committee and Parliament to be able to continue. We want to approve this year so that we can start with a budget in 2021. That is our main objective. We also have every interest in ensuring that this is done in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u13	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, you are right, it is a huge job to draw up such a budget. We also want this to be done thoroughly and precisely, otherwise we will end up with haste, like that A4 sheet, and that is not the intention. It's supposed to be thorough. You say that there will be a budget of more than 3,000 pages, which makes sense, and that it would be available by 13 November at the latest. However, I would urge you, Madam President, to ensure that this work is available to Parliament as soon as possible. To draw up 3,000 pages is a great deal of work, but Parliament must also have sufficient time to check it properly. I hope that this will be the style of this government, which wants a new political wind blowing, with proper cooperation and so on. It must be clear that it is absolutely impossible for 3,000 pages to be thrown on our desk to have discussions immediately after, without sufficient time to study it. Madam President, that is more a question for you. Madam Secretary of State, you say that at the end of this week the tables will be available for the European Commission. Can you then share it with Parliament immediately? I know that this is in a different format from the budget, but once these texts are in existence, I think it is sensible and correct that they should be shared. They will still circulate, so you can communicate proactively yourself. I would like to make a specific point from crossing all the lines in your answer. It is about the European Union's corona fund, which is 5 billion. You said that those 1 billion investments that come out of that pot of 5 billion. This means that there is still 4 billion left to divide between the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u14	That remains to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u15	If we take Brussels as an abstraction, which we should never do, but we do it now for the simplicity of calculation, it amounts to about 2.4 billion for Flanders and 1.6 billion for Wallonia. That is a lot less than the at least EUR 3 billion that the Flemish Budget Minister put forward. That figure of 3 billion wasn't just taken out of the sky. After all, the European Commission expects certain things to happen with these pennies. This concerns, for example, investments in mobility, housing isolation, a number of green issues and so on. Those are all state powers. Those are not federal powers, they are state powers. So it would be a little strange if Europe expected us to do business that the Länder would be taking money from the federal government to finance their own expenditure. The 2.4 billion for Flanders seems to me to be a little too low.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u16	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, you may have heard from the Minister of Finance that I looked at the texts circulating during the negotiations and then compared them to the government agreement. That's how I wanted to reconstruct what happened. The most interesting point is, of course, the comparison of the final coalition agreement with the agreement of the informers Lachaert and Rousseau. Specifically with regard to healthcare, the government agreement mentions, I quote: "For the year 2021, the legal growth standard will be determined on the basis of the technical estimates... The legal growth standard shall be set at 2,5 % from the year 2022." A growth standard of 2.5 % means about 650 to 750 million euros per year. Mr Lachaert and Mr Rousseau's report provided for a legal growth standard which would be evaluated and determined on the basis of care needs. Furthermore, the long-term budgetary path had to be taken into account. However, that framework is less represented in the coalition agreement. Madam Secretary of State, can you clarify that? What about the growth standard? Has it been acquired from 2022 for the entire legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u17	Mr Loones, the government agreement is clear on the health budget. It effectively provides for a growth standard of 2.5 % from the year 2022. However, the government agreement explicitly states that this growth standard will not be applied uniformly in all sectors. After all, the government agreement states, I quote: 'The legal growth standard will not only fund the volume effect in demand, but must also enable new care initiatives to help achieve the intended health care objectives and reduce patient billing. This means that the growth standard is no longer distributed from the outset and allocated to the various partial objectives, but that, after medical social consultation, specific choices are made around this, for example the extension of the insured package, improving accessibility, strengthening the first line, improving quality, introducing innovation at the service of the patient or still allowing change management and promoting integrated care. In practice, therefore, a higher partial objective will be assigned to certain sectors by the government, taking into account the real needs and evolutions, as shown, inter alia, by the technical estimates of the RIZIV. For other sectors, such as medicines, hospitals, mental health care, etc., a stable multi-annual budgetary path will be agreed."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u18	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I have compared some of the texts and put the questions to the Minister for Finance. It concerns the comparison between the text of Mr Lachaert and Mr Rousseau and the final coalition agreement. A passage in it dealt with the current low interest rate environment and expectations in that area. I have received the answer from the Minister for Finance that some margins have been built in and that, of course, we will take account of this. Especially the second part interests me. Last week, the news came that in absolute terms, public debt has never been this high, i.e. more than EUR 524 billion. We all know what is already coming to us and what will unfortunately bring the future, with the Brexit and the Corona crisis. The government debt is exploding. Studies are being carried out. From when does such a debt become unsustainable, from what percentage? It's got to worry us. We agree on that. Eventually, those debts will have to be paid off. Will that happen with confiscations, new valuations or indexations? Eventually, there'll be an invoice. The text of Mr Lachaert and Mr Rousseau stated that the sale of non-strategic assets and public participations would also be considered. The government doesn't have to do everything. It could outsource, privatise or liberalise a number of non-core issues. That was stated in Mr Lachaert's text, but it is no longer explicitly stated in the coalition agreement. Do you have any more information about that? Why doesn't it say anything else? What is your personal opinion on that? Should there be exercises in that area? This must, of course, be done within certain parameters. One should not sell to sell. It is deliberately about non-strategic public participations. This is, of course, also done at a time when market conditions are correct. Is it also your belief that we should consider these matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u19	Madam President, Mr Loones, on these figures. The government is based on the reports of the Monitoring Committee. The report of 17 July was based on an increase in long-term interest burden. For example, an interest level of 0.07 % in 2020 was assumed for a ten-year period, which would then rise to 0.26 % in 2021 and 1.01 % in 2024. In the Monitoring Committee report of 6 October, those interest levels for 2020 and 2021 were estimated to be significantly lower, respectively, at a negative interest rate of 0.07 % and 0.01 %, still for a 10-year period. An increase in that interest level was indeed taken into account. As far as your second question is concerned, the government agreement does not mention anything about the sale of assets by the federal government, but provides for a regrouping of all shares in the balance sheet of the Federal Participation and Investment Company. You asked for my personal opinion. I can tell you that during the corona crisis I sold the swing of my children aged 14 and 16 because it was no longer used. We will look closely at this with all our colleagues. I do not want to take a preliminary look at this, but I think the question that needs to be looked at is right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u20	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, it is good to hear that the swing has been sold. Did the kids get something for it instead that costs more? Because that is, of course, the government's underlying question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u21	They went to work at the bakery because they have to pay for it themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u22	That reassures me. Take care of the pennies, because that will be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u23	Firstly, the European rules require Member States to be able to make adjustments to their budgetary plans until one month after the deadline of 15 October. Belgium asked and also received two weeks' delay to submit the budget to the European Commission. On Friday 30 October, the European Commissioner for Economy, Paolo Gentiloni, expects Belgium's finished budget on his desk. So my first question is: will the Belgian budget be there by Friday 30 October? Secondly, at the July European Summit, the Heads of State or Government reached agreement on the European Recovery Plan of EUR 750 billion. To subscribe to the Recovery Fund, the Commission expects draft plans from the Member States. Member States should submit their plans by 30 April 2021, but are encouraged to present their draft as from 15 October. My question is therefore: when is the government planning to submit the recovery plans to Europe? Will this country exhaust the term, as we used to be from previous governments, until 30 April? Or is it your ambition to submit those plans earlier? Thirdly, the Länder must, of course, be involved in the budgetary exercise and in the recovery plans. With regard to the delay until 30 October, the Prime Minister's cabinet indicated that this delay should allow all Länder to complete the preparation of their own budget plans. What about that? How is the consultation with the Member States going? I understood from your earlier reply that there has not been any consultation. Is that right? On Friday you will have to submit the budgetary plans, but you simply forwarded the figures from the Länder without a word. Did I get that correctly? To what extent has the Länder been consulted on the budget, but also on the recovery plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u24	Madam President, I agree with Mr Vermeersch's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u25	As I announced in committee on 13 October, a preliminary draft budget was submitted to the European Commission on 15 October. A final plan for the implementation of the measures provided for in the coalition agreement will be submitted by the end of this week. No date for submission of the recovery plan has yet been set. As you yourself say, this must be discussed with the Communities and the Regions. The Prime Minister and the State Secretary for Relance will coordinate both the Federal Recovery Plan and the consultations with the Communities and the Regions. I therefore refer to them for more precise questions. I do know that the first steps have already been taken in the sense that the commitment is there to make this move quickly. In the context of the preparation of the budgetary plan, information is requested from the Communities and the Regions. However, no consultations have yet taken place. Talks have already taken place to obtain the necessary information. However, in preparation for the next stability programme and on the basis of the procedure provided for in the cooperation agreement of 13 December 2013, it is intended to invest in such consultations. So that's also on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u26	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to add that there is a kind of nihilism within this government regarding the draft budget for Europe. Government circles repeatedly state that there is no longer any deviation from the contours of the coalition agreement. The economic context is changing completely. The draft budget is in fact obsolete before it is presented. Over the last two years, the government has not been able to take structural measures to get our public finances back on track. That's what Mr Leysen said. The Croo government has the task of getting this country back on that track, as far as possible. Let's be honest about that, too. This government denies reality every day and continues on the basis of outdated figures. However, in times of war, as you yourself often describe, Madam Secretary of State, we need a powerful government capable of responding flexibly to the rapidly changing circumstances. This government, however, seems to be acting as if there were no problems in the budget. As regards the recovery fund, I would like to warn you in particular. Of all Europeans, Flemings pay the most to the European Union. Flemish people are today the largest net contributors to the European Union. The European Restoration Fund of EUR 750 billion will make a major contribution to this. That is unacceptable. I can therefore only endorse the plea to net advantage to the Flemings in this design planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u27	Madam Secretary of State, I read in the newspaper this morning that you and your cabinet are expecting a lot from the introduction of spending reviews, a budgetary technique that is widely used in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom to monitor and adjust expenditure where necessary. The Flemish Government is also working on this. Flemish Minister for Budget Matthias Diependaele recently communicated a number of clear ambitions on this issue. It does seem to us to be the trend we should follow. We need to monitor these expenditures and see if the funds are all being used equally usefully. We will certainly give you our full support in this regard. I should like to highlight one specific point in this regard today, namely subsidies. Every government does offer a few grants. At the Flemish level, the Minister tries to map them all: who gets money from which government administration, for what purpose? In this way, the overall overview can be obtained and it can be verified whether these subsidies are effective and will lead to results. It is also possible to check whether certain objectives have not been subsidised twice. Madam Secretary of State, are you prepared to develop a similar mechanism at federal level? Are you prepared to identify all the grants that are being awarded and with what objective? Then you can also check whether there are double subsidies and ensure that public funds are spent as transparently and efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u28	Madam President, all the proposals that could lead to greater transparency and efficiency certainly deserve to be examined. As a result of your question, I asked the administration to make a kind of preliminary study with an overview of the expenditure on grants, the major headings as well as the technical possibilities and difficulties of creating a database based on the Flemish model. So I am certainly open to this, but I would prefer to wait for this information to make a commitment in terms of implementation and timing. So I can't promise anything about it right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u29	Excellent. Do you have a rough idea when the administration will give you a first general note so I don't bother you with this every few weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u30	That is difficult to say now, because so much work and time is now getting into the budget. However, if we do not bring it here in good time, you can ask us another question on this, so that we are reminded of it. However, we will take it with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u31	Thank you, I will do so with great pleasure and enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u32	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, my question is in line with what was said on 14 October 2020 following the discussion of the draft law opening provisional appropriations for the months November and December 2020. One of the questions raised at the time was that we suddenly saw EUR 300 million pop up for SNCB. At that time, you replied in good faith and said that this sum would go mainly to hygiene measures, such as cleaning the carriages. You added, for the sake of fairness, that you were not 100% sure of this and that you would check it out. That is why I have the following question. In the meantime, do you have a better idea of the details for which these EUR 300 million, which is not very little, are actually earmarked? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u33	Madam President, Mr Van der Donkt, thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to correct this from the committee meeting mentioned. We've requested the information. In the end, the government decided to release € 264 million for SNCB by 2020 and € 46.9 million for Infrabel. That together makes 310.9 million euros. This money is largely intended to compensate for the loss caused by the COOVID-19 crisis. So it's an allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u34	Madam Secretary of State, that seems to me to be a somewhat more logical explanation than money for soaps, for which I thank you. I'll take your answer with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u35	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, because of the coronavirus, the hospitality sector has unfortunately had to close, following a decision of the Consultation Committee on Friday 16 October. The sector must hold its doors for at least four weeks. The Flemish Government has immediately come up with a support package with a number of measures which can be signed up. In the meantime, we have learned that the federal government is also planning measures. In the first communication, a package of EUR 500 million was discussed. Yesterday, I saw a communication passing by Minister Clarinval, who suddenly talked about EUR 150 million. Madam Secretary of State, what exactly is the point? What budget envelope has been provided for and what measures can these money be used for? The corona virus is still raging in this country. Do you have any idea what rough amount this government is prepared to go to, at least in the coming year, to develop support measures for the catering industry and for other sectors, when, as I fear, this would prove necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u36	Madam President, Mr Loones, it is indeed a pity that the catering industry is now closed, especially for all the independent entrepreneurs who had already made a great deal of effort to make their case coronaproof, but it was really necessary, given the health situation in our country. Following the decision in the Consultation Committee, a series of measures were indeed taken to support the catering sector. More specifically, it concerns three measures with a total estimated budgetary impact of around EUR 500 million. Firstly, there is the amount of the right of bridging for self-employed persons who have to stop their activity because of the sanitary measures decided by the government. It will be doubled for the months of October and November. The transitional right for these two months is EUR 2,583 for a single person and EUR 3,528 for a self-employed person with a family burden. The overall budgetary impact of this measure is estimated at EUR 179 million. A second measure is to grant a subsidy to a sectoral fund for the catering industry to ensure payment of the end-of-year premiums for all employees in the sector. This proposal aims at paying the full end-of-year premium to all workers in the catering sector, who have been temporarily unemployed for some months now and are thus suffering a significant loss of income, inter alia because they are no longer getting tips and overtime. The aim is also to relieve the burden on employers in this sector, which has been severely affected by government containment measures to ensure the health of fellow citizens. This is a total grant of EUR 167 million. A third measure provides for an exemption in the form of a premium equal to the basic patronial contribution reduced by the RSZ reductions and plus the solidarity contribution payable by the employer for student labour. Employers active in the hospitality and event sector in the third quarter of 2020 shall be eligible for this aid measure. The budgetary impact of this third measure is estimated at EUR 152 million. You also ask how much government wants to continue to support the catering industry. I believe that these measures make it clear that we are doing everything we can to support this sector and others. The current measures are currently in force until 19 November and if they are renewed, which will hopefully not be necessary, the government will do everything it can to continue supporting the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, it is good to hear that you too have a heart for the catering industry. Many of us have worked as a student in the catering industry, I certainly have. Maybe that's what your kids are doing to buy the new swing of the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u38	They're a little too young to work in a café, 14 and 16.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u39	That's right, they're still babysitters. It's nice that you have a heart for the catering industry because that will be necessary. Thank you for the measures, it is good that this is clarified so that people in the sector know what they can sign up for. The best aid measure is, of course, that these people can open up again, but we will all have to ensure this together by keeping the security measures such as distance and following hand washing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u40	Mr. Van Hees requested to defer its questions Nos. 55010259C, 55010260C, 55010261C and 55010262C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u41	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, these are fascinating times. We've heard a lot of interesting things. Over the last few weeks, we have had some important discussions on defence. Other speakers have just referred to the debate in the European Parliament, where, among other things, the former pre-former, Egbert Lachaert, talked about a substantial investment in Defence. He said that there were finally prospects for the security sector and that a lot of investment would happen. I asked him what exactly was in it for the DOD, because it's good that there's going to be investments, but how much money is it? At the time, he was somewhat unsure about this, but it was worse that it was said that there was no perspective and clarity in terms of staffing and operating costs. In the last month we also had an exchange of views with the new Secretary of Defense, Ludivine Dedonder. She, too, left it in the middle and said that the budget talks would show what was going to come out of the bus for Defence. So we actually had to wait and see. At the same time, we have also heard that the question was asked to do additional efficiency exercises. There was, for example, a newspaper article today that says that you, Madam Secretary of State, are asking for additional efficiency exercises in the security departments. I was stunned when I read that, among other things, Defence would be asked to make 0.89% of additional savings. That raises a lot of questions. We read in the newspaper that it is said in the Defense Department that this is feasible, but then we consult other sources. Defense is on its gums in terms of operation and operation. Everyone actually agrees, across party boundaries, that additional efforts need to be made to do something about staffing and exploitation, because the previous government has mainly invested in capacity. It is now necessary to link the human resources and operation component to this. If it turns out that we would remain hungry in this area or, worse, that additional savings would have to be made, there would be a lot of questions. Madam Secretary of State, what is the government's overall budgetary effort for Defence in 2021? How much is foreseen for the basic envelope, how much for investments under the strategic vision and how much for complementary investments? Can you indicate what the government provides for in general terms for staffing, operating and investment appropriations? How much does the government provide for this legislature for the announced recapitalisation of defence personnel policy? Defense will be part of the global savings exercise. Where, within what posts for Defense, do you see any additional cutting possibilities? Will that happen on staff expenditure? Will investments be reduced if necessary? Is that 0.89 % calculated on the 2020 budgets or on the budgets foreseen for 2021 in the strategic vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u42	Thank you, Mr Buysrogge, for your question. According to the notifications of the Council of Ministers of 23 October, point 6, in 2021, it concerns a linear saving of 0.89% on staff and operational expenditure. Savings on investments are excluded. The savings will be in 22 million euros. You know that no effort has been required in the last two years. People were in ongoing business. No new investments or savings could therefore be made either. It is therefore about a total saving of 22 million euros in 2021. Since the strategic vision of Defense is about investments in main equipment that are exempt from linear savings. The savings shall be calculated on the budgets foreseen in 2021. The government's budgetary effort for Defence in 2021 is an effort of EUR 3,748 billion, section 16, without the cabinet appropriations. It concerns the internal defence effort. There is also an external defence effort, largely for pensions, which will amount to EUR 1.6 billion in 2021. The overall defence effort, both internally and externally, will therefore amount to EUR 5.37 billion, Section 16, without government appropriations. Within the internal defence effort, the basic envelope in 2021 amounts to EUR 2.74 billion. The available appropriations for the strategic vision amount to EUR 949 million in 2021. The complementary investments proposed by the Ministry of Defence were not approved in the preparation of the initial budget 2021 and the multiannual forecast 2022-2024, as these were new initiatives. However, according to the circular of 11 April 2020 on the third instalment of the 2020 provisional appropriations, the ex ante picture of the initial budget 2021 and the multiannual estimate 2022-2024 were not possible. This involved the most urgent investments for 2022 to 2024, around EUR 2.5 billion. Defence also announced that large volumes of investment are still planned from 2025. With regard to the possible recapitalisation of personnel policy and possible margins for savings, as Secretary of State for the Budget, I refer to the Minister of Defence, who will set priorities here and take the decisions on that basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u43	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer and for the figures we are getting for the first time. It is not that the figures reassure me, but at least we have already received figures. Madam Secretary of State, in the previous legislature, a perspective was finally given to Defence. This was initially done by Minister Vandeput and later by Mr Loones, here present, Mr Reynders and Mr Goffin. A strategic plan was developed in which a lot of capacity was invested. An investment programme of EUR 9 billion was planned to carry out many important purchases in the pipeline. Finally, a perspective was offered. Over the last few months, we have worked very hard together in the Defence Committee, there was no majority and opposition at the time, but over the party boundaries, a resolution of which the PS was the main contributor. Everyone was convinced that the next issue would be defence personnel and exploitation. A resolution was adopted that was supported by Chambers to focus specifically on that HR policy. So very strong work has been done. I also read that in the texts of the coalition agreement. So everything was very good in terms of words. However, when people hear that the budgets are not going to follow up on this, I am disappointed. In addition, I have to hear that a further saving of EUR 22 million is being requested from the Defence Department. That makes me sad. This is because it ignores the fact that a great deal of effort has been demanded from the defence sector. The military did an excellent job after the attacks. In this health crisis, they are being called upon to make further efforts. Defense always stands by. Once again, however, Defense is faced with savings. That makes me sad. Madam Secretary of State, I do not blame you, but it is a reproach that I want to address the entire government. You are now adding that the Secretary of Defense must make her priorities clear. That's a finger change, I'll just interpret it. We must continue to do so. We can't make peace with this. The fact that Defense needs to save again is a bridge too far for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u44	Madam Secretary of State, I questioned the Prime Minister in plenary a few weeks ago about the cost of the government and the Cabinets. I then received a very confusing and evasive answer. When I look at the decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 16 October, I understand better why that answer was so evasive at the time, but some things are not clear to me. I would have liked some clarification. On 16 October, on your proposal, an additional budget of EUR 17 million was foreseen from the interdepartmental commissions for the last two months of the year for the benefit of all these Cabinets. The provisional appropriations were already provided for in EUR 8.5 million for those last two months. A further EUR 17 million will now be added. That is half of what the Michel administration spent on a whole year. That's a huge amount of money. I would have liked to know what this EUR 17 million will be used for. What will the EUR 8.5 million be used for? Will both amounts still be used? Are there any discharge fees in there? Even if we take that into account, it remains very large amounts for me. I would have liked to have some explanation. What is this EUR 17 million for? Is that for the Croo I government? What is the 8.5 million euro for? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u45	Mr Donné, as you said, the Council of Ministers of 16 October agreed to a budget debate of EUR 17 million in order to provide the new government's cabinets with the necessary resources, from the start-up to the end of 2020. In the fourth instalment of provisional appropriations appropriations are still reserved for the offices of the Wilmès II government. These credits will be used to pay incoming invoices from the outgoing government and for employee redundancy payments. So it is certainly not intended that these appropriations should be charged for expenditure of a new nature. No expenditure by members of the government of the Croo Government can be charged on these appropriations. The appropriations of the previous and current governments are located in different organisational departments and are therefore strictly separate. The method used is common in the start-up of a new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic289x.u46	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I had also understood that the 8.5 million would not be used for the De Croo government, but that means that the de Croo government needs EUR 17 million in two or three months for its government. This is still a very large increase compared to the Michael I administration. Now I fully understand why Prime Minister De Croo has not been able to give his word on the very reasonable commitment we proposed not to exceed the cost of the Michael I government. His government is simply a lot more expensive than the then Michel government, and that in these times of crisis. It's been noted.
