ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u3	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u4	The second rapporteur, Mr Piedboeuf, also referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u5	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will abstain in the vote on this draft law for the same reason as we indicated in committee. It is indeed about the transposition of the Fifth Money Laundering Directive. We have, however, made the point again that the design of art dealers and art galleries is a very sudden and rapid adaptation. This legislation does not allow them to adapt effectively to the new directives. For football we follow the same reasoning. The draft law now establishes its entry into force in July 2021. Nevertheless, we have made it clear that once there is a European approach, an adjustment will have to be made again. Our group is in favour of more structural work and a structural solution, which was also the opinion of the Pro League. After all, it had delivered a negative opinion on the draft. Our group will abstain. Of course, we are in favour of measures to be taken in the context of money laundering and terrorist financing. However, we believe that the interested parties for whom the scheme is new should be given time to adapt to the new legislation. After all, it is not because something has been mentioned for a year, that it must also be immediately applicable. Many of the legislative proposals and draft laws discussed here could be applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thieves love darkness. If thieves want to break in, they'll usually wait for the darkness to fall before entering a home. The same applies to criminals who want to finance money laundering or terrorism. They also use some kind of darkness. That darkness is called anonymity in the financial sector. Criminals use anonymous ways to launder money or finance terrorism. The current transposition of the Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive combats this anonymity. This conversion provides for a number of tightenings: the registry of the final beneficiaries, the so-called UBO registry; monitoring of virtual currencies, such as bitcoins; lowering the limit of anonymous prepaid payment cards and exchanging information with high-risk third countries. Anonymity in the financial sector will be less and less in our country thanks to this transformation. That is a good thing. It was absolutely necessary to amend the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. After the adoption of this directive, the terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo's offices took place in Paris. After that, a whole series of Islamic attacks followed, including in our country. We will discuss the future of the airport in the next section. On 22 March 2016, the terrible attack took place there. We must not forget that. And then there was the unveiling of the Panama Papers. In addition to legal tax avoidance, there was also tax fraud and illegal activities, such as circumventing trade sanctions or dealing with bribery, including by prominent persons. The European Commission therefore called for the accelerated revision of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive as a response to the islam terror on European soil and the financial trade and walk revealed by the Panama Papers. Every year our society misses billions because terrorists and criminals spend money illegally or unclearly. The Islamic attacks within and outside the European Union make it clear once again that our country, as well as the other European Member States, must make every effort to prevent and combat terrorism in all policy areas. Islamic organisations and individual Muslim terrorists need money to maintain their networks, recruit, supply and commit the ultimate acts of terrorism. A strong contribution can therefore be made to the fight against Islam terror by cutting off access to sources of funding and making it difficult to use the funds involved unnoticed. We of Flemish Interest are opposed to this kind of extortion, such as money laundering and terrorist financing. This significantly improves the fourth anti-money laundering directive. We will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u7	Mr President, this draft is indeed the transposition of the fifth directive, and we are going a little further than the fourth directive, which has now been transposed into the anti-money laundering law as we know it. A number of additional entities are subject, including persons providing advice on taxes, as well as art dealers. Over the last two years, discussions have been held on how this can enter into force for them. By transposing the fifth directive, we are ensuring that both vigilance and the proper exchange of information on money laundering and the fight against terrorism are activated. I'd like to highlight one more element. This is an element introduced by an amendment with Mr Vandenbroucke, Mr Vanbesien and Mr Gilkinet. It's about the football brokers and the football clubs. This was originally not provided for in the Fifth Directive, but there is a possibility of adding additional entities. We have chosen to introduce the football clubs from 1A and 1B, but also the football brokers as obliged persons. We have done so in good and close consultation with the FPS Economy, which becomes the supervisory authority, but we have also set a long adjustment period. We have given time until July next year, and possibly another six months, so that the football clubs have the opportunity to work out a workable system together with the FPS Economy. That system should clarify when to report if certain acts are suspected. Then we do not talk at all about every act in a football club, but about the big sponsor deals and transfer amounts. The result is that the football clubs can and will eventually be fit and clean. The Pro League will also welcome this, because at the moment there are sometimes problems with certain clubs from 1A and B, where the licensing committee makes decisions because it is run by football brokers, after which the BAS destroys those decisions. Also important is that suspicious transactions in that world will have to be reported. We believe that this amendment and its inclusion in this transposition are very reasonable, because we have opted for the transitional arrangements and for proper and close consultation with the actors in the field. It is also necessary, because it is clear that, as reported by Europe last year, football clubs and real estate agents are in the danger zone and are susceptible to money that can be laundered or possibly used for terrorism. The start came from the football world itself after the report of the experts of the Pro League, who themselves suggested that it would be beneficial and good that the clubs were subject to the rules of the anti-money laundering law. That fact, the support of the Pro League, as well as a number of scandals in the football world, but also the support of the population, which, together with the moment when the fifth directive was transposed, gave us two options. Either we could decide to put our heads in the sand and turn our backs on the problems of football brokers and football clubs on money laundering and wait for action to be taken elsewhere. In other words, and we have done so, we took action and put the provisions of football clubs and football brokers into the transposed directive. In this way we are a bit forerunner, but with respect for the football clubs and the people who are active in them. After all, there will be one to one and a half years to work out a system together with the FPS Economy in which the football clubs are at the wheel. I would therefore like to end with an appeal to the football clubs and the Pro League to see this as an opportunity to be a precursor and to work out, together with the FPS Economy, a system to which the other clubs and leagues in Europe can later take an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u8	Mr President, our group will approve this bill, also because we have had the opportunity to make an important addition. I would like to thank Mr Matheï, Mr Vanbesien and Mr Gilkinet for their support for my amendment to extend preventive anti-money laundering legislation to professional football and football brokers. Colleagues, it is already from October 2018 that the federal prosecutor has started the Operation Clean Hands. With 200 detectives, 56 researches were started in Belgian football. According to the federal court, this happened partly because of the fact that money laundering structures exist in Belgian football, which was confirmed by the investigation. In December 2019, the general meeting of the Pro League sent out a press release stating that it unanimously gave the management power of attorney to ensure far-reaching transparency measures. The general meeting of the Pro League also stated very explicitly that the possibility of falling under the scope of preventive anti-money laundering legislation was one of the options to ensure the necessary transparency. In all honesty, I do not understand that the N-VA colleagues are using the so-called advice of the Pro League to make reservations about the passage that we have added to the draft law. This passage has been further developed in good cooperation with the cabinet of Minister Muylle and the FPS Economy, the future supervisor. The N-VA is hiding behind the so-called advice of the Pro League, which contained two arguments that made me fall fairly off my chair in the light of the press release that was once sent out. The first argument was not to move too fast. A study had to be carried out on the position of Belgian football in comparison with professional football in other competing countries. As if the application of preventive legislation designed to protect football against abuse by money laundering could be a competitive disadvantage. I find that incomprehensible. A second argument from the so-called opinion was that if the professional football were to be placed under preventive anti-money laundering legislation and there would be no mention of other sports, this would be discrimination. Colleagues, the federal parquet did not launch an investigation into the swimming or basketball clubs of this country in October 2018. It is indeed in the professional football that all the judicial investigations are going on. It is indeed the professional football explicitly mentioned by the European Commission as a sector vulnerable to money laundering. So I do not understand why, seven months after a press release, the Pro-League proposes this option, almost two years after the start of a judicial investigation, is issuing an opinion in which they want to wait. There is therefore another group here that supports this and refers to possible European initiatives that we have no guarantee that will come. I am a little less friendly than Mr Matheï, but I think this addition to the draft law is absolutely necessary. We do that in a very reasonable way. We are indeed using a one-year period, renewable with an extra six months, to work it all out. For football brokers, there is no time limit, because we are aware of the need for a cooperation agreement with the communities. But I do not understand that there are any doubts today about the need to protect professional football from abuse. We're not taking anything. We are using legislation that has already proved its worth in other sectors. Then there is the question of whether this is necessary. I honestly don't understand. I'm very worried, colleagues. I am going a little further than the scope of this bill. I am very concerned about another dossier on which we have been working for several months with Mr Matheï and Mr Vanbesien, among others. It concerns the situation of the parafiscal favor regime enjoyed by the Belgian professional football system, amounting to EUR 150 million per year. I still believed and hope that we will work constructively with a number of political groups on this issue, in order to respond to the social call for that mechanism and regime to be adapted and made more equitable. Mrs Depoorter, I really hope that your group, which is also part of that working group, will not be sitting there as the ventriloquist of the Pro League, in order to slow things down. After all, I am concerned by your speech. You may have reservations about the technical development of amendments, for example. However, by expressing your support for the Pro League's advice, which actually states that it is going to stick its head in the sand, I am concerned. Mrs Depoorter, I hope you will be able to reassure us this evening, by indicating that the N-VA is still willing to work constructively together, to adapt the tax and parafiscal favor regime for professional football.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u9	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u10	Mr Vandenbroucke, Mrs Depoorter wishes to interrupt you for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u11	Mr Vandenbroucke, your speech is touching. Your concern is really touching, knowing that we are part of the working group and knowing that we asked you during the committee to withdraw the amendment so that it could be examined thoroughly, structural measures could be taken and minimum wages could be scaled up. That is not what you are referring to. You have scaled up the miracle cure in this bill. Now you will solve all the problems. Mr Vandenbroucke, please let us be serious. Let us do the work in the working group and do not let us do symbolic politics here. In that case, we shall move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u12	Mrs Depoorter, the amendment has been effectively withdrawn. We have worked on the amendment with the Muylle cabinet and the FPS Economy for two weeks. You may not know, but I'll give you the following information. In any case, you do not have to derogatoryly express yourself to me on the subject of pitifulness and that is more so. You may not know, but I would like to mention in your information that the information on anti-money laundering legislation has been taken out of the work of the working party. It is separated from all other files on minimum wages, taxation and parafiscality. I hope that the N-VA will cooperate constructively on this. However, this is not likely to be seen as symbolic policy in the light of the facts that emerged from Operation Clean Hands, in the light of what is stated in reports from the European Commission and in the light of what the Pro League itself stated in December 2019 are willing to do. The result is, quite frankly, that I am even more concerned about your group's attitude to the sports sector in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u13	Mr Vandenbroucke, you are talking about denigrating, but I suggest that you pay attention to your words in that case. Of course I'm aware, but I'm sticking to my point of view. You have cited cases in which you indicate that the whole problem would have been resolved. The clearing house may be efficient for all intermediaries who work here, but that doesn't get you any further. You will have to adapt the scheme when there is a European approach. The introduction of your measure will most likely not be 1 July 2021, but a year later, to which you yourself referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard in the debate, a rather important amendment was adopted, on which there is some discussion. It will be for the FPS Economy and the CFI to find out how they are preparing to put things into practice. I would like to mention some important elements. Our country was in default before the European Court of Justice because of an incomplete transposition of the fourth anti-money laundering directive. It was clearly stated that, when this text is adopted, the notice of formal notice lapses, which is a good thing. I am satisfied with the way in which we are debating in committee meetings. The broad support for a European directive on the basis of the merits of that European directive is certainly a good thing. The fifth Directive aims to improve the European Union's ability to combat the financing of terrorism and to ensure greater transparency about, among other things, financial transactions, companies, legal entities and trusts. The purpose of the Directive is not only to investigate and investigate money laundering, but also to prevent money laundering. More transparency would also have an important deterrent effect. I believe that with the transposition of this directive, we are taking an important step forward in order to better combat terrorist financing and money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u15	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u16	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1324/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1324/9) The bill has 173 articles. The draft law has 173 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u17	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u18	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Theo Francken, Bert Wollants, Jan Spooren, Darya Safai, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Katrien Houtmeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u19	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1355/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1355/5) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the future of the Brussels-National airport". The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the future of Brussels National Airport." The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr. Van Hees, refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am replacing Theo Francken so that he can carry out his duties in the Committee on the Interior. Of course, at the N-VA we have a solid airport team ready to fill in lost flights without problems. Today, on 15 July 2020, Brussels Airlines announced that the airline's plans should be reviewed for the rest of the summer. The company wanted to be able to deploy more aircraft on long-distance flights and on the European network from the beginning of August, but the financial situation at the moment does not allow this, because no agreement has been reached with the Belgian government on the financial support that the airline absolutely needs to survive the corona crisis. Meanwhile, negotiations between Lufthansa, the parent company of Brussels Airlines, and the federal government on the aid package continue to be tough. More than three months ago, Brussels Airlines asked 290 million euros in a loan to the federal government. Today we are not yet a step further. There's still no match. As a result, the federal government hypothesized the whole recovery of the country's second largest economic engine, Zaventem Airport. Belgium is the only country where Lufthansa has not yet reached an agreement with the government. At the end of April there was already an agreement with the Swiss government for a sum of EUR 1.2 billion. At the end of May Lufthansa in Germany concluded an agreement with Chancellor Merkel's government on a package worth EUR 9 billion. An agreement was also reached with Austrian Airlines at the beginning of June. This company receives €450 million of support from the Austrian Government. This means that the clock continues to tick for Brussels Airlines and for the country's largest airport. The resolution calls for various actions to be taken by the government, including the conclusion of an agreement with Lufthansa as soon as possible to ensure the future of Brussels Airlines as an international home carrier and member of the Star Alliance Group in Zaventem. The proposed support package should be temporary and conditional with firm guarantees for jobs and a forward-looking sustainability policy. We have formulated the motion for a resolution in such a way that we could find a consensus with the various groups. We have also taken into account various comments made by colleagues and several amendments to and additions to the proposal have also been adopted in committee. We also support the sensitivity of green colleagues to sustainability and energy. The same applies to the Christian Democratic Group. We also supported sp.a's comments on the protection and economic strengthening of baggage dealers. We have even supported the PS amendment concerning the name of the airport. We have all done this for a simple reason: we want to ensure that the 66,000 people working for the airport have another job tomorrow, that they can keep that job and that the airport can grow. We must not abandon these workers. That is also why Parliament must send out a strong signal and adopt the motion for a resolution. The present proposal for a resolution ensures that the government puts Zaventem airport at the top of the political agenda. I confirm that people are worried. We have also received several signals about this in the committee from people who have testified to it. The financial situation of Brussels Airlines has deteriorated considerably and is now becoming really precarious. Both Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa had set 10 July as a deadline for an agreement with the Belgian authorities, but that deadline was therefore not met. That agreement must no longer fail, so it is important that we find broad support for the motion for a resolution, which can then be put to work. Together with Mr Francken, I count on the support of all of you to bring this story to a successful conclusion tomorrow, namely an approved resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the airport of Zaventem is indeed an important economic engine for our country, especially for Flemish Brabant and Brussels. That is, of course, about more than Brussels Airlines alone. The resolution concerns the airport. The story of Mr Wollants was mainly about Brussels Airlines. However, we must look at the airport and at the extension to air transport. Firstly, we cannot ignore the fact that the aviation sector has been struggling with a number of problems for some time. There has been a huge increase in the number of flights over the past decades, which are being sold to the cheapest. This increase is becoming increasingly critical. There is unfair competition against other modes of transport because of tax advantages, which are increasingly difficult to defend against the population. Secondly, the world is moving towards a low carbon and ultimately carbon-free society. All sectors in our society are making huge efforts to this end. Aviation remains on the sidelines for the time being. The sector has not entered into the Paris Agreement. There is increasing criticism of this too. There's also something wrong with the business model. The companies mentioned in the resolution, Brussels Airlines, Swissport and Aviapartner, are all companies that make structural losses year after year. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the aviation sector will have to deal with reforms and changes in any way and that the sector will have to reinvent itself into an aviation 2.0. It is our view that we should use today's crisis to implement this reform. In our view, it is not wise to invest a lot of money now, to bring the sector back to where it was pre-corona, and then shortly afterwards to find that things have to be different. The current crisis is the opportunity to accelerate the transition. We want to seize that opportunity. Mr Francken has said, and Mr Wollants has just said, that the resolution has been kept somewhat vague so that ideological or other contradictions do not lead us to end up empty-handed. I disagree. If today we are asking whether we are going to invest hundreds of millions in aviation, then today we must also think about its future, in terms of employment, climate and the quality of life of those living around us. Some of our amendments were accepted in committee, as Mr Wollants said. There are two more important amendments, which I would like to repeat again today in order to make the resolution more complete and better. The first amendment adds the request to the government to take the initiative at European level to create a clear legal framework to make the aviation sector climate neutral by 2050. The instruments that can play a role in this are the removal of state aid for loss-making airports that are not linked to clear climate objectives................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Aviation is exempt from VAT, which is levied on almost every other good and service throughout the European Union. That is a gift of nearly EUR 17 billion. Motorists pay an average of 48 eurocents of excise duty per litre of fuel in Europe, and airlines do not pay it. That's another 32 billion euros present. So these three things together can already raise EUR 52 billion a year in Europe. It is also important to include the aviation sector in the national contribution of the Paris Climate Agreement and to reform the rules on aviation in European emissions trading. The resources available may contribute, inter alia, to research into climate-neutral, synthetic aircraft fuel and to the development of international train connections. The second amendment concerns the adaptation of the silent night, a 22-hour to 7 hours adjustment, and the need to work at European level on a plan to phase out night flights. The amendment responds to the aspirations of the people living around and it should improve the quality of life of the area around the airport. Ladies and gentlemen, these two amendments make the resolution more complete, better and firm. I hope that we will be able to get your support in the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution on Zaventem airport does not come too early for the Flemish interest. In this resolution we find a fourfold objective, at least in the initial motion for a resolution. This is a future for Brussels Airlines, a sound solution for baggage handling, the companies operating at the airport and finally a future plan for Zaventem, taking into account a balance between economic viability, the environment and the residents. As far as we are concerned, the resolution is clear. We have therefore supported them from the outset. We thank the author in particular, because it is our job as a Parliament to send a strong signal to the outside world by means of such resolutions. This means first of all that we are taking the 66,000 jobs that are in Zaventem seriously and secondly that Parliament must ensure that the future of Zaventem is preserved. However, allow me to express my disappointment. When I think back to the committee meetings that we had on this subject, I think that the left has benefited from this whole story. It involved Europe, it started on CO2 emissions, the Paris Agreements and the climate objectives. As a democrat, I have no problem with that. If a majority can be found in favour of a number of amendments which add them to the resolution, then so be it, but I note that the whole debate, the four key objectives I have just mentioned, has been snowed under by the left-wing truffles. What I found particularly striking was the PS amendment to replace Zaventem with Brussels national. I understand that the hatred of Zaventem airport is particularly severe for some people and that they would, of course, like to draw attention to their airport in Charleroi. Nevertheless, despite the adoption of amendments on climate and environmental objectives tabled by the left, we note that many of these parties abstained at the end of the journey, even though they were in fact able to incorporate their objectives. Of course, this does not include the sp.a, which has approved it. At least they have been consistent. The rest of us have only tried to amend the resolution to the point where we are ultimately abstaining. I think that's hypocritical. What do they want? Who is opposed to employment? Who's against those 66,000 jobs on Zaventem? Who is not in favour of a solution with Brussels Airlines? Who is not for those companies that operate there and that should be able to grow again in the coming years? Today, the Greens have again tabled an amendment on global warming. Then I'll ask myself questions. We are talking about VAT on airline tickets, excise duties, fuels, what is next? The introduction of a flatulence tax? I find that all very far-reaching. I'd say Le Nouveau Agalev est arrivé. If I see how you make the whole story snow, that you want to mix that ideology into those 66,000 jobs, the Flemish interest will ensure that all of Flanders knows that you are against those 66,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u23	This is a very nice story. Mr Wollants has also told us how different groups have worked together to write a resolution for the protection of 66,000 jobs. You are complaining that others will abstain from this resolution. You don't call that consistent. You even call that a hypocrite. The next dossier here in plenary will deal with the provisional twelfths. That is why we are providing an extra budget for the coming months because we know that if we want to keep Brussels Airlines in the air, it will also cost money. The Minister for the Budget has come to ask for an authorisation to provide those funds already, so that when necessary, if a good agreement is reached, those budgets are also available for spending. Your group abstained on that question in committee. There is an opportunity on the table to provide money to save Brussels Airlines, but your group is abstaining. Then, in the gallery, you accuse most Members of Parliament of being inconsistent and hypocritical. The whole of Flanders should know that, you think, but the whole of Flanders should also know that you did not vote for a measure that provides for a budget to save Brussels Airlines. It's interesting to know if you think that's hypocritical.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u24	I am not constantly going to let the debate jump over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u25	Mr President, I would like to refer to the speaker who has the floor for a personal statement. In this way, the speaker can reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u26	Mr President, the speaker to whom Mr Loones refers is not a permanent member of the Finance Committee. I propose that the answer be given by a speaker who was present in the Finance Committee. Mr Loones, you can call in a video, but let the facts speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u27	I will close the incident and give the floor to Mr Van Lommel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u28	Mr President, Mr Loones, I would just like to touch on the issue of Brussels Airlines, which is a very special part of the resolution. I will clarify our view on this in a moment. In March Brussels Airlines already called the alarm, if I am not mistaken on 17 March, the date was just mentioned in committee. We are now four months later and we read in the press that Brussels Airlines' cash position is shrinking, that the abyss is even near. However, there is still no agreement so far. I understand the minister somewhat when he says that he has not been able to answer questions about this in the past, given the confidentiality of the negotiations that were still under way at the time. I am particularly pleased that he has given Parliament openness today. The message he gave us wasn't so positive. It was not a message of hope, because we see that the long wait, the last four months, is not rewarding. There's no agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly important for us to demand strong guarantees in case of possible support for Brussels Airlines. A social agreement was concluded with Brussels Airlines requiring workers to surrender. In the coming years it must be ensured that we do not pump money into a company that may not play the game correctly. The call for reasonableness is also very important. The Minister's statement that there was a summit meeting with Berlin seems to me to be no more than normal. However, in my opinion Lufthansa is playing a game here. That was clear earlier. If they are playing a game, then I am sorry for the workers who have to turn in, who have been living in uncertainty for 4 months and who still have no idea of a result today. It is also bad if this game is played with the companies that operate at Brussels Airport and with politics. This would be very arrogant, especially after the Belgian government sold 45% of the shares for 65 million euros in 2009 and the remaining 55% for 2.6 million euros 3 years ago, which is ultimately free. I have already said in the past that this is a thorn in our eye, the fact that they have been able to buy it for a bummer. I think a company in need should be humbled. The fact that they are now going to announce in the press that the cash position is dwindling and the abyss is near, I find it very strange when I look at the way the negotiations have been conducted. The Minister spoke of an injection of equity, but they said very clearly that they do not want that. For example, they ask for a grant, a kind of subsidy, which actually means that they want to grab twice at the expense of Belgium. That is not the right formula, especially if one knows that they were able to get their hands on the last 55% in 2017 for an apple and an egg. The government proposes a loan, possibly in the form of profit sharing certificates. That is a possibility, but for us it is particularly important throughout this story that if Brussels Airlines is supported, it should also be refundable. This aid must be temporary and, above all, we must be given firm guarantees regarding the maintenance of employment and Brussels Airlines as a home carrier so that we do not be sacked for the umpteenth time. It can't be another adventure like this. However, I wonder if Lufthansa would like to hear that there have been 24 video calls and that the government has made 6 proposals while on their part there has been communication silence for 2 months. I'm just finding that the fish is still not baking today. If such matters are identified, how urgent is it really? Does Lufthansa have a hidden agenda? Do people show willingness and commitment? I do not think it is very respectful of them if they do not keep the negotiations warm themselves, especially in view of the fact that many employees have had to turn in after the social agreement has been concluded. If everything is put together, there are four possible scenarios for Brussels Airlines. Either a deal will be reached with Lufthansa, or there will soon be bankruptcy, or Lufthansa will decide to throw Brussels Airlines on the market and look for a buyer, or the company will have to be nationalised. For the sake of stability, continuity for the company, which needs to get healthy again, and the many thousands of jobs there, a deal must indeed be made with Lufthansa, if it meets at least the conditions I have just mentioned. If we don't do something, those jobs will be permanently lost. If we give money, the question arises as to whether we will ever see it again. What guarantees will we get? If Lufthansa gives us guarantees, how will it make them worse? What does the parent company want? In the past, Brussels Airlines has been tried to become a low-cost company, such as Eurowings. In what form does Lufthansa itself see the future of Brussels Airlines? The lack of clarity is gruesome. It's been four months, to be exact. However, everyone has a right to clarity. How will the left explain that they will find the reduction of CO2 emissions, the achievement of the climate objectives and the renewal of the fleet? Do they really mean their plea for maintaining the jobs? I think that is a very bitter observation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we have always believed in the initial text of the proposal, which was clear and clear and said what it was about. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments to delete all the passages relating to the climate, which is not at all on the subject at all in the very short term today. Apart from Brussels Airlines, which is very often focused on, many other companies are active at the airport and they are also in the wind. I am thinking not only of the shops at the airport, but also of the baggage dealers. That's how Swissport had to put the books down. Aviapartner was eventually able to count on support, EUR 25 million to be precise. The company has been operating at the airport for more than 70 years, survived Sabena and has already had a whole Belgian history. I can imagine very well that, when the canvas fell on Swissport, company that could not pass the grant register, and a piece of Belgian history with Aviapartner was threatened to be lost, Alexander De Croo's heart bled. That romantic Belgicism he undoubtedly got from his father with the dolphin. In any event, there is a huge risk because Aviapartner is the only baggage dealer operating at the airport, which amounts to a monopoly. So if something happens to the company, the problems get bigger. I understand that in the meantime they are working on a duopoly with another partner for baggage handling. Ideally, three players are active at the airport, as proposed by the proposers of the resolution. The Flemish interest is also in favour of this, because there is an oligopolistic situation. We therefore want to retable the amendment for the handling of baggage - a minimum occupancy requirement. We believe it is particularly important that, especially now, all companies at the airport remain active and that the airport remains an oiled machine. We absolutely must prevent additional economic damage and protect the image of Brussels Airport. That is why, as in committee, we will support the motion for a resolution. As has been said, we have tabled a number of amendments which take us back to the original objective, namely a short-term solution for Brussels Airlines and the companies operating there, and a vision for the future for the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u30	Mr President, I was prevented from attending a committee for a moment. I would like to thank Mr Wollants very much for his speech. We do this dossier together and he has much more expertise, because he has been following it for a long time than I have, including the technicality of the file. I have to ask a question, Mr Van Lommel. You say that you have tabled amendments to go back to the original text. It is of course our text, so I will be the last not to defend it. That would be ridiculous, but I personally believe that the amendments have dealt with a number of things in greater depth. I do not think that the amendments have made fundamental changes to the resolution. For example, the adjustments are about sustainability, which needs to be given more attention. This means that, within a European framework, we are considering what we are doing with short-haul flights and with the aviation sector. That is what we meant when we talked about a balance between sustainability on the one hand and economic viability on the other. That is, of course, a very important point for us. I also refer to Mr Vandenbroucke's amendments. One of his amendments says that we want to take care of the redundant Swissport workers, who are now at home. We want an employment pool for them, and this must be tackled as a matter of priority. I think so, too. Mrs Vindevoghel knows many more people from Swissport who are now at home with a C4, but I have also been able to talk to a number of them. Our original resolution stated that we wanted the VDAB to be involved, that we wanted Flanders to play its role in reactivation of the workers, but the federal level is also important in terms of labour law and legislation on restructuring and dismissal schemes. So I think that amendment is not wrong and that is why the N-VA voted in favour in committee, because it specifies in part what we meant. Apparently it was necessary to make our good intentions known to a number of colleagues. Mr Van Lommel, you are now proposing that this be taken out again and that we return to the original resolution. I am not, of course, opposed to our original resolution, but I think that the parliamentary debate has made the text richer. We've talked about it a lot and a long time. There have been and still are a lot of people on the ground, so I would like to ask you what you mean by that. What makes you think that would be better? Can you specify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u31	Mr President, I would nevertheless like to respond to Mr Francken's speech. It is not the case that we rejected all the amendments in committee. We have also supported a large number of them. I can even tell you that Mr Vandenbroucke's amendment is certainly not a bad one. What I have said is that many other things are now involved in this resolution. In today's amendment, we see issues relating to VAT, airline tickets, excise duties. We do not think this is necessary in this resolution. What was previously tabled by the same party in committee and what was finally adopted are matters relating to climate objectives, CO2 and so on. We believe that this is separate from this resolution, which is an absolute necessity. That doesn't contribute much to the jobs we're trying to save here. This does not contribute much to Brussels Airlines, which is now on the brink of bankruptcy and which must now be helped. That's what I just said. Those are the amendments we have tabled. We have also definitely supported the reactivation of staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u32	Mr President, we have gone through this resolution very thoroughly and discussed it with a lot of people from the field, with the people who are running it, with the workers at the airport. I think that a lot of people in this House only speak to employers, but have very little contact with ordinary people. This resolution creates the illusion that jobs will be saved, but it does not guarantee the jobs of many people. With Swissport 1,500 people have already been fired, Lagardère - the former Sky Shops - 180 and Brussels Airlines speaks of 1,000 out of 4,000 jobs. We have had the topical debate today in the Finance Committee where Minister De Croo explained the outcome and there is still no agreement. It's been months, people have been waiting months for a solution. I'm not at all comfortable. I just got a message from a guy from Brussels Airlines. People are very worried. Lufthansa only wants to receive subsidies to finance its restructuring. Minister De Croo was able to tell us that there have been 24 video calls and that letters have been exchanged, from which apparently speaks the good will to save a good business from bankruptcy. One month after the restart, Brussels Airlines needs to re-launch aircraft because the greenhouse is empty. It doesn't have enough cash to fly. If nothing happens, there will be a crash. We must be very aware of this. The employees have concluded a social agreement with the throat, whereby the staff will work as at Ryanair. A member of staff sent me a message: "The working hours and the rest periods proposed will be as bad as at Ryanair. People will be killed by fatigue. It's really terrible what they're gonna do. It is a profession that we very much like to do and that is now being helped." We therefore believe that, in this severe crisis, the best solution for Brussels Airlines is to get it back into public hands. A national airport needs a national home carrier if we want a sustainable solution for our economy and for the staff working at the airport. The employees of Brussels Airlines are increasingly convinced that if we do not give society into public hands, the bankruptcy will be inevitable. We absolutely must avoid that. For those who believe that this is not possible, I would like to give some examples. TAP Air Portugal belongs to the Star Alliance and is held by the government for 72%. Turkish Airlines also belongs to the Star Alliance and is at 49 % in the hands of the government, which has made it very clear in the agreement that there should be no redundancies. LOT Polish Airlines is 100% State owned and also belongs to the same alliance. SAS, Air France and KLM are examples of airlines in which the government plays a major role. The largest and busiest airports in the world are also in the hands of government. I would mention a few: Atlanta, Dubai, Los Angeles, Chicago, Beijing and Tokyo. In many countries, the largest airports are in the hands of the government. There is a second major problem, namely the airport operators. I am also thinking of the competition between baggage dealers. The two baggage dealers on Zaventem both made a loss, both Swissport that went bankrupt and Aviapartner that received subsidies. The N-VA and, as I have just heard, also the Flemish Interest, are for a third baggage dealer. I worked at the airport and I can assure you that years ago we fought a great deal against the arrival of a third baggage dealer, precisely because it would exacerbate the problem for workers. I do not know if you are aware of what it would mean to the people who work there if there were a third baggage dealer. A great deal of flexibility is already required. Part-time contracts and interim contracts are used. When I started cleaning in 1983, I got a temporary full-time contract for six months. After six months, I got a permanent contract. After five years, we all got a permanent servant contract with Sabena. Now you start at the airport with the baggage dealers as a part-timer. It takes five years to get a full-time contract. The contracts are interim or temporary. Today, the situation is even worse. There is again a second baggage dealer who accepts all people with an interim contract. The night before they have to work, they get their schedule. That is the situation today. That's what's happening at the airport right now. Social dumping is being organized. With a third baggage dealer, it's gonna get a lot worse. Only 5% of the staff are rehired. If we do not want social dumping at the airport, we must stop organising competition. The proposal now contained in the resolution has not been drawn up at all and does not provide any guarantee for the workers at the airport. We are in favour of an effective pool that organises the people, as exists in the port. The port workers are all in a pool system. They all work under the same working and wage conditions and are lent out to the various companies. It's no problem there's a second company. The employees are lent to and used by the various companies at the airport. This provides a guarantee for the employees, and that also provides a guarantee for the companies. For example, that new dealer has no material. Swissport is bankrupt and there's no material. That material must be re-purchased. This creates total uncertainty for the employees at the airport. That is why we are in favour of an airport statute for workers, a pool that will accommodate the people and then employ the people at the times when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u33	Mrs Vindevoghel, what bothers me a little, not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as mayor of Tervuren, where a lot of people who work at the airport, is that you pretend that PVDA is the only one who talks to the workers, who knows what's going on. I don't know where you're getting that pretence. When you come by on my Saturday sitting day, you'll see those people with their stories. It's not just PTB or PVDA who know what lives at an airport. You've got to let go of that pretence. That's not just in this file, that's every time you throw it up, that you're supposed to be the only one talking to the employees. Take it from me that that really isn't the case. Secondly, you are talking about competition at the airport. We went on the spot to talk to employees but also to companies. If you know the airport well, you should know that one of the problems is that, because there is so little competition, the operators set their prices so high that everything else gets in trouble. Why does Brussels Airlines get in trouble? This is partly because there is just no competition that works on market prices. It's bullshit to say that more handlers would only lead to poor working conditions. I am not convinced of that at all, quite the contrary. What is important, however, is that for all the other workers who work for all the other companies at the airport, this is simply a plague that we must combat. That is why the resolution states the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u34	Mr Spoorten, if you are talking to the workers at the airport now, you will find that everyone is concerned about the new handler. Everyone is telling me that this is about social dumping. The people who are now starting work at the airport do not have good working conditions. They all have an interim contract. Is that what we want? I don't think so. If we organize competition even more, the situation will get worse. I'm sure of that. They will then have to compete with each other. Mr Spoorten, what you are saying is not right at all. I've seen the difference in practice. I've been through both. I've been through the beginning and the end. I can assure you that the difference is very large and that it is a very big difference for the workers. It is therefore very clear to us. We want the government and Brussels Airport to assume a much greater responsibility in order to ensure that the company functions properly. Now that is not the case. Brussels Airport has earned billions of euros for five years. None of that profit has returned to the employees and to the well-being of the staff. There was no material. Aviapartner's staff had to stop to have material. That's what happened at the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u35	Mrs Vindevoghel, I will interrupt your glowing speech once again. However, Mr Van Lommel and Mr Wollants have asked to respond to what you said. They can do so consecutively, after which you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u36	Mrs Vindevoghel, first of all I would like to say that your story is, in my opinion, somewhat cheap. We are all concerned about the conditions for workers working for baggage dealers. That's a concern of all of us, isn't it? This is also clear from the resolution, in which we talk about all the jobs at the airport. We are talking about 66,000 jobs, including the traders. Mrs Vindevoghel, it is strange that you are talking about social dumping and about interim contracts that exist today. However, do you have any idea what situation we are living in at the moment? Do you have any idea how insecure the airport is today with the flights leaving and arriving? What do you expect now? Do you expect the workers concerned to get a full-time contract today in the current crisis? Do you expect them to get a fixed contract and that the interim contracts will be omitted? Mrs Vindevoghel, you live in a different world and not in reality. At the moment, I think it is only natural for labour to be used flexibly. This is all the more important now that we are talking about the survival of the remaining baggage dealer of the airlines operating there. For the rest, you say there's no material. That is quite possible, but I suppose Swissport's material will be available very soon. Perhaps a conversation with the curator will suffice and it can even be bought for a symbolic euro. Be serious, Mrs. Vindevoghel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u37	Colleagues, we must be very aware that the airport runs at dozens, if not hundreds, of companies that create added value, including for the many employees, because these companies provide the jobs. Mrs Vindevoghel, the proposals put forward by PVDA-PTB are based on the expropriation of Brussels Airlines and Brussels Airport. That is the literal text you have tabled. Then you may also want to expropriate DHL and Aviapartner and, if necessary, expropriate other companies in one move.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u38	That is not in our motion for a resolution at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u39	Your text says literally: the expropriation of the shareholders of Brussels Airlines. I think it is in the third sentence of the requests. By the way, we won't get much further. I think we need to make sure that this economic sector lives and creates added value instead of the government buying everything. In your proposal, you assume that the problem has been solved by passing on taxpayers' money. The opposite is true.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u40	Mrs Vindevoghel, please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u41	I conclude by pointing out that airports in the hands of the government are no exception at all. It can be well organized. There are also state-owned airlines in several places, so that is not exceptional either. The situation is very serious. I fear that the bankruptcy of Brussels Airlines will be pronounced tomorrow. Then we'll sit here again and what shall we do? Will we then propose that Brussels Airlines be taken over by the government or put the 4,000 employees on the street? However, they do provide about 2% of our country's gross national product. It is an important economic pool, but also an important pool for employment. We want a sustainable, social and environmental solution for the airport. We believe that our proposal is the best option in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in retrospect, the timing could not be better than today, in the light of the debate we had this afternoon in the Committee on Finance on the Brussels Airlines dossier. A not overly hopeful story, to put it mildly. It is really necessary to send a signal with Parliament. There are three issues that the sp.a. Group has put on the table as very important. Firstly, the race to the bottom in the aviation sector, Mr Vindevoghel and others, must indeed be stopped. The story of the traders of the past few months has shown how ill the system has become at some point. Competition will be created between two private companies providing services necessary for the airport to run, with the result that it became unviable for those companies and that the employees of Swissport have paid a very heavy price. I am pleased that two amendments from sp.a were accepted. They represent an important addition to the resolution. Firstly, an employment pool is being created, including Swissport's redundant workers. The aim is not to lose valuable knowledge and experience that will have to be relied on once aviation takes a higher flight. We also need to give these people a signal that will give them perspective again. Mr Vindevoghel, I hope you have understood from your many contacts that this proposal is being supported by many syndicates. That's why sp.a. put this on the table. I am particularly sorry that you are removing all this, because you know very well where this proposal comes from. Secondly, I am also very pleased that the sp.a amendment was accepted to create a price observatory. This must ensure that, especially for the traders, we do not return to a situation in which companies literally compete against each other in the face of the pardon of belonging to a larger international group which does make a profit and can continue to exist elsewhere, but where final workers pay the price. These two elements are important for our concern to stop the race to the bottom that was going on at the Brussels Airlines workplace. We also think it is important for aviation to assume its responsibilities in the context of climate challenges. Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, we will not support your amendment. On the substance of the matter, we can largely agree, but I do not think that this resolution is appropriate in order to introduce a fully European framework for the sustainability of aviation by amendment. I felt it would be more useful to table an amendment to stipulate that, when a future plan is drawn up, it explicitly includes objectives and actions related to the reduction of CO2 emissions from Brussels Airport. That amendment has also been accepted. The resolution calls on the various authorities involved, the Regions and the federal government and local authorities to draw up a future plan which will include clear objectives and actions to reduce CO2 emissions. I believe that, in the light of the scope of this resolution, we are jumping with the sp.a amendment beyond what Mr van Groen has tabled. For the sake of clarity, that debate must also be held, but this resolution does not seem to me to be the ideal medium for that. Another crucial point is that this resolution must show that Parliament really wants to offer Brussels Airport every opportunity to develop as the second most important economic gate in our country, in a way that is compatible with the viability of the environment. In this respect, too, many additional provisions have been included in the resolution. In view of the timing and what we have now heard from Minister De Croo, I hope that the resolution with the amendments that have been adopted will find greater acceptance in the vote tomorrow than in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u43	I'd like to respond. After the Flemish Interest, sp.a also points out that our amendments to outline a European framework to look at the future of aviation are not in line with this proposal. I assume that the motives of both parties are different, but they are the same. I can only repeat what I just said. It's exactly why we're inserting that passage. We cannot deny that the aviation sector as a whole is struggling with a number of problems. Over-financing is needed to keep the sector viable. Today's business model doesn't add up. Mr Vandenbroucke wants to include in the text that we are aiming for a reduction in CO2 in Brussels, but he does not think that the European framework should be included in that. But this is only possible in a European context, isn't it? Surely we will not reform and prepare the aviation sector for the future in Belgium alone? That is why we have put the amendment back on the table. The vote on this in committee was very close by seven votes to seven. We shall see how Parliament will vote on this tomorrow. The European context is necessary if we want to talk about the future of an airport or an airline.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u44	We are also in favour of a pool, but the system must be worked out and must not become a temporary agency. We want protection for workers, especially now that many people are technically unemployed in this COOVID-19 period. They end up in a system like that in the harbor. That's pretty well taken care of there. Workers are protected, retain their status and may fall back on unemployment benefit or become employed according to the need. That would be a huge improvement for the workers. You should not forget that a whole group is now technically unemployed and loses a fairly large part of its pay because they previously worked shiftwork. It would be very good if all the employees of the airport and not just Swissport could get into such a system. After all, COOVID-19 creates uncertainty for a long time to come. The workers then benefit from protection and receive an additional benefit through a social fund. At the same time, they can be made available to the companies at the airport. That is how we see it, but that is not how it was formulated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u45	Mr President, facts are facts, and in order to catch Bert Wollants for lies, we must come a long way. I must say that I have been a colleague of his for 15 years, from the cabinet of Geert Bourgeois. Where's the time, Bert? The resolution says in thesiderans 2 literally: ""to expropriate the private capital groups of Brussels Airport Company and Brussels Airlines by purchasing their shares." It does say that word. Fact checks are important these days. Apart from that, Mrs Vindevoghel, as mayor of a Flemish-Brabant municipality where many employees of the airport live, and as initiator of this resolution, I can say, after wide consultation in Flemish-Brabant, that I agree with Mr Spooren. Speaking on behalf of the workers, we must always be careful about that. I said it in committee: I have great respect for your work on the ground. You're a union woman like there aren't many. I believe that it is also necessary to defend social rights and workers' rights. I respect that, but you must be careful in your discourse. In committee, too, you often say that you speak on behalf of the workers. It's like you're the one speaking on behalf of all 66,000 employees at the airport. I'm not doing that. I would ask you not to, because that seems a little strange. In view of the latest election results, I am speaking on behalf of many more people in Flemish Brabant than you are. Anyway, I could be wrong. Mr Vanbesien, it is, among other things, because of your initiative that we are having this debate in plenary today. I appreciate that very much, but you say that more attention should be paid to the climate objectives. As you know, I asked from the outset whether the Paris Agreement should necessarily be included in the resolution. You said at that time that this is very important for you as a green party and that these climate targets and the reduction of CO2 emissions should be included literally. That's what it says now. We have approved your amendments. Considerans I: " considering that the current commitments of the aviation sector to reduce CO2 emissions put the sector on a path where global emissions increase by 220 % to 290 %, and so on. While this is not compatible with the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement is now in it, the CO2 reduction is in it. We say it's a problem. We are going for it and we are saying very clearly: we are not going to avoid it anymore. Then, far more important than the recitals are the desiderans. The last point: "on European echelon, to defend a sustainable vision of the continental mobility of persons and goods continental, i.e. not intercontinental; this is about short-haul flights, which are based on the principle of a fair transition for workers in the sector, who will have to adapt to meet international climate objectives." It's in there now, thanks to your amendment. What more can we do to bring your group to fruition? You may be able to retable all your amendments. You've brought in a lot of them, some of them haven't. It's a little give and take. We consider employment, businesses and the economy a little more important. You might find ecology a little more important. I did not say that we do not think this is important. Our slogan in Flemish Brabant by Jan and me was "Flemish and green." That's how we won the election. I am really pleased that the Minister is present in the discussion of a resolution. It rarely happens. In recent months, I have not seen the Minister present in the discussion of a resolution. Thank you very much for being here, Mr De Croo, because this is a very important debate. This also shows that the government is looking at this dossier in a serious way. You know that this is a huge life and that this means that we are going to a social massacre in the autumn. It's very difficult already. A lot of people have already been fired. In that respect, Mrs Vindevoghel is right. At Swissport, 1,500 people are put on the street. Now they tell those people that they can come to work with an interim contract for 1,000 a month. That's 400 euros less than they had. I think that's outrageous. I hope the government will say the same to that employer. Your colleague Marco Van Hees is right. We're not friends, but he had a point. If that's the case, we're gonna have to charge it. Apparently, the only person who saved his job is Swissport's boss. He's become the boss of the new handler. I think that's punishment. Everything else has to go for a hunger wage, for far less than they deserved at Swissport, now get to work at the new handler. I have an ethical problem with that. I'm rebelling against that as a politician. I believe that these workers should be treated correctly, if it is true. We need to make sure that's true first, because it's not because you say it's true. I think this should be looked at. Minister, I appreciate your presence. I don't know if there's going to be any intervention from the government. I know you're following the file very well. We had an exchange of views this afternoon. I really hope that this is a signal from Parliament, hopefully with the support of the Green Group, to say that there must be breakthroughs in the Brussels Airlines dossier in the very short term, but also on the vision of that airport over the next ten to twenty years? What is the vision that the workers want, which employers want? What is our view of this sector from the Belgian Parliament? That is so important I am very pleased that the government is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u46	Mrs. Vindevoghel, we can go on for a long time. I see Mr De Croo is here. I believe that his presence has to do with the next item on the agenda. But I can see him thinking, "When are we going to get to that point?" I saw him think it. However, let us first speak to Mrs Vindevoghel and Mr Van Lommel. After that, the general discussion of the resolution had its rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u47	Mr Francken, the situation at Swissport is very serious. A number of points are also quite correct. What I do not understand, however, is that you are making proposals here that will not bring solutions and that will not improve the situation for those involved. I made another proposal in committee myself. Before bankruptcy, I put the question to Mr Bellot. Brussels Airport could have taken over Swissport staff. That's perfectly possible. Self-handling by an airport operator is perfectly possible. In that case, those concerned would not have ended up in the situation in which they are now. They are now interim workers and certainly the servants are losing 400 euros. Those are people who have done that job for twenty to twenty-five years and know him inside and out. They now have to take exams again to do their job. They have to take exams again. They have to apply for a badge again. That's terrible. Your solution is not a solution. A third handler will certainly not offer a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u48	Mr President, I would like to reply to Mr Vanbesien, who just mentioned us when we were talking about the ecological story. There is no party in Parliament that claims that ecology is not important in society. Neither does the Flemish Interest. However, we do believe that, when the debate is held, it should be a separate debate, which also has little to do with the precarious financial situation that Brussels Airlines faces today. Mr Vanbesien, that you would force an airline to invest in a new fleet by means of amendments, whereas that money is not available today, defies all imagination. That just means you don't know where we stand today in the whole story. With your new amendments, you are now arguing for taxes and taxes. If we go on that road, Parliament can say today that the 66 000 workers concerned will no longer have a job tomorrow. After all, you really don't think about those jobs. You're only dealing with CO2, global warming and hugging trees. I am concerned here today about the companies operating at the airport and about the thousands of jobs associated with it. Let's keep the ecological story separate for now. We can do that in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u49	Mr President, I have no choice but to respond to this. I did not say that Brussels Airlines should renew its aircraft. We say, however, that we must look at the future of aviation at European level. We have given a number of examples of measures that can be considered. If you think, Mr Van Lommel, that aviation will be reorganised in the coming years as it was until six months ago and that it will continue in the same direction, then you yourself deny the future, then you deny the light of the sun. Think about what aviation will look like in the future, and beware of investing hundreds of million euros very quickly to restore aviation as it was, and then find that we need to change everything. First, think carefully and calmly at European level about how things can proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u50	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u51	Recital F/Considerans F • 29 years old Reccino Van Lommel (1355/6) Recital H/Considerans H • 30 years old Reccino Van Lommel (1355/6) Recital I/Considerans I • 31 December 1993 Reccino Van Lommel (1355/6) Demand 2/Question 2 • 32 years old Reccino Van Lommel (1355/6) Demand 3/Request 3 • 33 years old Reccino Van Lommel (1355/6) Demand 4/Question 4 • 34 • Reccino Van Lommel (1355/6) Demand 9/Question 9 • 35.............................................................................................................................. Demand 10/Request 10(n) • 36 – Gilles Vanden Burre cs (1355/6) • 37 – Gilles Vanden Burre cs (1355/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u52	The amendments are adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public However, the Council has The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u53	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: John Crombez, Jan Bertels, Joris Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u54	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Loones, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important dossier. It is not the first time we have talked about it in Parliament. What's it about? Many companies are in financial difficulties because of the corona crisis and the question is how can we ensure that they have enough money to bridge the crisis and that they are stronger in the future? We are doing this through the measure whereby companies can pay back their loans or taxes a little later in order to be able to rebuild reserves. This can also be done by ensuring that companies receive the much-needed loans. This is not evident, because financial institutions now consider some of these companies to be more risky and wonder if they will be able to repay the money. That is why, thanks to the efforts of Minister De Croo, an agreement has been reached between the government and the financial institutions, which have committed themselves and want to take that risk. We had the debate on this a few months ago, and even then we knew, even though it was good that the train left the station and the measure came on the table, that it should be changed. There's nothing wrong with that. I have already said in committee that driving is always a change. It is important to do something, put a car on the tracks and then see how the train is further shaped. Today it becomes clear that additional measures are needed and that they need to be laid down. That ambition sounds very simple, but its technical impact was very complicated. This legal text will not win beauty prizes. I'm not hiding it from you that makes me annoyed as a lawyer. We had a power of attorney de facto, which has become a power of attorney-kb de facto. We had actually asked for the settlement to be incorporated into a law, but it couldn't be, because it had to be a royal decision. Today there will be a law with a royal decree and both will live together until the end of the year. It could all have been a little more elegant, but it's what it is. As long as the cat catches mice, that's the answer we get. And there's the problem, she doesn't catch enough mice for three reasons. Firstly, banks want to take risks, but not too much stock, because the scheme is specific and in our country it is somewhat stricter than in other European countries. This gives some restraint to different banks. Secondly, it was stipulated that one could borrow money, but one had to pay back far too quickly, within a year. Companies in difficulty have difficulty doing so. It is not even known whether some companies will still exist within a year, let alone that they will be able to repay that money. Thirdly, there was too little focus on SMEs. It is commendable that the design should intervene on these three points. The focus on SMEs will indeed come. There was a $50 billion guarantee system. 10 billion of these will be reserved specifically for SMEs. It is to be welcomed that the draft also looks at the risk-sharing system. SMEs will end up in a different regime. The government will make a stronger guarantee. The draft should also be praised for looking at the deadline. Companies, at least the SMEs, which borrow and use those guarantees, will have more time to repay. That all sounds very good, one would think. That is the case and we will support the text, but it is important to point out that we may have to come back to it after the recess. The National Bank monitors the results on the ground. The figures and statistics are now starting to roll in more firmly. We expect a new state of affairs at the beginning of the new political year. This may prove to be an additional element of reform. We fear that the amount of EUR 10 billion of 50 billion reserved for SMEs is too little. It may also be a missed opportunity if some of the guarantee funds are not used, while we have all stressed that the system should be used effectively. Additional resources are also likely to be needed in the future, as risk sharing is now somewhat different for SMEs. That scheme does not apply to all undertakings using the funds. The deadline will also be longer for SMEs, but not for everyone. We are taking a new step today. We support this new step, but we call on everyone to keep the level of ambition high and not to rest on the laurels. If we find that changes are needed again, we must certainly put them on the table, debate them and hopefully approve them in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief and clear. SMEs are the beating heart of our country, the engine of our Flemish economy. During the corona crisis, we found that, in addition to a number of other occupational groups, the self-employed and SMEs have ultimately kept our country running. That is something that should be emphasized here. In March an agreement was reached with the banking sector to guarantee credit to businesses and the self-employed. The State guarantee of EUR 50 billion for twelve-month loans was an important step in this process. In the meantime, it is clear that this will no longer be enough. We are only at the beginning of what may be a very serious economic crisis. Many self-employed and SMEs are already struggling, and many will find it even more difficult. Fast lending is therefore essential to keep our businesses healthy. Meanwhile, the EUR 50 billion bazooka with which the government turned out to be a very strong water gun in March also turned out to be a water gun. That also eventually concluded Unizo. While one third of the companies needed additional bank financing, the applications were ultimately left out under State guarantee. The March banking plan was too short in a number of areas. Firstly, the maximum duration of the guaranteed appropriations, as has already been said, was not long enough. For many SMEs, recovery will take much longer than 12 months. This got entrepreneurs in trouble and eventually put bankers in a dilemma. Second, the scheme was only open to borrowers who were not companies in difficulty on 31 December 2019. In the meantime, figures from the National Bank showed that the exclusion of firms in difficulty concerned more than 18% of the companies. These and other shortcomings are addressed in this draft law. We will approve what is going on here in the interests of our self-employed and SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u57	Mr President, many measures have already been taken on corona with the laws corona 1, 2 and 3. The reconstruction reserve is coming soon, but very soon, in March, an agreement was reached with the banks on, among other things, the state guarantee. This was then evaluated, which is a good thing, and it was established that the 12-month deadline was too short and that many companies were in difficulty, just like SMEs and the self-employed. This has resulted in an adjustment that is now underway and a new, optional system in which it is possible to conclude longer-term loans up to three years, focused on the self-employed and SMEs, for which EUR 10 billion of the guarantee is reserved. We believe that this is a good adjustment and an additional weapon in the fight against the economic consequences of COVID-19 and we will therefore fully support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u58	Mr President, at the beginning of the crisis, the Minister reacted quickly by concluding an agreement with the banks. He responded quickly when there was a need for extension, adaptation and refinement, so we are very pleased with that and we are also confident that, if there is any need for further adjustments or refinements, he will do so. We are also pleased with the SME section and will therefore be happy to approve the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, support for companies in a difficult financial situation is essential and we must do so. We have had the first banking agreement, we now have the second banking agreement where there is an effective different risk sharing between the banks and the government and where other premiums are also used. A supplement to the State guarantee for certain loans to SMEs was needed. The first banking agreement didn't quite work out. We now have, in addition to a compulsory system, an optional system. There were shortcomings. There's a broad consensus on that. We need adjustments or adjustments. That's what needs to be done. This has been done with regard to the duration of guaranteed credit, with regard to the definition of which undertakings are eligible, the definition of an undertaking in difficulty. That was a good thing. Monitoring by the National Bank remains a focus of attention. I interviewed the minister about that this afternoon. Monitoring and reporting to Parliament remain important. We've had partial monitoring. Well, that does raise some questions, doesn't it? What exactly is happening on the premises? Why are certain loans and loans refused to SMEs who claim to be healthy? What exactly is behind that? We need to monitor this and perhaps come back to it in September, as colleagues have already mentioned. Perhaps we should not even wait so long to see if there are any improvements or adjustments to be made? The bill attached to this bill proposed a simultaneous extension of the duration of the loan in the mandatory scheme at the lower rates for pre-corona SMEs. The site "Unizo" has already been mentioned - claimed that there were such cases. For us, it was a good and simultaneous opportunity to combine the extension of the mandatory system with adjustments to the optional system. That was also the purpose of our bill. For us, that was an en-and-story, not an or-or story. I said that in committee too. A number of colleagues said that the spirit was good, but that they were not fully involved and that they might come back to it later if there had been a good discussion and a good exchange of views. The sp.a group will come back to this in September at the next committee meetings if the figures of the National Bank show, which is possible, that the additional adjustment to the mandatory system would be a good thing for the SMEs who were pre-corona healthy and for some reason did not get the loan with state guarantee in the first banking agreement. That discussion has not been concluded, but the adjustments that are now taking place to the optional system are already an improvement and we will support it. As far as we are concerned, it could have been a little better if we had also adapted something in the mandatory system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments and I have very little to add. An important new element is that today we have received the message from the European Commission that the scheme is accepted as a form of state aid that falls within the temporal framework. That's good news. Some people have noticed here that the first version of the guarantee scheme had to be updated. That was also right, as we are now in different circumstances. At the start of the crisis it was purely liquidity credits, while the analysis showed that SMEs in particular now have a problem in obtaining longer-term loans. An important amendment on the definition of SMEs was accepted. It is based on the European definition which expands the scope significantly. Instead of talking about companies with a maximum of 50 employees, we are talking about companies with a maximum of 250 employees. This makes this guarantee scheme much more interesting. At the same time, the moratorium that existed until the end of September will be extended until the end of the year for companies that can prove that they need it. This also applies to individuals with a deferred mortgage loan. The mortgage loan may be deferred until the end of the year. The current guarantee applies to all companies, with a maximum maturity of 12 months. Resources may be raised until the end of the year, and not only until the end of September, as originally foreseen. I would like to thank everyone for their work on the committee. I think we have been able to take the concerns of many. I believe that the adjustment of the bank guarantee scheme is particularly important for all SMEs that are now moving back to their normal business. They can have access to the funding needed for this by means of the measures currently in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u61	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u62	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1324/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1395/4) The bill has 38 articles. The draft law has 38 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u63	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u64	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u66	I would like to take the floor briefly because we voted here last week in plenary on an important resolution on the European Union. Where do we want the Union to go? How is she supposed to handle the corona crisis? What measures should be taken? There has been some laughing in this House about resolutions. But I do not think it is appropriate to make fun of this European resolution because it really outlines the framework. Firstly, I think it is important that we test everything we do here against the framework we have set ourselves. Today we have a very good example of this. How do we handle Corona? European decisions have been taken to provide EUR 240 billion in the framework of the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism. That mechanism works with conditionality. If pennies are given, they are also expected to be used in a certain way. That is exactly what we asked for in the European resolution. The condition was therefore met. Secondly, 200 billion is foreseen to be used by the European Investment Bank. When we test that against what has been agreed here, we find that this meets the conditions. This is done through an intergovernmental approach. There is respect for the powers of the Member States. There is also respect for the establishment of the European Investment Bank which has proven its ability to work on the ground. Once again, this fits within what this Parliament has decided. Thirdly, there is provision for 100 billion for SURE, a means of financing unemployment benefits in several Member States. The European resolution is clear on this too. No blank cheques can be issued, but money needs to be used specifically on the basis of needs. Here too, the resolution seems to be respected. All this in order to point out to critical colleagues the importance of what we are doing here in this Parliament, in particular setting a framework and keeping our own word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u67	It is normally Mr Vermeersch's turn now, but Mr Bertels wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u68	Mr President, I would like to supplement Mr Loones. I can also save that up to my statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in April the European Finance Ministers decided to set up three safety nets for a total volume of EUR 540 billion in the context of the corona crisis. As Mr Loones said, last week we discussed a resolution here, including the European Recovery Fund of EUR 750 billion. The EUR 540 billion was decided earlier and thus precedes the EUR 750 billion. These are staggering amounts, which are asking for a word of explanation. The EUR 540 billion is divided into three safety nets, as Mr Loones said. Firstly, there is the safety net through the European Stability Mechanism or the ESM for an amount of EUR 240 billion, especially in favour of southern European countries. What are we seeing today? No European country has already knocked on the door of the ESM. I would have liked to put a question to Mr Loones, Mr President. Mr Loones, do you know why no southern European country has made use of the ESM?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u70	I think I have an idea. That is because there is still a dream in southern Europe. In several South European political heads, the dream lives that they will get money, free of charge and for nothing and without conditions. That's where they put their hopes that pennies will fall from heaven. What appears more than ever today is that this is less and less the case, even in the plans currently on the table in Europe. I think it is far from enough, but also a form of conditionality has been incorporated. We must face up to reality in southern Europe. If we want support, it will be available if it is used efficiently and under conditions. If people don't want to use the ESM, I understand. The ESM was used in the Grexit crisis. The ESM funds are subject to very serious and severe reform obligations on how to save, how to reform and how to intervene in the pension system. The same applies to the EIB, which is subject to very clear conditions. Moreover, it is an intergovernmental rather than a Community approach, a cooperation between Member States. I can imagine that this intergovernmental working method might be a little less pleasurable for some countries, but those moneys are available. When dreams leave the heads, it may be seen that the present package is a sensible way of working together among Member States and providing support. I can only hope that the options on the table will also be used. That is the option to get loans, knowing that borrowed money has to be repaid, and that is the option to get guarantees, where one does not necessarily receive money, but has the guarantee of possible risks. So it is not just EUR 540 billion that is being given, but money is being made available, which will have to be repaid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u71	Mr Loones, the answer is a lot simpler. The ESM, which you defended today, is actually a stillborn child. The first reason, correctly outlined by you, is that the fund dates from the Greek sovereign debt crisis. Countries that are knocking at the ESM today are actually sending out a signal to the capital markets that they are in serious difficulties. Such signals are to be avoided at all costs. The real reason why southern European countries do not borrow from the ESM is, of course, because it is not about gifts. The southern European countries know that billions of donations or transfers are now coming. The EUR 750 billion European Recovery Fund, which is now in the pipeline, is made up of two thirds of grants or transfers. Why should these countries derive money from the ESM, if they can just get donations through the European Commission? For that reason, the first safety net is a born-in child. The second safety net runs through the European Investment Bank, the EIB. That safety net amounts to EUR 200 billion. Belgium must guarantee EUR 1.3 billion. The third and last safety net is called SURE, another fund from the European Commission. The Commission wants to raise EUR 100 billion on the capital market. Belgium must guarantee itself nearly EUR 1 billion. On the basis of the state guarantees of the 27 European countries, the SURE Fund will borrow money on the financial markets and ultimately lend that money to countries that ask for it. In fact, SURE issues Eurobonds, a form of coronabonds, because all European countries guarantee these government loans. Corona is also being abused here. Of course, these European bonds do not come to fight corona but to stabilise the euro area. We reject any attempt to use the corona crisis to promote ever closer integration within the euro area through mutual debt guarantees. Normally, the European Commission itself can borrow up to EUR 60 billion on the financial markets, but now another EUR 100 billion is added through this SURE that we should approve here today. The plans for EUR 750 billion are already on the table today. First it was 60 billion, then 100 billion, and then 750 billion. That's what we discussed here last week. In the meantime, Minister, it should be clear that if the European Union is given a finger, it will eventually take the whole arm. That is the reality, that is what we are going to decide here today. An important note missing from the N-VA is that SURE is a first step towards European social security. The EUR 100 billion will be spent mainly on unemployment benefits in Spain and Italy. Spain has already been promised a loan of EUR 15 billion, according to Reuters. Italy also wants a further EUR 20 billion from this fund. For example, the European express train is moving very fast. We still have to approve the Belgian guarantee here today, but most of the money has already been distributed in order to finally start a European social security system. The third safety net is clearly too far for us. If Corona has made one thing clear, it is that the European Union is not part of the solution but is the cause of many problems. The key to the recovery of our economy lies, of course, with the Member States themselves, as demonstrated by the many corona measures adopted by Flemish Interest, even today. The European Union has not only reacted far too late to the corona crisis, the recipes with which the European elite comes out today, its old wine in new bags, namely investment funds, guarantee funds, corona funds, a gift and loan recovery fund, the Eurogroup package containing, among other things, SURE and the COVID package of the ESM, the EIB and all other abbreviations that the European Union can come up with. In the meantime, the European Union has become a specialist in repacking old ideas. The old hopes of the European elite, where we are talking about joint debt-making and own European taxes, are to be pushed through and introduced under the guise of corona. We will therefore not approve this bill. We cannot accept the guarantee given by Belgium, and therefore by Flanders, for these plans. We did not approve it in the European Parliament. We shall continue to do so in a consistent manner here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u72	Mr Loones wanted to ask you a question, Mr Vermeersch.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u73	Mr Vermeersch, you conclude your speech by saying that you are consistent. I have two questions for you. First of all, in your speech, you made a weird leap. As far as the ESM is concerned, you referred to the 240 billion and you said that Belgium would have to pay a lot. Other countries take all the money and we should give a lot more. On the other hand, you say in your speech that this money is not being used at all. There are no other Member States using it. What is it now? You cannot say that you will pay a lot, on the one hand, and that the money will not be used, on the other. It's one of both. That's not consistent. Secondly, do you know how much Belgium is committed to the capital of the European Investment Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u74	I can be clear about your last question. I don't know that amount, but I can answer your first question, if I may.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u75	Mr President, I would like to finish my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u76	I will answer your first question, Mr Loones. The 540 billion package is divided into three types of measures. Firstly, the measure of EUR 240 billion through the ESM. I have made it very clear that no one is asking for money to do so. It's actually a stillborn child. That's where I'll make a distinction. Secondly, on the EUR 100 billion SURE measure, we are very clear. This is the starting point for joint debt-making, first 60, then 100 and finally 750 billion, and finally for a European social security system. We are opposed to this too, but I do make a distinction between the various measures. In one case, we have the remark that he is stillborn, but the other is too far away for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u77	Mr Vermeersch, you did not reply to my point, which was specifically about the ESM, of which you walk both paths. Whatever you say. More fundamental than my second point is the European Investment Bank. I can tell you that Belgium is committed to EUR 1.15 billion in the capital of the European Investment Bank. I will immediately put another figure against that figure for you. How many EIB investment projects are with us? How much do we get back from our money? In 2018, this was 1.7 billion euros. In 2019 it was 1.8 billion euros. So we are committed to capital for just over EUR 1 billion and get EUR 2 billion back. Why is that? This is because the European Investment Bank is a typical example of how good and sensible cooperation between Member States can be achieved. This is not a Community procedure but an intergovernmental procedure. Your party always claims to be in favour of Europe, but not of the European Union. Well, this is not about the European Union, it is about Europe. It is about Member States working together and ensuring that we get back EUR 1.8 billion in investment. I note that you do not seem to wish to support that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u78	Mr President, Mr Loones, I see that you have become a great defender of the European Union. What we are doing is also looking at the overall picture. We want to look at the overall picture. We have done the study and have examined how much Flanders ultimately pays to the European Union and how much it gets out of it, including through the EIB and all kinds of other funds. We note that the Flemings are the largest net contributor in the European Union. Our study showed a net amount of EUR 390 per Fleming per year as a contribution to the European Union. If you take one aspect of this, for example the EIB, you may be right. I don't know the detailed figures. However, if you look at the overall picture, we are the worst citizens in Europe in terms of contributions. We must finally put a stop to this. I had hoped to find an ally in your party. However, it seems that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u79	I believe that everyone involved and concerned with the European debate knows at least the difference between Member States which cooperate, the intergovernmental procedure, or the European Union which decides as an institution, the Community procedure. Mr Vermeersch is confusing these two. This has nothing to do with the European Union, this is about European Member States working together in the framework of the European Investment Bank. So that's intergovernmental. Mr Vermeersch, I will be happy to debate with you, but perhaps you should study further first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u80	I believe that anyone following this debate can see that we are still the only Eurocritical party in this hemisphere and consistently defend it. The attitude we adopt in the European Parliament is also consistently expressed in this House. Mr Loones, I have seen a number of times in the committee that you are deliberating into the idea of being a part of power. We saw this last week with the resolution on the European Recovery Fund. You simply put aside your own resolution in order to make a Green resolution work. If that is the eurocritical attitude of N-VA, I thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u81	I see a certain degree of competitiveness between the two groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u82	Before interrupting me, Mr Loones, I would like to say that I admire your knowledge, built up during your assignments at the study service. I admire your passion for the resolution you have amended together with many colleagues. I have no doubt that Mrs Merkel and Mrs von der Leyen spend sleepless nights waiting for the summit to go through your amended document. We are pleased that this draft law is before us, which we will approve.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u83	Mr President, I shall first repeat a sentence that I also made last week. We sometimes have good debates about Europe and the role of Belgium in Europe. Unfortunately, I have to say again today, as I said last week, that we have partly fallen back into slogansque language. For the sp.a Group, it is clear that European cooperation, either in the European Union or in the European Union, and that is where Mr Loones is right, there are different procedures for intergovernmental cooperation, which is a positive thing for our country. We should not agree on that. You don't have to. It is clear to us, however, that it is a positive thing. It is also clear to the majority of the population that this is a positive thing. Let us say that Europe also offers us benefits. As far as safety nets are concerned, this correct draft law is a "technical" implementation of the agreement concluded by the European Council in April. It's got three safety nets in it. The European Stability Mechanism in support of States: Belgium's guarantee is zero, not necessary. The SURE project, which is a safety net for employees, is important, for which we give a guarantee. We also provide a guarantee for the EIB's intervention for companies and SMEs. That is necessary, that is an important guarantee. That is necessary and proper implementation of what has been decided. Belgium is doing its part there. I would like to return to what Mr Loones said. There is indeed also a discussion about, among other things, the recovery fund. We have made a resolution for this, which is broad but also broad, and I said this last week, and I am not going to go back to that, but must involve solidarity and also include, both in the recital and in the questions to the government. I know the government will pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u84	Mr Bertels, I have a very simple question. I just explained SURE's system. It's also working. We see that unemployment benefits will mainly be in Italy and Spain. Does your party believe that the Fleming, the Belgian, should guarantee unemployment benefits which are ultimately paid in countries such as Spain and Italy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u85	Mr Vermeersch, it is a European system that says that countries can use that money for temporary unemployment benefits. All the countries that need it or wish to do so can make use of it. Should we have a social base within Europe? Yes. That discussion has been going on for years. Not only a purely economic pedestal, but also a social pedestal. Is that a European social security? There's a big difference. You can now say very easily: that is a European social security. We are far from there. But should there be a social base, which is also part of the European Commission's programme? Yes. I can't be any clearer about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u86	Mr President, a number of things have already been mentioned here. There has been talk of the ESM and of the fact that countries have not yet called on the ESM. That is correct. Of course, there is a certain stigma attached to that. The use of the ESM means reform, and the countries are opposed to it, but a number of countries also see it as something they want to avoid at all costs. It is perhaps a good thing that we do not use it too quickly. The use of the ESM does not require any additional guarantees from our country. One of the new elements is the SURE instrument, which aims to use the European Commission's very positive rating (AAA). At a time like this, such an AAA rating should not be used to decorate the chimney, but to use it. Let us be clear: in my view, it is in the interests of everyone and especially of countries like Belgium to avoid that certain European countries are not talking about small countries, such as Greece, but about large economies, such as Italy and Spain, for a period of ten years a kind of millstone of the economic crisis. Those who would lose the most are countries like Belgium. The four countries that benefit most from the single market are Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands and Belgium, so the discussion we have to have in our country is not about how much euro we put in it and how much euro we get back, but about how we ensure that the internal market continues to function and is further deepened. The advantage that our country gains from this is many times greater than by applying the pharmacist's approach, looking at the input and output, which in my view is done far too often. A final element is what the European Investment Bank does, being a safety net for businesses. It uses commercial banks to ensure that they maintain the funding of SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u87	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u88	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1396/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1396/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. Item 8 on the agenda, the Bill No. 1357, was sent to the Council of State for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u90	Not related Without report
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u92	Mr Minister, we fully support the draft law now before us. We fully agree with this, despite the fact that it means reducing payments to the regions. Why are we behind that? That is because the bill was drawn up at the request of the Flemish Government. The Flemish Government has believed that we should swallow the impact of the coronavirus, which we are all victims of, this year, so that we can work on a clean slate from 2021 on a recovery plan to deal with the negative impact of COVID-19. Does that hurt? Of course, that will hurt, but rather a short pain than a prolonged pain. Flanders assumes its responsibility to cope with the negative impact of COVID-19. We shall do so, as we have done for years in Flanders, with very strong resilience. We will invest, we will invest in our economy, we will give the economy oxygen in order to overcome the negative effects of this impact by means of our own resources. In fact, on the other side of the language border one should take an example of resilience in Flanders. When I read the latest press releases, however, I note that on the other side of the language border people have not yet fully understood how to deal with crises such as these. I refer to the statement by the French Community Minister for the Budget, Frédéric Daerden, that there is a deficit of EUR 1.4 billion, that one is completely dependent on donations and so one can only borrow money and will overcome the problem of an interest burden of more than 100 million a year. I wonder how that will be done there. In any case, it is not the method we advocate in Flanders. We really need to take initiatives that will lead to a structural response to this crisis. So we fully agree with your bill, Minister, and we will include the 2.1 billion in Flanders in our budget for 2020 in order to get rid of it in the relatively short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u93	Mr President, we cannot fail to take the floor on an adjustment to the provisional appropriations, as we cannot remain silent when it comes to provisional appropriations, whatever the timing of their intervention. We cannot fail to speak on any aspect of our public finances. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the budgetary situation in the country cannot be ignored. I will have the opportunity to go back to the next point, when it comes to questioning the government's use of what has been voted in committee, in particular the repeated provisions. Our public finances call for a structural strategy that will allow us to have a real debate. We had this debate a little last week when it came to considering the financial framework at European level. We saw that there were a number of ideological fractures here and there. I hope that we can quickly draw the lessons in the Finance Committee from all the hearings we have had. A number of experts have explained to us what should be done not only to ensure the recovery of the economy but also to provide additional financial resources for the State. This week, we discussed a number of proposals on securities accounts, what we call the Grauwe contribution – the name of the one we inspired – and other texts. I believe that a time like this must also be a time when we are going to take measures that will combine greater tax justice, more effective tax policy and at the same time ensure the financing of our institutions. That is the call that I would like to make when considering this adjustment to the finance law. This is not the first time I have made this appeal, but I hope that it can be implemented. That is why I believe that we must continue our work and that I will appeal to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u94	It is also important to mention that the provisional twelfths are a budget without budgetary control. If changes are to be made, one normally looks at where savings can be made, new priorities can be determined whether costs can be transferred from one post to another. I agree, Mr Laaouej, that a debate on our tax system will eventually occur. I simply note that Mr Laaouej regularly draws conclusions from the hearings that others hear in a different way. During the committee, I also said that the debate should preferably be conducted on the initiative of a government. I therefore invite his party to contribute constructively to this. As a parliament, we should also take our time. During the committee it was said that if one asks for an opinion from the Supreme Court of Finance, this could take six months. I'm always open to working on this in different working groups, outside the spotlights and the cameras. If we want to change something, it must also be sustainable and sound. For me, sustainable legislation on taxation is a law that is well-founded, is accepted, can be carried and can exceed legislative hours. That can't be a quick fix.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u95	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u96	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1399/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1399/4) The bill has 10 articles. The draft law has 10 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u98	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u99	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u100	Minister, it's the umpteenth time we've been sitting here together around the provisional twelfths. I've lost count a little bit. The fact that we have to meet so often shows once again the absolute need for a real budget, as I said before. I hope that you and your colleagues in the government are convinced that a full budget is needed to deal with this unprecedented crisis in a firm and efficient way. We will try to do that in Flanders with the resources we have and with a budget, but we must also come to an effective budget here, federally. You have the opportunity to do so, despite the majority in this House. We read almost every day in the newspaper that the total expenditure on combating the corona crisis fluctuates around EUR 15 billion. That's an insane amount. We therefore absolutely need to have a clear and clear view of public finances as soon as possible in order to be able to work effectively and to draw up a real budget in order to bring about a return to cope with the shocks of the crisis in the long term. A new commission is being added, that's the third time. That can be done at once, right? Surely one can be far-sighted enough to know what is coming to us? We find that annoying. We are not happy with that. That's also a bit of the image that comes out of people's minds, that the government is a little out of control. This can all be foreseen anyway. I have my doubts about the efficiency of this way of working. Minister, you must not be alarmed: we naturally support this additional credit, because it is absolutely necessary to combat this virus with all the means we have. In committee, like other groups in this House, we stressed the importance of being transparent about the use of these funds. Your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Clarinval, answered our question. On the 13th of July we received an email with an update, for which we thank you. Moreover, it is absolutely important, since we are still working with provisional appropriations, that Parliament be kept informed of what is happening with these many funds. Luckily, that's what's happening. We hope that this will continue to be the case in the future. Allow me to deal more specifically with a number of points. We are particularly pleased that the NAVAP account was finally included in this adjustment of provisional appropriations. That means an extra effort of plus minus 21 million euros for the federal police. For the local police, EUR 35 million will also be made available for the end-of-life scheme. That is a good thing. People have been asking for this for a long time. The various police areas are, of course, counting heavily on this amount. We also see additional investments in the police force, and this is a good thing: EUR 16 million for a fleet of cars, EUR 7.7 million for innovation, EUR 6.3 million for information technology. There is indeed a great need for police investment, and it is good that these provisional appropriations pay due attention to it. Minister, we sincerely hope that this will be the last time we have to speak here in Parliament in the context of provisional appropriations. We will approve them, but who knows what will happen next time? We always keep a stick behind the door, if only to put pressure on the drawing up of a budget, something to which both Parliament and our people are actually entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u101	Mr President, this is an important text. It's the third billion Mr. Clarinval since, within the framework... It was the man who was worth three billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u102	Much more than that! He is responsible for the entire budget. This is the third billion Mr Clarinval, since beyond the provisional twelfths calculated on the basis of the 2017 budget - let us never forget - the Minister of Budget asked, and obtained with our support, a first billion in the interdepartmental provision; a second billion in the same interdepartmental provision; and then, while we voted not so long ago the last provisional twelfths, he realized, just before the summer, that it might be useful to have, in the same interdepartmental provision, a third billion, in case... As we have made the choice, as part of the management of this enormous crisis that we are experiencing, to be supportive, we will vote for this increase in the interdepartmental provision, even if Minister Clarinval could not tell us very precisely what this third billion was going to be spent on. This is in case... - as we had to buy for 500 million euros facial masks, surgical masks or FFP2, or other urgent expenses that had to be borne by the federal state. The Minister has undertaken to inform the House on a regular basis. We cannot complain about the fact that it is fairly transparent with regard to Parliament. We can even thank him for that. In any case, he has pledged to inform us regularly of the expenses that would be allowed by this third billion. Like him, we're going to be careful. We do not know how the pandemic can evolve and we do not know what the needs are in the very short term. However, as ecologists, we will be very demanding on ex post justification of spending. Our constructivity has its limits. A hypothesis has been raised on several occasions by the Minister of Budget. We have the Minister of Finance among us, we must take advantage of it. This assumption is that there is an agreement with SN Brussels Airlines for a recapitalisation of the company. I would find it really problematic that such a commitment should be made without parliamentary scrutiny and, above all, without consideration, where appropriate, for the undertaking concerned. As I said, we are going to give the government this new flyer of fiscal manoeuvre. Necessity is law. However, I cannot help but make a few critical comments. I think it can be said that since the beginning of the Swedish government, and even before it, perhaps to a slightly lesser extent, it is a very strong and forced austerity logic that has characterized the fiscal policy of recent years, under European pressure. The support of a few particularly zealous colleagues in this Parliament has been added. But let's have a good count! Today we realize that when we are subjected, as a state, to extreme stress, like the pandemic, the savings made yesterday are little compared to the much higher costs today, especially in terms of investments in health care. It is enough to look at the non-renewal of the stock of facial masks, which took place for a purpose of economy, and the need for the purchase, at the strongest price, urgently, of masks. They're fake savings. They have weakened the capacity of public tools, including public health tools, to respond to an extreme situation such as a pandemic. In this context, one can be happy to be able to benefit from a State as an insurer of last resort.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u103	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, political control can and must be firm. We have to do our job, but it has to be done correctly. I am a little annoyed by the atmosphere that Ecolo is trying to create as if the Minister for the Budget is insufficient or not transparent about the resources that are being made available and to which they are being spent. We all believe that the method of releasing billions is at least capable of improvement. However, you cannot blame the Budget Minister for not communicating transparently and clearly for what they are used for. It's the umpteenth time that Ecolo makes this point. Last week, the Minister indicated in committee what these funds are used for. On 12 July, we all received again a table from the Minister describing and explaining the amounts to which the budgets are spent. Let the control be firm but also correct. The Minister for the Budget is very transparent on this point. That deserves praise and mention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u104	Mr Loones, you are absolutely right. I agree with you: I did not say at all that Minister Clarinval was not transparent. You misunderstood me. I am very pleased with Mr Clarinval's transparency. What I am saying is that we do not give the government and Mr Clarinval a blank cheque. I can confirm, if necessary, in French that Mr.Clarinval is probably one of the most transparent budget ministers. I knew him as a congressman. I enjoyed the information he gave us. Just today, he's asking us for a third billion. I would have liked it to be more precise about the use of this third billion. He told us in committee that he felt it was necessary, given the fact that Parliament would slow down its activities for a few weeks, to be able to have sufficient budgetary control, in particular - and this is the example he has cited on several occasions - in the event of an agreement with SN Brussels Airlines. What I think is necessary is that the same transparency continues to exist in its head and in that of the government. I continue my reasoning, Mr Loones, and my reflection on the consequences of a fiscal policy that was not visionary in terms of public health needs, the false savings that have been achieved, and the usefulness, in cases of extreme stress as we have experienced, of having a State capable of intervening budgetaryly to the aid of the sectors concerned, whether it is – and it is within the framework of another budget – that of social security with the right to bridge for the self-employed, with unemployment corona, with parental leave. As part of this budgetary adjustment, we were particularly concerned about the means that would be made available to implement agreements with the hospital sector, including nurses. The minister's response was to say that the agreement will be valid from 2021. We do hope that the necessary budgets will be made available. We have another concern about the social security consequences of the crisis, particularly for hospital funding. These are other means that will have to be found in the context of alternative financing of social security. And I can only call about it... On this point, I agree with the intervention of the N-VA colleague and call for a real budgetary debate. The last real budgetary debate that took place in Belgium, beyond the debates on the provisional twelfths, was at the end of 2017. At the end of 2018, we were going to start a budget debate when a majority party decided to shut the door. Since then, we have been operating on the basis of provisional twelfths without the capacity for real debate, with the opinion of the Court of Auditors and other bodies which provide us with useful advice on expenditure and revenue. In addition to these two fundamental items in all accounts, the question of our investment capacity for the redeployment of our State is added. Minister Clarinval has announced his hope that in October he will be able to present a real budget and have this debate that we are waiting for and looking forward to one day. But I had to remind him that, for the time being, with the government in place, he did not have a majority. I would also like to remind all my colleagues that a majority with a real project, a project that is obviously greener, since the environmental and climate issues that face us must be taken in arms, but also more solidarity and more democratic, is necessary. I have informed the minister, on behalf of my group, of our willingness to work on it in order to stop adding padsticks on the wooden leg that the Belgian state budget has been decidedly since the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u105	We therefore agree that Mr Clarinval is transparent. If all billionaires were just as transparent, we would live in another world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are going to vote here is not nothing! We are in full derogation from the common budgetary law, which in essence should be the state budget. First of all, provisional appropriations are in themselves a necessity but a necessity which is not desirable, a necessity which reflects the impossibility for our Parliament, in the absence of a government and a majority, of voting a proper budget in accordance with the rules of law. Therefore, in order to ensure the continuity of the public service and the institutions, we vote on these provisional appropriations, which are backed up by what was spent in the previous financial year. Not only are we doing this – which in itself is already a form of anomaly – but, in addition, we are about to vote for a provision, a new provision of one billion euros, which is in addition to two other provisions, themselves, of one billion euros. So we are at EUR 3 billion. A provision is more than an exception. This is more than a derogation from budgetary law. This is quite the opposite of budgetary law because the most important act to vote in Parliament is the budget. And that is to say how the revenue we collect and which, moreover, must be authorised – we cannot levy taxes without the authorisation of our Parliament, as the Constitution wants – will be distributed, according to a whole series of expenditure that is classified in a very precise way. This is not done with the euro, certainly not, but in detail and by heading. Why did those who preceded us pass these laws? To enable us to ensure democratic control over the use of public funds. It is not to make volumes and volumes on which we must vote, to multiply the pages or to ask us to take time. No! It is to enable us to ensure the reason why we are here, the only reason why we are elected: democratic control of public funds. That is why the rule of specialty exists: this is what the public money goes to, heading by heading. A provision is exactly the opposite. A provision is used when we do not know what the money will be intended for, but we still reserve resources. If these are means of a few tens of millions of euros, who will complain about it? We can understand. Even when we suffered a shock of great importance, we saw it when the country was hit by terrorism, a provision of several hundred thousand euros was put in place. But here, for the third time, a provision of one billion! I do not want to be unpleasant about Mr Clarinval and, in any case, it is not his fault, the responsibility being collegial. But as far as transparency is concerned, Mr Loones, let us not exaggerate! He's giving us a painting. It's better than nothing! I recognize him. But in this table, the "public health" section has 820 million euros! After that, the detail has to come. He's from a posteriori. Here, we asked the minister to share two things with us. Firstly, how the billion will be allocated a priori, so as to have concrete elements. I'm going to come because there are a few masses that are reserved. Second, no blank check! We want a monitoring, a control of that public money. And we want democratic control. Moreover, since it is a derogation from democratic control because of non-compliance with the rule of speciality, this democratic control must be strengthened. That is why regular and frequent parliamentary monitoring is needed. I am not in favour of parliamentary bureaucracy. It doesn't amuse me to multiply the meetings at which it is said twice the same thing! I'm not interested. It seems to me that our institution has something else to do. But with regard to a third billion, I am sorry, but it is the money of our fellow citizens and we are representatives of the Nation and our fellow citizens. Despite the difficulties that the provision imposes on us, we must try to exercise this control. For this reason, I would ask that we be particularly active in our Finance and Budget Committee, and that the minister come regularly to tell us how this money is being used. More specifically, we know that this money should be used to finance the famous 600 million euros that are being negotiated and should be used to upgrade the health care sector in terms of recruitment or salary upgrading. I'd like to know where it's put in the budget. Are we going to draw from the supply? I would like a definitive clarification: if it is not in the provision, how do you intend to put in place a real budget appropriation? We are told that these are structural amounts, which are therefore recurrent, which is obviously not compatible with the concept of provision. On the other hand, from when will these means be committed and liquidated? They're talking about 2021. Can you therefore confirm that there will be nothing in 2020? Moreover, there is talk of a trend that would go crescendo: 350 million euros this year, 300 million euros in 2021 and the rest in 2022. Can the minister confirm these figures? Finally, of course, we welcome the agreement that has been reached on the end-of-career regime (NAPAP), which allows for some relief of finances at the level of local police areas. For the rest, in view of all these derogations, more democratic control is, in my view, indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u107	Minister, with an exceptional procedure, an additional EUR 1 billion is requested from Parliament: a commission or a savings fund of EUR 1 billion. In Belgian terms, it is of course better to speak of an extra well of EUR 1 billion. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that in March we made a pit of EUR 1 billion, in June we added another pit of EUR 1 billion, and now we add a third well of EUR 1 billion. This makes an exceptional commission of a total of 3 billion euros. What particularly affects us, Minister, is the way in which this happens all the time. Your minority government decides to spend an additional billion euros on its own, on top of the EUR 2 billion that we have already released, without first hearing Parliament. The emergency government is always presenting to Parliament the facts that have been fulfilled. However, may I remind you, Minister, that the powers of the Wilmès Government are now in complete silence. No politician speaks of this, but the so-called special powers of the residual government are over. Your minority government still represents 38 out of 150 seats, you represent only 25% of Parliament. From a purely political point of view, the expiry of the power of attorney means that you must resume negotiations with Parliament in order to get something done. The rest of the government must once again act like a minority government and submit to the will of the majority in this House. Normally the government makes a proposal and ultimately Parliament decides, but here the reasoning is actually reversed. We do not want to give a blank cheque of EUR 1 billion to a residual government without any power of attorney, a residual government that represents only 38 seats and 25% of Parliament. This does not, of course, mean that we would not be prepared to finance the rescue of Brussels Airlines. Let it be clear that the Flemish Interest is willing to provide financial support to the airline if it can strengthen the sustainable employment and international position of Flanders as a logistical gateway to Europe; if there are guarantees about the future of Brussels Airlines and the necessary guarantees for the living environment and quality of the residents. If, for example, in the coming days, weeks or months, hundreds of millions of euros are needed to save employment in the airport, then, as far as we are concerned, Parliament must be called together immediately. Such an important decision must be supported by a majority in this House and be the subject of a wide-ranging debate. We do not want to give a blank cheque to a minority government, but perhaps a covered cheque that has been carried by Parliament. Today, this one-billion-dollar check is uncovered. Ladies and gentlemen, last Monday we received this laundry list of EUR 1.5 billion in corona-related measures, but also 400 million new expenditures that are already committed. This laundry list was neatly drawn up in monolingual French. The Flemings who are ultimately allowed to pay most of the bills were sent the invoice in French. This is 3 billion euros, please; and for the Flemish, the same thing! That is Belgium in a nutshell: a large French invoice, paid by the hardworking Fleming! Colleagues, we must sincerely ask ourselves whether the first EUR 2 billion was spent efficiently. Those who go through this French-speaking laundry list of the minister see a number of major blunders of the corona government passing. Think about the Avrox mouth masks or Koen Geens mouth mask filters. It is hallucinating, almost hypocritical, that we now have to wear mouth masks in this House, when this was the place where the usefulness of mouth masks was always denied. I can't find a head or tail on it. This laundry list mentions blunders by the government such as the Avrox mouth masks, Koen Geens mouth mask filters and a measure that is particularly striking in this list, the Railpass and the green arithmetic accompanying it. Remember that the super core came up with the bright idea to give every Belgian free train tickets, to promote train riding in corona times. Bombous trains like super-distributors of the virus, the ecologists in Parliament all see no problem in it. The arithmetic of the ecologists behind this proposal is also unseen. I quote Mr Kim Buyst van Groen in the newspaper De Tijd. Hold on, she said: "After years of saving, there is finally a positive measure for public transport. SNCB lost 400 million euros because of the corona crisis. The support in the form of a 12-way ticket gives the railway company financial breathing space. It also directly benefits travellers. The financing is part of the global COOVID-19 compensation for SNCB and does not require an additional amount." Railway boss Sophie Dutordoir, whose opinion was obviously not asked, was rightly furious. Eventually there were not twelve but ten free rides. Just giving out ten free rides is what Green and the ecologists in this Parliament call support, financial breathing space and the funding of SNCB. Green arithmetic, ladies and gentlemen. The more passengers do not pay, the better for the railways, says the ecologists in this House. In this list of the Budget Minister, however, we can see the cost of that joke. The free train tickets cost the taxpayer in this country as much as 110 million euros. SNCB will therefore receive an additional account, perhaps only in French, of more than EUR 100 million on top of the loss of EUR 400 million due to the corona crisis. No problem for the Greens, the taxpayer will eventually close the gap with SNCB. If this is a harbinger of the possible purple-green fiscal policy in this country, then we will still have a lot of work to do in the Finance Committee. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there are measures in this draft law which we can support, namely the dotation to skeyes, important investments in the federal police, the necessary funding of the end-of-life system in the federal and local police and the donations to the regions and the Communities in that country. We are opposed to the blank cheque of EUR 1 billion for the minority government, but of course we support the adjustments just mentioned. We will therefore abstain in the vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u108	Mr President, in this draft law on the adjustment of provisional appropriations, a number of adjustments have been made, including the NAVAP for the federal local police, which the Minister had announced would be resolved. That's being taken into account right now. The most striking thing is, of course, the third billion, which we have just discussed in detail. After the first billion in March with a whole range of related expenditures, of which we have received an overview, and the second billion in June, this is the third billion, which according to what the Minister has explained is necessary to finance, first of all, the initiatives already taken, such as support for the OMCWs, first-line aid to hospitals, extension of parental leave, etc. The third billion should also give us room for what may be ahead of us, including possible intervention for Brussels Airlines and a number of necessary expenditure that may be needed in the coming weeks and months in the event of the outbreak of a second wave. In this respect, the third billion is a method of responding flexibly to what is to come and is forward-looking, but it also covers some of the initiatives that have already been taken. We are convinced that Minister Clarinval, as he has done in the past, will explain these expenses transparently in committee. We will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u109	Mr President, I have also brought forward a piece of my explanatory statement so that I can go along with Mr Laaouej's statement. I was delighted with Mr. Laaouej's analysis. I agree that this is not a budget. The need for a government with a fixed majority is even greater, because it is nice to say that parliamentary monitoring is needed, but we are in the opposite world. In the long term, we sail blind, because there is no government and no policy. Mr Laaouej, I welcome your analysis, but I invite you to sit down with the other parties, including the N-VA, as your president has indicated. Mr Van der Donkt, I would like to ask you to keep his staff at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u110	Mr Loones, would you like to respond to Mr Leysen's statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u111	Mr Leysen, I do have a question for you. Most of us work very hard. Let me give you an example. Mr. Jan Spooren was sitting right next to me. The N-VA has developed an activation package in detail with legislative proposals and draft laws. In his capacity as a Member of Parliament, Mr Spoorten has worked out this very concretely. That package will ensure that hundreds of thousands of people will be able to work extra. So we are working on how to reform. There are other Members who make proposals to make the budget sound, whether by savings or by levying additional taxes, in order to obtain income. However, they make that concrete. They draw up legislative proposals and conduct the debate here. Mr Leysen, we hear slogans from you in the debate. My question to you is, above all, this. What will you do this summer? Will you, I hope, use the parliamentary recess as useful as Mr Jan Spooren, as Mr Jan Bertels, as Mr Vandenbroucke and as various Members here in Parliament, to ensure that in September we will not only be able to hear and enjoy your speeches, but hopefully we will also be able to enjoy very concrete legislative proposals from you, which you yourself have prepared and which may not only have been passed on to you through the post-bus office of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u112	Mr. Loones, you're not listening. You are replying to a text that I had not already said. I will, by the way, work on the Redesign 2.0 document this summer, following the work of your Minister, before he has so briefly passed the torch on to you. During the previous parliamentary term, his work provided for a saving of EUR 765 million, of which I believe a few tens of millions have been achieved. You can expect the redevelopment of that redesign from me after the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u113	From good intentions, we will continue the original debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u114	Mr President, I will try not to damage your good intentions, but I am not entirely sure. Colleagues, provisional appropriations or provisional twelfths are necessary for the continuity of public services, which our citizens are rightly entitled to expect from the public authorities. We have always supported it consistently, even though its basis is not our basis, but we will continue to do so now in the adjustment of the provisional twelfths. So you have that support, Minister. However, there are a number of comments to be made. Mr Laaouej already referred to the specificity or speciality of the budget. That is a key concept of budgetary law. It cannot be fully realised with a new extra disk of EUR 1 billion commission in the interdepartmental commission. We will support the EUR 3 billion interdepartmental commission for the fight against corona, because we assume and want to provide the assurance that the funds can be used if they are needed in the fight against corona. You will therefore receive our support, for example, for the granting of liquidity to hospitals or for the granting of funds to be used to preserve public health. However, there must be monitoring or reporting to Parliament on this. Minister Clarinval has also promised it. We are giving a large commission to the government and ministers, but they must report consistently to Parliament on this so that we can monitor its use. In the same way, we welcome the fact that there is support for Skeyes as part of our security surveillance. It's about a dot and a loan. The management agreement will be amended. That's good business. The commitment or agreement that we would provide the necessary resources for the police's end-of-life system has also been respected. So the so-called NAVAP is also in this. There is also an adaptation of the donations to the communities and the regions. Following the amendment of the Finance Act, which is translated into these provisional appropriations. Mr Vermeersch, I have just heard you say that you support this, but you do not support this law. You must be consistent. But I will try not to embarrass the President's good intentions. That adjustment's in there. That is a good thing. That is in line with the financial law that is being amended. Thirdly and finally, of course, we would all like to discuss a fully-fledged budget with a revenue and expenditure section. We would all like to discuss whether the budgetary balance and the budget are an indulgence of the policy that one wants and/or can pursue. This requires a fully-fledged federal government. Let us hope that it will be there as soon as possible, so that we can have a full debate on it. However, Mr Leysen, I do not want us to declare Parliament and the Members of the Finance Committee technically unemployed. No, let us discuss the budgetary aspects in the Finance Committee. Let us be well informed. Because I found the presentation of the report of the Supreme Court of Finance on fiscal reform somewhat derogatory. That was a good performance with all the nuances and all the differences. Let us put it out there, ladies and gentlemen, with a view to possible proposals. We can do that for expenditure, but also for revenue. As far as I am concerned, account is also taken of the comments made by the experts we have heard this week on the securities tax or the corona contribution, the special crisis contribution. That was a very useful exercise for me. Let's take part in this exercise. Yes, we must continue to discuss this. And no, we should not say: we cannot do that; we need a full government for that. Yes, we need it, but as long as it is not there, we parliamentarians are paid to do our job, not to have ourselves declared technically unemployed. I'd like a little more respect for yourself, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u115	Mr Bertels, I fully agree with you and I would like to avoid misunderstandings if I take a critical look at the oral questions, for example. The hearings are particularly good. I never play the man with criticism of members of the committee in order to reflect together afterwards, but without cameras. Then one can speak freely without playing things against one or the other. I think that the thorough work, which is necessary, goes beyond the accumulation of legislative proposals or oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u116	As a general rule, committee meetings are public, in the light of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u117	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Leysen for the first part of his speech. I thank him much less for the second part. Let us be public, that is why we are a parliament, discussing expert advice. Let us ask oral questions, and if we have a discussion on this, let us have them together with the ministers. Let's do our job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u118	Minister Clarinval has asked me to replace him here. Had I known that I would be associated with the Minister of many billions, I might have been more enthusiastic when he asked me the question. In any case, the Minister answered a number of questions in detail in committee. With regard to the health care agreement, it has been made clear in the committee that we are talking about the budget period 2021-2022. For the provisional twelfths for the end of the year, reference will be made to the fact that this will be well planned for the period 2021-2022. With regard to the use of the billions, the Minister has always sent an overview to all members of the committee for the first EUR 2 billion, in order to give sufficient transparency, as Mr Van der Donkt points out. Of course, transparency will also be provided for the third billion if used. The reason why this is foreseen is the forthcoming receipt period, where we do not know whether a second wave will entail additional costs, for example if more funding is needed for hospitals. I understand from the Minister for the Budget that this is really a matter of caution. The sooner we can say goodbye to the system of provisional twelfths, the better of course. Unfortunately, the latest real budgetary discussion dates back several years ago, from 2017. As a country, therefore, we cannot really afford to have to re-table a budget for 2021 that does not reflect any policy. The deadline for the European Commission is 15 October, but de facto this means that the budget must be ready by 15 September. I am referring to a fully developed budget, which is, in a sense, an anthology of the policy that will be implemented in 2021. There will certainly have to be a piece of support and relance in that. Anyone who thinks this is settled in a few weeks is mistaken, I think. If we want that budget to be ready on 15 September, I hope that the budgetary work can start in the short term. If not, then I think that we are unnecessarily vulnerable, will be open to criticism and show a lack of policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u119	All I can do is join you. Today is July 15th, so September 15th is in two months. In my career it has sometimes happened that in less than two months there was a government agreement and a draft budget. This is certainly possible if there is a political will, Minister. I'd like to support your call. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u120	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (140/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1410/1) The bill has 12 clauses. The draft law has 12 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u121	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u122	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Franky Demon, Jan Briers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u123	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Kitir, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u124	Mr President, we do not wish to speak on the subject. Indeed, we have already had the opportunity to refer to the latter in committee and our position is well known.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u125	Mr President, this legislative proposal, which also received urgency, was adopted by a large majority in the Committee on the Interior last week. As far as the content is concerned, the legislative proposal makes a legal correction. The functions and tasks of the police's administrative and logistical framework have evolved greatly over the years, from purely administrative tasks to full support for the operational framework. Certain key functions in the processing of operational police information are performed by the CALog staff. The aim of the proposal is to provide a legal framework that will clarify support for the administrative and logistical framework of the integrated police. The scope of that framework for the processing of operational data is also defined. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that tomorrow, as in committee, the text will be adopted by a large majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u126	Mr President, I would just like a minute to support this text. There is a strong demand for this legislative framework for services. The CaLogs are currently carrying out a series of missions and are also able to release police personnel from a series of tasks. While it is clear that it is because of a shortage of staff that these CaLogs must, in particular, take over some of the police tasks, it is also essential that we think – and this is the purpose of this text in particular – that these CaLogs can in the future truly take over this work not by default of budget but by real political will, so that the police can devote themselves to its essential tasks. We regret that this has been split in relation to the justice case, since it could very well have included this aspect. Indeed, it is mostly judicial information that is processed by these CaLogs. There is a real demand from the ground and we will support this text unreservedly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u127	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u128	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1400/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1400/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u130	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Koen Metsu, Peter Buysrogge, Yngvild Ingels, Joy Donné, Theo Francken, Franky Demon, Björn Anseuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u131	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1332/4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1332/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Van Langenhove, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u132	I will try to be as efficient as my predecessor in discussing the previous bill. I would like to mention how this motion for a resolution came about. Especially in Flanders, there has been a great deal of nuisance in public recreational areas and swimming pools for almost twenty years. After doing some field work for about a year and consulting with all the experts in the recreational areas, I have come to some insights and I have, initially, written a bill that I admit - perhaps a bit far-reaching and perhaps not passed the test of this house. As we believe that the executive has a very important role to play, it has become a motion for a resolution. We've taken a lot of advice. As far as we are concerned, the Data Protection Authority had no objection or was not called upon to give advice. That is also very logical, because there is no elaborate model. That is exactly what we are asking the Minister of the Interior and his colleagues from the government. In the camp of the PS it was warned that the GBA would find this disproportionate. With all due respect, I have neither read nor heard a word about it. The advice of the Flemish Savior's Federation and the association of Flemish Provinces, which I hope you have read all of them, are very positive. Those are the experts from the field, who are asking us to work on this, please. This should have been done ten years ago. They welcome the motion for a resolution. I am therefore very pleased that the work in committee has been brought to a successful conclusion: I think we had a good and honest debate. I was even a little concerned - and I say this in a personal capacity - that there were no abstentions but votes against. I repeat what I started. This is a problem mainly facing Flanders. That does not mean, of course, that our Walloon colleagues must ignore it. After all, the solution can be found in this house. She needs to be federally regulated. So I would like to thank the colleagues from MR for their support for the proposal. At 11 o'clock, the evening before the discussion in the committee, there was a document from the Minister of the Interior, it wasn't an opinion, because that was not requested in which he referred to the police nuisance on the basis of figures from 2007. I quote that here, not because the Minister minimizes the problem, certainly not, but because we, inspiringly, tabled an amendment to update the study. It's not just about police facts, but also about sexual harassment, general nuisance, fighting, theft, you name it. In substance, we are calling for the text, first of all, to be removed from the text and, secondly, to prevent anyone caught in recreational domain A, the week after that, from performing the same tours in recreational domain B, where there is no place ban. That is why I am pleased that Mr Anseeeuw has co-signed the text, because the example of Ostend served as an inspiration in writing the proposal. Last year, Mayor Tommelein imposed a restraining order on three young people. That only applied to the public swimming pool in Ostend and therefore not to Hofstade, not to the Star, not to land anywhere. With the proposal, we are expressly asking the government to tackle the recidivism of the amok makers. And yes, a blacklist will be drawn up. There is no other way, and after a visitor's check, either to grant them access or to deny them access, if it turns out that it is going to be agitators who over and over and over again. Especially in times of staycation we want to enjoy our public recreational areas and pools. I have noted what has remained with me from the meeting. The PS colleagues referred to the proposal as disproportionate. A colleague from cdH said we shoot a mosquito with a bazooka and didn't find the right solution. We can always say that, but what is the right solution? I repeat that we have spared no time or effort to talk to the experts in the field over the past year. They are all behind our suggestions, one at a time. We have actually left a very broad window to the government. I therefore very much regret that, fortunately, just under half of the text before us was against the text before us. Is that political will? Is that because the proposal comes from us? Is that because it is not a problem in certain areas or regions? I did ask myself those questions afterwards. I have to be very honest in that. I note that a few Members also wish to speak. I can therefore conclude my speech more or less, although of course I would like to answer their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u133	You mention twice that we consider the answer to be disproportionate to the data. That is indeed what emerges. You say that the data coming from the law enforcement agencies are old, that they don't include all the elements. It seems to us, once again, that what is referred to amounts to shooting at bazooka, with red balls, on facts that, of course, we do not deny. There are certainly problematic facts in swimming pools as you mention it, but on the other hand, the measure you propose is quite disproportionate. Today, there are other measures than blacklists, lists that will stigmatize, which will affect individual freedom and the protection of privacy. There is an opportunity for institutions to provide protection, to manage their internal security. If there are measures to be taken against young people who do not comply with the legislation, whether criminal, civil or otherwise, these measures must be taken by the courts. It is not for institutions to take these measures jointly, on the basis of lists they have drawn up. Everyone has a role to play. If there are problems of incivility or delinquency, they must be referred to the competent courts, which will then take measures and sanctions. However, it is not possible for private institutions themselves to define the behaviour to be adopted for all institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u134	I'm going to answer because you re-used one of my expressions. I said in committee that with this text, "we were killing a fly with a cannon." I still think so. Far be it from me to say that this is happening in Flanders and that we have nothing to do with it. That's not the case. I said it again very clearly. It's not that question at all that enlivens me. I am a trained lawyer, and I am very committed to the balance of rights in question. I would not like to be made an argument of a lack of means of justice and of the police. I apologize, I will say it very kindly because at this time I do not want to create a controversy, this is partly due to your minister and the government of which you were a part, which have helped to reduce the means. You say that there are no means and that these crimes and offences are not prosecuted, that we will therefore move on to other measures. I am not saying that further measures should not be considered, but it goes without saying that some traders are faced with cases of shoplifting and that they too would like to have a blacklist of "usuals" who are not prosecuted because the facts are considered minor. In my view, putting your finger in this gear without much more important guarantees is particularly dangerous. Of course, we can consider more effective measures, but I do not want the lack of judicial and police resources to be used as an argument to justify other measures that are legally questionable practices. I think we need to be much more balanced on the proposals that can be made. We are, of course, willing to be involved in a global reflection, including on businesses facing the same type of mechanism that is difficult to implement and for which the legislator does not seem to be ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u135	Mr President, I would like to intervene because I have always heard the same noise that I have been hearing for ten years:stigmatisation, discrimination, shooting a cannon at a mosquito. In Flemish Brabant there have been a number of problems in recent years with a number of youth groups that behave badly in our outdoor pools. One of the main reasons is because there is no outdoor swimming pool in Brussels. During Brussels Bath anything except swimming can be done. Other than that, there's nothing. It has been a problem for years and for years the Brussels regional government or the Brussels city council has been promising to provide swimming pools in Brussels. There will not be any. In the summer, many of those young people from Brussels travel to Flemish-Brabant provincial or other areas. I would like to stress that a great many of these young people, the vast majority of them, behave very well. I would like to emphasise that. That has nothing to do with stigmatizing. It is stigmatizing to say that all Moroccan young people coming from Brussels, Molenbeek, Frost or Saint-Gilles are causing misery. That's not what we're saying. You didn't hear that. It is important that you listen carefully, that you put your ear to listen on the Brabant's premises. We do notice that some young people behave badly, summer after summer, in Zemst, in Hofstade, in Huizingen, in the Half Moon in Diest. That leads to problems. Mrs. Geerinckx, the mayor of Zemst, says she had to do something and so she performed. Then the mayor of Diest was confronted with those young people who were excluded from the provincial domain in Zemst a few days or weeks before. When the mayor of Diest, Mr De Graef van Open Vld, performs, those young people in Huizingen are going to make a stink. That's a reality, not a fiction. It's about a number of young people. Most young people behave very well and are welcome in public areas in Flemish Brabant, but there is a problem. Keep sweeping that problem under the mat and saying that shooting a cannon on a mosquito is not true, that we stigmatize, that we cannot do that, that we want to put all young people in a corner, we don't do that. Stop putting those words in our mouths over and over again. I'm done, I've been in politics for too long and certainly too long in this Chamber. I'm done. I'm done. No one's saying that. Brussels young people continue to be welcome in the public domains in Flemish Brabant. It would be better for Brussels to create a few of its own, but it is not. There's not enough room there. The young people are therefore welcome, but there are certain groups that are misbehaving. Whatever it takes, we hear everywhere. Talk to the mayors in Flemish Brabant. Make a blacklist, so that the young people who are excluded on a domain are no longer welcome elsewhere. That's how they know they're just supposed to behave. If they behave badly, they should not think that after they are excluded in Beersel and Huizingen, they can simply go to Diest, because they are not yet known there. If that doesn't work, they can still try to get to Zemst. No, don't do that. We pass that black list on to each other and tell them to behave. If one behaves, we are friends and we make a nice holiday together. That's the point, so that has nothing to do with stigmatizing. That word is used too often in political discussions when it comes to more stringent measures. I'm not gonna stand for that. In practice, as mayor in Flemish Brabant, I am telling you what it is about. It's not about all the kids. We will never generalize, but there is a problem. Why don't you just face that? What is the problem of admitting that there is a problem with certain young people? I don't get it. I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u136	Mr President, I am not going to comment on Mr Franken's remarks. Mr Franken, when you talk about young people in Forest or Molenbeek, they are young Belgians. You're talking about young Moroccans, but they're young Belgians. You can talk about their descent, but I see it's a flaw you can't get away from. These are young Belgians, whether you like it or not, whether they are turbulent or not. That it is necessary to manage their turbulence, some do it on a daily basis, but they are young Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u137	Mr President, that proves once again that there is no listening. That's not my point at all. Those are, of course, Belgians. That's what I've been through with you for five years. That's what's gonna get me. That's not my point at all. I'll correct myself. Those are, of course, Belgians. Not all of them, some of them do not have Belgian nationality, but most of them do, but that was not my point at all. Your colleague from your group says that this bill is stigmatizing. Stigmatizing means that a particular population group or group, such as the youth or people of a particular origin, are stigmatized and géneralized, which we generalize. That's stigmatizing. You should look up that verb in the Van Dale. It'll teach you a little. That's what you're saying. I dispute that is what we are doing with this bill. We are not saying that all young people coming from Brussels, of any kind, would be misbehaving in the outdoor swimming pools in Flemish Brabant. That is not what Mr Metsu said either. We are mayors with responsibility in our congregation and we hear from other mayors with responsibility in their municipalities that there is sometimes a problem with certain groups of any origin. They are very often Belgians, Mr Laaouej. So I corrected that on this one. I do not accept the accusation that there is talk of stigmatisation, because that has nothing to do with stigmatisation, even just now. That was my point. You're going into a detail to attack me. Can you answer the question, do you think that this proposal is stigmatising, that we are putting everyone on the same footing? That is my question to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u138	I think the point is made with this. I can now give the floor to Mr Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every year during the summer months we are confronted with visitors who are ruining our many recreational areas and outdoor pools. This is not only disturbing and sometimes frightening for the other guests, but also for the staff this is not pleasant, especially if violence is used against them regularly. Unfortunately, this is not a new phenomenon. Every year we are confronted with it to a large or small extent. However, several steps have rightly been taken. For example, there was a place ban under the GAS legislation. That works well in itself, but it does not prevent the offenders from simply going to another recreation area nearby. With this motion for a resolution, we indicate our desire to find a solution to this problem, which I fully support. I wonder who isn't. The managers and staff of the domains are already in favour. Most of the guests, too. I am well aware that this is a difficult task for the Minister. The will to find a solution exists among many, but there are many obstacles. That is also the reason why several previous ministers of the Interior have bitten their teeth there. We must realise that this will have a certain cost impact. We must also take into account the privacy of the guests. The vast majority simply comes to have fun and does nothing wrong at all. If we pass on their data or put them in a new database, we must make sure that this is in full compliance with the privacy law. That is what this resolution is about. That means that the structural solution we are asking for will probably not be there tomorrow. We can't expect the Minister to do that either. This solution needs to be worked out in detail, but at last we want to tackle the problems that come back every year in depth. Colleagues, the corona crisis makes sure that more people than ever spend their holidays in their own country. Many of them will want to enjoy a quiet day out in one of the many recreational areas. With this resolution, we will give them and the staff the signal that we will not tolerate any inconvenience. For the sake of clarity, this summer too, there will be tough action against those who behave badly, let there be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u140	Mr President, I would, of course, like to thank Mr Demon and the others who have contributed constructively to this resolution. He hit the nail on the head here. It may not be possible that that solution will be there tomorrow, but I am very happy that we can arrange this today because these recreational areas are now open again and must have a perspective. We wanted to help the minister on the way, and for that we have based ourselves on the football law, in particular on the stadium ban that has already passed the test of privacy. The Data Protection Authority has expressed its views on this issue and stated that this did not pose any problems. This has been discussed and approved in this House. It has practically completely removed hooliganism from our football class. We now want to give that signal for the recreational areas, according to exactly the same principle. That doesn't have to be very difficult. Will it require additional resources and will it be the umpteenth database? Actually, I don't know. However, I believe that the system is relatively simple. The test on the sum was already taken in a few outdoor pools where one simply entered an identity check. That seemed to be a good first step because it already caused half the nuisance in certain recreational areas. It can happen on a voluntary basis or not, we will see what the further effect will be within those recreational areas. Are private players allowed to join or not? As a visitor of such a recreational domain I would much rather show my identity card if I know that I can enjoy my well-deserved leisure time quietly for a day, then again the risk that that day will be spoiled by the same young people. They're always young and always the same. If they do it one week in place A, they'll do it the next week in place B. This resolution will remedy that, and if it is still possible this year, it will be all the better, if it is no longer possible this year, then it will be for next year. Once again, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the constructive attitude and I was as remodelled as my colleague from CD&V when I found that this motion for a resolution could count on voting against it. That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u141	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u142	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u143	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: 1057: Eliane Tillieux, Patrick Prévot, Hervé Rigot 1064: Els Van Hoof, Catherine Fonck. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two proposals. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two proposals. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u144	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u145	Mr President, there is no written report available yet, so I will give an oral explanation. It concerns a specific allowance in the cost of contraception for women under 21 years of age in order to extend that scheme to women with increased benefits. We started the discussion of the dossier on 10 March 2020. At that time, the proposal was linked to Mrs Tillieux's proposal from the PS. But then came corona and the whole agenda was trashed. It was only at the meeting of 7 July 2020 that we resumed the proposal in committee. At that time it was disconnected from Mrs Tillieux's proposal, but it was linked to the Ecolo-Green proposal. At that time, the RIZIV was also asked for budgetary estimates for both proposals and for Mrs Merckx's amendments, which had already been tabled at that time. On 14 July 2020, last Tuesday, we held the discussion and voted on the proposal. As I said, there were amendments by Mrs Merckx who wanted to extend the allowance in the cost of contraception to women of all ages. There were also amendments by Ecolo-Green, which also aimed at removing the age limit of 25 years and extending the allowance to all women. Mrs Tillieux wanted to go one step further than the previous authors and had the aim of making the contraception accessible to men. Mrs Van Hoof had a number of technical amendments. I can say that we have discussed this constructively. In the end, Mrs Van Hoof's technical amendments were approved. The amendments tabled by Mrs Merckx, Mrs Schlitz and Mrs Tillieux have either been rejected or have been rejected. I would also like to stress that in the first round of votes, when Amendment No 1 was adopted. 5 by Mrs Schlitz was rejected, the discussion was reopened as Mrs Schlitz requested. New amendments were then tabled with the aim of raising the current age limit of 25 to 35 years. I'd like to think about that. The way in which Mrs Schlitz's amendments have been dealt with by a number of Members raises questions about the substance of the debate. We did not really have the chance to examine these amendments, because there was absolutely no need to vote. An in-depth debate, requested by some at the beginning of our afternoon meeting on a subject in the same atmosphere, was apparently less relevant to the proposal before us. I realize, Mr President, that this last point is entirely on my mind and may not be part of the report anymore, but I wanted to say it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u146	Mr President, the two proposals are very close to each other: the joint consideration of both proposals is therefore not a problem for me, even if there is a difference in nuance for women's lives. By the way, I note with regard to patients that there is a big difference between the emergency pill and the contraceptive pill, physical, hormonal and long-term. Our group will certainly support both proposals, i.e. both the proposal on emergency contraception and the proposal on extending the reimbursement of contraception for women with increased benefits. I will start with the proposal on emergency contraception. Emergency contraception has already been repaid. However, we noticed that the threshold for young girls and also vulnerable women was quite high, because the amount of the emergency pill has to be advanced. It appears that around 180,000 emergency contraceptive pills are distributed every year through the pharmacies, while only a fraction is recovered through the health insurance funds. So there is a threshold. With the proposal before us, we will remove that threshold and take a step in the right direction. Given the fine-meshed network of around 4,800 pharmacies in our country, given that pharmacies are open 24 hours a day and pharmacists will provide expert scientific advice to whom the emergency contraceptive pill is obtained and the care provided is very low-threshold, the pharmacy is therefore called in in the first line. In the context of unwanted pregnancies, I think that is absolutely justifiable. The registration by the pharmacist is also very important. In future, when a woman takes an emergency pill, the pharmacist and the general practitioner have a tool, a means to talk about safer contraception than the occasional emergency pill, which is a hormone bomb in the woman's body. My group is therefore absolutely in favour of the proposal, especially since it will allow us to look together with women at a structural contraceptive policy, avoiding the need for an emergency pill. If the emergency pill is necessary, it will be refunded. I now come to the next bill. We read in all possible reports that it is not always obvious for vulnerable women to pay contraception. This has been the subject of recommendations. Now, when the law comes, we can deliver conception for free or at a very feasible price. As far as the amendments are concerned, we are not going along with the amendment that seeks to extend the scheme to all women, nor with the amendment that applies it to women up to 35 years old. If the scheme is extended to include women up to 35 years old, it costs 20 million and this will increase to 37 million for all women.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u147	Mr President, I would like to make a correction. Indeed, the figures I have given in the emergency do not mention a sum of 20 million, but an amount of between 11 and 20 million. I therefore hope that this clarification will be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u148	I will repeat what I said: up to EUR 20 million. That is exactly what the figures communicated say, so I do not see why this intervention was necessary. It is therefore up to EUR 37 million or up to EUR 20 million when it comes to women up to 35 years. As I said, our group has nothing in principle against this proposal, absolutely nothing, but the needs of health care are very great. Our group therefore proposes that we look at whether the needs lie with women who do not have increased benefits, with women who can actually pay the EUR 2 per month in order to finance the contraception themselves. We think that the debate should first look at the social dimension of women's problems. Furthermore, in the context of all health care needs, we would much prefer to participate in a major debate in which we effectively give pharmacists the means to promote compliance. One of the major problems with the use of contraception is that compliance is not guaranteed. That is scientifically proven, so can we not invest much better in it and thus generate resources? Can we not give the house pharmacist the means to do medical review or medication control and thus generate resources? When that whole exercise has happened, you absolutely have a partner in us. I would like to refer to one last element: the possibility for the doctor to prescribe generic contraception, which is paid back for women over 25 years of age. If we are to develop a vision of contraception and medication, we must go far more scientifically and well-founded than this proposal to rapidly integrate women up to 35 years of age and rapidly extend them to all women, while we know very well from reports that the category of women we have to work with is women who benefit from increased benefits and who need the help we offer them today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u149	Mr. Chairman, Ecolo-Groen will support these two bills that help improve and modernize our sexual and reproductive health policies. These measures are in the right direction. We have supported the text in committee and will support it today. As Mrs Jiroflée said in her report, we also had a bill to extend the specific assistance of INAMI to all women. The reason why these bills were introduced more or less simultaneously is that we received the report from the GVI Evaluation Commission, which made a series of recommendations. This was in some way a transposition of these recommendations into legislation. This evaluation committee has taught us a lot of things, especially that financial accessibility remains a problem for many women. According to a report by Solidaris, one in ten women do not take contraceptives because of their high cost. That is one of the reasons why we tabled this bill, which we then translated into amendments on Mrs Van Hoof's proposal. In the course of the discussions, the discussions did not take place in depth, as we would have liked. Some people are asking for time to properly analyze legislative proposals, but here it is rather in haste that this has been done. We are in favour of moving forward quickly on this type of matter, but it is a bad trial to tell Ecolo-Groen that we want to go out of the way with our proposed amendments to go from 25 to 35 years, when these conditions have been imposed on us in some way by the members of the committee. At the time when we wanted to table our amendments, there was a desire not to delay the vote on the text, since we did not have a financial analysis to go to 35 years of age. We agreed not to delay the work and it was suggested that we come back to plenary with our amendments and get a financial opinion within 24 hours, which we did. It would therefore be interesting to acknowledge the good will of our group to have tabled these amendments, following the positive reactions of the members of the committee, while having the documents requested in support. It is important to recall these different elements. In the beginning, we were rather committed to extending the specific intervention to all women, because it seems to us that it is an issue of equity. It is women who assume the mental and physical responsibility for contraception. We would like them to be able to no longer bear the financial burden that men do not assume. This seems to us to be an important issue of equity in society between men and women. The challenge of the 35-year-old remains a pragmatic one. The average age of women using GVI was 28.5 years in 2017. In the last report of the National Commission for the Evaluation of Pregnancy Interruptions, which I mentioned just before, it can be observed that age groups 25-29 and 30-34 are the most affected by abortion. In 2017, we were over 8,000 out of a total of about 17,000. Rather, this rate tends to rise. In 2006, there were only 7,000 out of 17,000 abortions. As the overall figures decline, this age group is somewhat ignored in public policies and awareness-raising campaigns. The experts who came to present the various reports really stressed the need to pay specific attention to the 25-34 age group. That is why we believe it is important to focus primarily on this age group. If Parliament did not wish to extend it to all women, it would be a matter of focusing on the 25-34 year olds, hence the interest and importance of our amendments. There were two, three little pragmatic additional arguments. Firstly, the experts of the Evaluation Commission have never recommended extending this specific status to BIM women, but to all women of a specific age group, if it could not be extended to all. I think it's still interesting to follow up on what the IVG Evaluation Board recommends, because if not, I wonder why it might be useful to bring them in, to listen to them, to ask so many questions so as not to follow their recommendations in the wake. I think it's important. A second element is the continuity of health care. When you work with a contraceptive that fits you well and simply because you would change your age range from 24 to 25, you would no longer be able to get the same reimbursements as before and you would have to change your contraceptive to a free generic or medication. From this point of view, it really seems to me important to be able to ensure continuity of health care for all women. That is why we have tabled these amendments. I come to another technical element which concerns the budget estimate. This is about 11 to 20 million euros so that it can be extended to all women up to the age of 35. In this case, BIM women, of all ages, would automatically have benefited from the specific reimbursement, since we are simply completing the bill. The costs for BIM women must therefore still be deducted from these EUR 11 to 20 million. This amendment is therefore even less costly than the estimate made by INAMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u150	I'd like to read something in fact from the report. Colleague, you say that there is no advice on women in need. On page 9, however, it is very clearly stated that the RIZIV is in force for at least the most deprived women, the cost of the consultation, the social third-payer rule, the contraceptive and, above all, the long-term contraception should be directly compensated. That recommendation is therefore indeed there, my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u151	The recommendation concerning the extension of the specific reimbursement speaks well of all women and, if not possible, of women up to the age of 35. It's written black and white in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not surprise you by saying that, for my group, the right of women to dispose of their bodies is fundamental. And we are multiplying the fight to strengthen and bring this right high and strong, calling for the delay to be allowed to resort to a voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG) by demanding that this act be decriminalized, that it be considered as a medical act in its own right, but also by putting on the table measures aimed at improving women's access to contraceptives. Thus, under the previous legislature, we defended and obtained the extension of free contraception for women up to 25 years old and for the pill of the next day to all women, regardless of their age, while, until then, contraception and the pill of the next day were free only until 21 years old. This was a good step forward, although, as my group had said at the time, access to contraception and thus full health care coverage should, in our view, be extended to all women. Today, we want to take an additional step in terms of financial accessibility for women to emergency contraception. The next day's pill can now be delivered without a prescription by the pharmacist. The pharmacies have also put in place a specific protocol to regulate the delivery of this pill and to accompany the person who will use it at best. There are currently two cases: either the person has a prescription and the third-party fee can be applied to him or her and he or she will not have to pay anything, especially if it is the cheapest pill; or the person has no prescription and must advance the amount of the pill and then transmit the document provided by the pharmacist to his or her mutuality to obtain, in a second step, the refund. That's where it's stuck. We realize that many women do not have this prescription because they do not want to go to the doctor, or perhaps they cannot. Moreover, having to introduce a reimbursement document from mutuality can be a complicated process for some of them, especially the younger ones, who would like to be able to buy this pill the next day anonymously, without their relatives being informed. For us, it is important to remove this last barrier to the financial accessibility of the next day's pill. Thus with the adoption of the text, the pharmacist will be able to deliver the next day's pill by applying the paid third party whether or not the person presents himself with a prescription in the official. Women will no longer have to advance the amount of the next day's pill, if it is the cheapest, of course. And they will no longer have to make representations to their mutuality. For us, this text is an additional step towards better access to emergency contraception, better prevention of unwanted pregnancies and a better guarantee for women to have their bodies. This is one of the measures to ensure that all women are truly emancipated. Our colleagues in the CD&V and CDH, who finally, after all the progress we have been able to make, have, in turn, tabled a text in favour of the emancipation of women, in favour of better access to contraception for women by extending the control of contraception for all women benefiting from the increased intervention (BIM). We welcome this and have, of course, supported the text without ambiguity, Mr President! Even if I said at the beginning of the intervention, we would have liked to go further by extending the target group even further, particularly on the basis of the recommendations of the Evaluation Commission for the IVG, we have just talked about it. In addition, we had introduced amendments to allow for the management of male contraception. For, for us, contraception is everyone's business: both women and men. It is time to change attitudes, to stop putting the weight of the mental burden of contraception on women's shoulders alone. No, male condoms are not just ways to prevent sexually transmitted diseases or infections. No! It is also a means of preventing unwanted pregnancies. Let's get back to the fundamentals! That's it, too! We have heard in the committee that this debate should perhaps be referred back to the Communities for their preventive powers. Ah be tens! The female pill would be developed at the federal level, but male contraception would suddenly become a prevention and, therefore, discussed at the Community level. I am sorry, but I think we need to have some consistency in this Parliament and talk here about the means of contraception for both women and men. Yes! It is necessary to talk about it, to promote it and to think about the accessibility of contraception declined to the male, so that responsibility can be shared in a couple. The debate must open, but it is true that in the light of the reactions to our amendments tabled for access to male contraception, it is clear that the debate is not ripe! We will never stop putting it back on the table, because mentalities must change. Contraception is everyone's business: women and men. We have to look at it, because it is a real choice of society. Male contraception, if still relatively few practiced and widespread, apart from condoms, can really be used in alternation with female contraception and it would allow the sharing of responsibilities and risks. It is really a factor of equality between women and men. In short, it is the case of two partners. These advances have not yet been possible. Let us hope that our discussions will move the debate forward and that it will soon be reopened. Finally, I would like to recall the way in which, suddenly, the authors of the text wanted to speed up the legislative process of their proposal. While the text was adopted yesterday in committee, it had to be absolutely inscribed today, we had to hurry to plenary to see the text. Mr President, as my colleague, Mrs Jiroflée, has already said, this is really a double standard with another dossier on which all sorts of manoeuvres could be used in plenary. But why would we have been obstructed? I'm asking you. Why would we have been obstructed to discuss a text before the parliamentary holidays, when we were clearly in a position to do so? Why would we have done anything to delay this vote in plenary, when we had the serious means to do so? The answer is simple: because we are sincerely in favour of improving women's rights and we will do everything we can to make it happen. That'll be the end word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, invented in 1956 and legalized much later, the contraceptive pill revolutionized the lives of women and our society as a whole. We, the women of 2020, despite our debates, despite our differences, have a chance that our grandmothers and great-grandmothers have not known: freedom, emancipation, the choice to separate sexuality and conception, the chance not to live in anguish every month. It is a reality that is not so far away. Sixty years later, it remains essential to be able to make contraceptives as accessible as possible. The text of Mrs Tillieux and the text of Mrs Van Hoof and Mrs Fonck are important because they are both aimed at improving the financial accessibility of contraception. The first text deals more specifically with emergency contraception. The second is more general. While it is true that emergency contraception is free of charge, the majority of the following day's pills that are delivered are not delivered through the mechanism of the paying third party. Women are therefore forced to advance the amount covered by the mutual fund. The purpose of this proposal is to allow pharmacists to apply the fee-paying third party in a pharmacy. Thus, women will no longer have to pass the certificate on to their mutuals before they are reimbursed. Research shows that women from the lowest income groups make the most use of the emergency pill. For these women, the price is an obstacle. Improving financial access to the emergency pill will lower the threshold for many women in financial difficulties. It is also inconceivable that women cannot afford emergency contraception in 2020 and therefore take the risk of unwanted pregnancy for granted. Better access to this form of contraception may prevent unwanted pregnancies and thus pregnancy discontinuation. A 2017 study shows that 52% of pregnancies among girls between 17 and 20 years of age are not planned. In relation to the second text, we consider it very important to make contraceptives as accessible as possible. It is indeed necessary to keep the use of contraceptives as low as possible. In fact, many measures have been taken recently to improve the reimbursement and accessibility of contraceptives. A budget of almost 7 million euros has been made available and included in the 2019 healthcare budget. The government can now intervene in the reimbursement of a large number of contraceptives. Moreover, since 1 April 2020 many contraceptives have been free for women under 25 years of age, on presentation of the identity card and in the pharmacy. Women under the age of 25 are also entitled to an increased allowance from the RIZIV. The RIZIV reimburses 3 euros per month for the pill, the contraceptive patch, the vaginal ring, the hormonal implant and the spiral. All the measures taken with regard to the cost of contraception that I have wished to recall with a view to a more comprehensive context have the same objective: to provide women with the best possible access to contraception, given the difficult situations for some women because of its price, which we obviously cannot accept. The purpose of the adoption of the bill is to extend the benefit of a specific intervention to women entitled to increased intervention. We are convinced that this text, which should ensure better access to contraceptives, will help to avoid unwanted pregnancies that could lead to abortions in these disadvantaged women. The various measures taken recently are constantly expanding the target groups with regard to the accessibility of contraceptives, and this is an excellent thing. However, in response to Ms Merckx, who wished to go further, it seemed appropriate to take stock and assess the effectiveness of the last steps taken in order to be able to adjust them subsequently. I would remind you that we do not exclude taking stock; the question must be studied. I have one comment to make about the target group of 25-34: why is the answer the refund and not the awareness? Why does this particular group not opt for contraceptives if they can afford it? In my view, this issue is more complex than the only aspect of reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u154	Mr President, I too would like to say a few words about the good proposal made by colleagues from the PS. If it's okay, we'll say it. In fact, this proposal is coming forward more quickly than foreseen in plenary today. It was only discussed in committee last week. We have no objection to this because it was adopted unanimously and has a great deal of support, which makes it easy to discuss today, contrary to everything about the termination of pregnancy. It is a bit contradictory that you, like us, stand up for good access to contraception, but that on the other hand the new law on pregnancy break-up says that there should be no information on this. I still do not understand why this is being removed from the law and why it is not being explicitly stated, including to abortion centres, that good information should be provided. This is particularly important for vulnerable women who do not have access to that information. However, we support this proposal at 100%. Especially for underage girls or young women who are still dependent on a parent, it is not evident today to go to the pharmacy and to establish afterwards that the reimbursement is visible on the overview that parents receive from the sickness funds. That's often a psychological threshold for young girls to get the morning-after pill. That is why I think this is a very good proposal and a good rescue to help prevent unwanted pregnancy. The introduction of a third-payer scheme, as proposed by colleagues of the PS, removes this threshold. This means that women only have to pay the brake money, according to the system that was well explained by Mr Tillieux, so that this does not appear afterwards on the overview that parents receive from the sickness funds. I think it is a good thing, both psychologically and financially, to remove these thresholds through this bill. These two factors are equally important. That is why we will fully support this proposal. As far as my own bill is concerned, prevention is indeed better than cure. Once again, this is a proposal that was unanimously adopted in committee yesterday, so there was no threshold for discussing it in plenary today. This is important for socio-economically vulnerable women who have more difficult access to contraception for financial reasons. These financial resources are an important threshold for them. That link was also explicitly laid out in the recent report of the National Evaluation Committee for Pregnancy Abruption. Mrs Schlitz is giving a different lecture than Mrs Depoorter and myself. Let me quote again: 'The RIZIV should at least pay directly for the most deprived women the costs of consultation, contraception and, first and foremost, long-term contraception'. This bill responds to that. We have also requested a budgetary estimate from the RIZIV. The increase in the specific allowance would cost EUR 3 to 4.3 million per year. I think this is important and proportionate. These are vulnerable women, who still have far too little access to contraception. It is about giving these women autonomy over their fertility and better guidance to prevent unwanted pregnancy. As a Parliament, we have to work step by step and, above all, we have to weigh expenditure well in relation to what we will achieve with it. As a Parliament, we must be responsible for spending additional resources. Care isn't free. Someone has to pay for it. That may be the government, but for vulnerable groups we must provide for an exception. That's what we do for young women. In the past we have done so for women under 25 years of age and regardless of the age for the morning-after pill. We will now also do it for vulnerable women, low-income women or benefits. Today we have done the same, with the proposal of the PS, for women who see in the pharmacy a threshold for getting the morning-after pill. I think that's a good exception. We must also finance all the extra expenditure that we decide in Parliament. We must therefore set priorities. For me, vulnerable women and their access are a priority. You would like to refer to the report of the National Evaluation Committee, which says that contraception should also be free for women up to 35 years of age, but the Evaluation Committee also says that a specific approach and sensitisation is needed for women over 25 years of age. You can read that on page 4. So we have to work step by step and first raise awareness before throwing the money. Before getting extra EUR 20 million for women who do not have financial thresholds, we need to ask the Länder to make this awareness a reality. I would like to hear Mr Depooster say that it is about 2 euros a month, but there is often a problem with therapy. Contraception is often also used incorrectly. That is where the biggest problems lie for women who do have the resources. It is about good use and guidance and sensitisation. This is primarily a matter for the Länder, and that is where this has to be discussed, not in this Parliament. Good policy requires adapted solutions for specific groups. For women in financial difficulties, regardless of their age, we are removing the financial thresholds. I did find this an urgent matter. I hope you will support this in the vote tomorrow. Thank you for your support in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u155	Mr President, we will support these two legislative proposals today. The first PS bill ensures that the morning after pill will be easier and cheaper, to even free available. The CD&V Bill ensures that the scheme that is now valid for up to 25 years and makes certain pills and spirals free is applied to all women who benefit from increased benefits. Access to contraception for women is closely linked to the debate we have had over the last few weeks and months on abortion. We all know that contraception doesn't work at 100 percent. For example, the World Health Organisation calculated that 5.9 million unwanted pregnancies would be prevented every year if the contraception were taken fully well. On the other hand, contraception is, of course, one of the most important methods available to women to control their fertility. A woman can get pregnant an average of 400 times in her life, although she usually only wants one to two children. Keeping fertility under control is a lot of work, not only mentally, but also financially a big burden. If we make it much cheaper, or make certain contraception free for all women, as with the amendment we have tabled, it will cost 26 to 37 million euros per year. That's what women pay today to control their fertility. I would like to come back to the recommendations of the IVG Assessment Commission. First, they suggest making contraceptives more accessible to the poorest women. Secondly, they are entitled to benefits up to the age of at least 35 years. At last, ideally, no woman should advance money, no matter how old she is. Tomorrow, at the time of the vote, you will have the choice: either you opt for the minimum minimorum - measure applicable up to 35 years - or you follow the recommendation until the end. Everyone is concerned about the decline in the number of abortions in our country. It is not for nothing that the evaluation report on abortion largely refers to access to contraception. In this sense, you will be able to vote in favour of our amendment, which proposes it to all women. The cost may be between EUR 26 and 37 million, but I would like to point out that the adoption of this provision can change the amount of the requirements. Indeed, some contraceptives would then become free. With this shift, women could turn to cheaper methods. In any case, this is just a suggestion. Finally, I do not understand why the parties who talk about preventing unwanted pregnancies do not want to invest in them. I do not think that is coherent. If we can effectively ensure that contraception is completely free for women, we can reduce the number of abortions. That's less suffering for women. I think all women are entitled to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for sp.a, all women have the right to contraception, not only to avoid pregnancies or abortions, as Mrs Merckx has just said, but above all because we think that we should see this much wider, especially because every woman has the right to decide when to become pregnant or not, and in that sense remains in charge of her own body and her own life. Of course, this reasoning applies equally to very young women, young girls and also to women living in deprived conditions, women in financial difficulties, vulnerable women. In this sense, we believe that both legislative proposals, as they stand, are a good thing. By the way, they're also from Sensoa's memorandum. They were also on our election program. We are therefore firmly going to support both these proposals, both those of the PS and those of Mrs Van Hoof of CD&V. I also hope, however, that we can all look at some of the amendments that will be put to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u157	Mr President, a number of comments have been made on the attitude of a number of parties to contraception and abortion. I would like to mention a number of things that you really overlook in your speech. This is about enlargement to all women. You say that this measure may make doctors more inclined to go to cheaper contraception or refunded or generic contraception. Then why don't they do that today? We all voted the pharmaceutical bill. We have all voted in favour of promoting generic medicines. That's perfect today. In addition, when a refunded contraceptive is prescribed, it is still included in the maximum invoice. So this plea doesn't make any sense. We can perfectly give a ratio to women through refunded contraception to monitor their fertility in a responsible way, when they have no increased benefit, when they are not already in that segment of very vulnerable women. You mentioned the ideal world. Of course, we are in the ideal world partner to fully repay contraception. However, I have drawn your attention to the reality of the budgets and the needs of health care, which everyone in the committee is talking about. At the latest, I haven't met many women with 400,000 children. Please let us keep the debate scientifically correct. Of course, a woman must have the opportunity to do birth control, but let us not exaggerate. At the moment, any woman can obtain 2 euros or less of a contraceptive. That's all that matters. We've taken big steps here. What's in the report is true. It is a roadmap, but today we are taking a very big step forward, a step forward towards emergency contraception and a step forward towards vulnerable women. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u158	Mrs Depoorter, I find it a little absurd that you should drag that 400,000 times into the ludicrous. It is true that women have to take that into account. It is also logical that women can have an accident once if they can become pregnant 400,000 times in a lifetime. It is quite logical that Mrs Schlitz should emphasise this. I fully agree that this is a heavy responsibility. That is also why we look at pregnancy termination in a different way. We think women can have an accident before. Apparently, they're infallible to you. I'd love to leave you in your beautiful world at the top of your mountain. Come downstairs. Maybe you'll see the real world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u159	Mr President, I would like to speak, as my colleague has just done, about the reference to the IVG law that it is no longer a question of contraception. When a woman comes for an interruption of pregnancy, the situation is such that it is not time to talk about contraception. Then, of course, yes. As part of the follow-up, of course. But talking to a woman about contraception when she comes for an interruption of pregnancy is absurd and it does not correspond to the reality of the field. I wanted to make that point in order to avoid letting anyone believe anything. If the text is discussed today in plenary, it is because, contrary to the text on IVG, it has been unanimously approved, it is because we are thinking of the general interest, we are thinking of the rights of these women and not of the ideology of party presidents or of other ideologies such as that of bishops or the Vatican.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u160	Mrs Depoorter also wants to say something, and then you want to interrupt all three. It's only 1:00! Anyway, let's go back to the list. The comments seem to be fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u161	I don't think you're consistent. You have blocked the entire Parliament from the abortion law, because abortion is so terrible, but if there is a proposal here to invest several million dollars to potentially reduce the number of abortions, then suddenly you are no longer there. That's what I was gonna say. (Conversation on the banks)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u162	I find the M.O. infallible. Kind of childish, isn't it? Please continue, Mrs. Depoorter. Don't hold back. The value of the speeches increases by the minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u163	It is absolutely important, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u164	For yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u165	I think it's important to every woman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u166	Mrs Van Hoof, the Rules of Procedure do not provide that ad vitam aeternam ping-pong can continue to be played. I can't. Otherwise, you may take my place here; I am applying the Rules of Procedure as it should be applied. There is a general discussion and there is a right to interrupt to ask a question, but now they are organizing rounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u167	Mr President, these are two personal facts to which I would very much like to respond. It is even a matter of fairly scientific facts. The honourable Member states that we are not consistent, but we are consistent because we follow reasoned recommendations. We also call for the evaluation of laws that are already in force. We use public resources to act effectively scientificly and evidence-based. I would like to return to the point made by my colleague, who has put me on a mountain. Colleague, I've been seeing 100 women every day for 20 years. You really don't have to tell me how to communicate with women and what a woman's responsibility is for her medical record. What I say comes straight from practice, my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u168	If things are said that we do not agree with, we are allowed to react and the President is not allowed to take sides. He has to allow the debate. In any case, we are accused of listening to the bishops, but we are talking about vulnerable women. 70% of women who commit abortion do not use contraception or contraception in the wrong way. Is it then abnormal to inform them of this when they have an abortion or immediately afterwards? There is an information service available. Then why should they not be informed? That is precisely supporting vulnerable women, and you do not want to do that. I am always surprised that you are talking about vulnerable women, except when it comes to ethical issues. Then the bar goes all the way down. That really bothers me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u169	I'm making another attempt to end the general discussion. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u170	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1057/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1057/3) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 16 September 2013 laying down a specific intervention in the cost of contraceptives for women who have not reached the age of 25 in order to increase the financial accessibility of women using emergency contraception". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft amending the Royal Decree of 16 September 2013 establishing a specific concession in the cost of contraception for women under 25 years of age in order to make emergency contraception more financially accessible to women'. The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u171	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u172	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1064/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1064/5) The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 16 September 2013 laying down a specific intervention in the cost of contraceptives for women who have not reached the age of 25, with a view to extending the benefit of the specific intervention in the cost of contraceptives to women benefiting from increased intervention". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft amending the Royal Decree of 16 September 2013 establishing a specific concession in the cost of contraception for women under 25 years of age in order to extend the specific concession for contraception to women with increased benefits'. The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u173	• Sofie Merckx (1064/6) Annex V.Part • 25.................................................................................................................................................... • 22 – Sarah Schlitz cs (1064/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u174	• 26... Sofie Merckx (1064/6) Annex V.Part • Sofie Merckx (1064/6) Inscription - Intitulé • Sofie Merckx (1064/6) • Sofie Merckx (1064/6) • Sofie Merckx (1064/6) • Sofie
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u175	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u176	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u177	Article adopted by article: 1 and 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u178	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u179	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Tim Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u180	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just now the Committee on the Interior met to see Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 3 by Mr Francken and Mrs Van Camp and Mrs Safai on the bill you mentioned by Mr Vandenput. I will give a brief oral report. Mr Francken motivates his amendment as follows. Law of 6 May 2009 laying down various provisions on asylum and migration, last amended by Law of 26 December 2013, provides for a temporary increase in the framework of the Judges of the Council for Foreign Disputes for a period of two years, once renewable. During the previous period of government, the framework of the Court of Justice of the Council of Foreign Ministers was again extended from 32 to 54 judges, in order to eliminate the Council's delay as quickly as possible. The new extension of the establishment plan for judges was re-registered for a period of two years, ending on 31 August 2020, which also explains the urgency of the measure. With Amendment No. 2 The PS fraction wanted to replace the words 'for a period of two years' with 'for a period of two years'. As a result, the extension of the framework of judges threatened to become permanent, which was not the intention of the legislator. The legislator always wanted to allow enlargement in order to eliminate the backlog and temporarily make additional staff available to the Council for a period of two years. At the hearing of the Internal Affairs Commission on 14 July 2020, the first President of the Council argued that the temporary period of two judicial years could be increased to three judicial years. He estimated that in a period of three legal years a delay in the handling of the files could be eliminated into a normal working stock. Thus, in two years' time, the law did not have to be amended again. The extension had therefore to be valid for a period of three judicial years and not for a period of two years. In the latter case, the extension is likely to become an automatic one. Mr Francken's amendment confirms the extension of the existing framework with a new period of three judicial years from 1 September 2020. Another important argument for the regulation proposed in the amendment is, in addition to removing the outstanding cases, also to respect justice within a reasonable time and to better guarantee the unity of justice. Mr Rigot of the PS underlined that it was never the intention of the PS Group to register a permanent extension of the framework. On behalf of his group, the speaker declares the ratio legis of Amendment No 2 to the motion for a resolution. 3. At all costs, it should be avoided that the temporary enlargement of the framework would suddenly be reversed by 31 August 2020, although the legal delay has still not been resolved. Mr Segers of the sp.a first expressed his regret at the committee's work. However, he underlined the importance of what was proposed in the amendment. Removing the legal backlog and respecting a reasonable period of time are important. In addition, the speaker in the hearing with the first president remembers that it is not the intention to move towards a very large court, but rather to a college that can be extended temporarily by intermediate stages. On the French-speaking side, the cancellation contentieux would still pose problems, but by 2022-2023 it should be possible to eliminate the backlog. Amendment No. 3 which seeks to replace the text of Article 55 of Mr Vandenput's legislative proposal in its entirety, is adopted by nine votes in favour and three abstentions. The draft law, as amended, is adopted by a vote of name by ten votes in favour, namely of the N-VA, PS, MR, CD&V, Open Vld and sp.a and two abstentions by the members of the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u182	Thank you for your report, Mrs Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to be brief. You said it: we move forward within hours, but each text has its importance. This text was undoubtedly important. I will make a small reminder of the genesis of this text which arrived in committee a few days ago. This was Belgium's obligation to transpose the European directive under penalty of heavy penalties. Just a small remark: it is, to say the least, challenging that it is a parliamentary initiative that addresses the government's lack of responsiveness in such a matter. It is a technical issue, which was to be the subject of a bill, and it is a parliamentary initiative that fills this gap. I would stress that this was also the responsibility of the previous government. But let us turn to these introductory remarks. The main thing now is that we have supported this text. We will support him again tomorrow. On the one hand, the financial consequences of the lack of response had to be avoided, and on the other hand, as I am going to mention, it also provided an answer to an urgent need. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we abstained on article 11. The objective of this article is to make a clear distinction between economic and non-economic migration. We can hear that. But for my group, it is quite counterproductive to apply for a single permit and to be penalized if we have also applied for a residence for any other reason. Three reasons for this: first, because a person's situation with regard to access to employment has absolutely no influence on any other request for access to the territory. Secondly, we still have to be consistent. We cannot at the same time give credence to the discourses which make applicants a burden for the State and, on the other hand, not reduce their access to work which would make them not a burden for the State, but an added value, by contributing to its functioning and economic development. The proposed amendment, Tertio, would require regular residents to leave the territory in order to obtain a work permit. It is obviously an administrative burden. It does not seem efficient or effective to me. This may even be counterproductive since this heaviness could lead to more irregular situations than is the case today. In conclusion, we will come back to the amendments that have been discussed again today. We are satisfied above all, and above all, that we have been able to respond to an urgent, urgent need when time was high. The deadline was 31 August. That need was the need to preserve the framework of the Litigation Council. I would like to stress the constructive framework, despite some of the less positive comments made during the committees, but constructive work has been done to maintain the temporary framework of the Foreign Litigation Council. We heard from the President of this Council last June during the hearings on the VOCID-19 crisis, but also this week. He stressed the importance for him of maintaining this framework in order to be able to render decisions over time and eliminate the backlog. We proposed a path, which was supported in committee a few days ago. Today, it is a new path that has found a majority to support another option. All right! This option seemed less strong, less solid, but be it! We did not object, because the objective has been achieved. That is the essential thing. The number of judges will be maintained. They will be able to make judgments in the interests of everyone, both applicants and the Belgian State. This is important for us too, since, if the judgments are delivered quickly, there is no backlog, there is no saturation of the reception network, so there is no need to create additional places. We will, of course, be attentive to the evolution of this backlog, to the changing needs of the Aliens Litigation Council. But we are in any case satisfied with the answer that has been given today. Colleagues, it's late tonight. This will probably be my last speech in this parliamentary session, which I was pleased to share with all of you. I want to thank you for your work. Thank you too, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to all the staff who allow us to operate under the best conditions. Good evening to all of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u184	Mr President, we are discussing a legislative proposal, but it actually comes back from the cabinet. It is a pity in itself that Minister De Block is not present. By the way, is there anyone else in the government here? Isn't it an obligation for someone from the government to be present? When I was Secretary of State, it was an obligation that someone from the government should always be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u185	We can ask if anyone's coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u186	Mrs. De Block in that case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u187	Do you want us to request Mrs. De Block at this hour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u188	I've never seen it before. In my day it was the duty of being present, even though it was until 7:00 in the morning. There was a turn. It has nothing to do with majority or minority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u189	You don't have to explain the system to me. If no one asks, it's not the issue. If you say that Mrs De Block has to come here now, I will move on to item 16 on the agenda and we will stop this item.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u190	My question is whether there is anyone from the government present. It's about a turn. So someone must have been appointed to be here today. But that person won't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u191	Then we'll stop this point for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u192	That's fine with me. I still have the last proposal on China, so I'll be here for hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u193	I have every respect for Mr Francken asking for someone from the government to be present, but I would like to speak now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u194	I understand that you would like to speak, but Mr Francken starts and asks if there is anyone from the government. There is indeed a turn role. One can ask the Minister responsible, but it is customary for a minister to be on guard when discussing an agenda. If a Member asks for it to be present, I can have it contacted, and the discussion cannot continue for the time being. So we can't say you can come in and wait for someone else. It's one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u195	There were only two Members present just now. Then you said that you would let Mr Rigot speak first, then myself. Then you let Mr Francken go first. I don't want to make a fuss about it, but I can sit here and wait a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u196	I did indeed just start with Mr Rigot in order to move things forward. It's currently 01.11 a.m. Is this how we're gonna make life difficult for each other?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u197	I'm just asking for the presence of someone from the government. That is a matter of respect for Parliament. The government has no majority. It is the last sitting of Parliament. Is it so much to ask to be present?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u198	Then I will stop the discussion of this proposal for the time being and start discussing the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr De Maegd and his associates on the capacity compensation mechanism for electricity in relation to the aspects of transparency, cost, financing and notification to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u199	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Michel De Maegd, Benoît Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u200	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1220/6) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1220/6) The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the mechanism for the remuneration of electricity capacity with regard to transparency, cost, method of financing, functioning of the market and notification to the European Commission". The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the capacity compensation mechanism for electricity in terms of transparency, cost, financing, market functioning and notification to the European Commission." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u201	Mr President, in view of the late hour, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a little earlier than expected, but I am happy to fill in the time. Ladies and gentlemen, security of supply in this country is once again being discussed. We have been debating for a long time how the light will continue to burn. Today we do that again. The framework for the capacity mechanism, which we are discussing today, was already on the agenda here 15 months ago, but at that time there were many challenges and problems, in my group's view, clearly too many problems. There were huge gaps in that file, which meant that there was a huge threat over the heads of our families and companies, especially in terms of cost. At the same time, a number of things were simply passed on to another government, to the electricity consumer, to another minister, to a newly constituted parliament, and so on. That has, not by chance, led to the situation in which we have now arrived. Members of almost all parties have called for regular hearings, we have had debates on how the system should be designed, there have been a lot of questions about the effects on our families and businesses, in short, many questions. Cooperation between the government and Parliament was not always so optimal either. At the same time as one of our sessions hearings, the dossier appeared to be submitted to Europe. That's not exactly a ground for immeasurable trust. Next, the European Commission did not really want to take steps to deal with that dossier, pending its completion. We in the Chamber did not really fall back on that either, one would for less. I don't think I'm gonna tell you a secret either if I say that this was gonna be a file that no one could be proud of. On more than one occasion, I have had to establish this in the form of a question in plenary. This file was just jammed. Frankly, which of the Members of this House was willing to push such a dossier, a rotten rust bucket without brakes, without guarantees about the destination and certainly not about the driver who was supposed to be driving that game? It may be a rhetorical question, but I think that the rejection of the request for urgent procedure for the initial resolution had something to do with that. The motion for a resolution as it has been put forward would have solved the problem that had arisen perfectly, but the whole story was, of course, one of the concerns that there were about the capacity compensation mechanism itself, which was a bit of a work to be done. I took up my speech just over a year ago. That indeed contains a list of a number of problems with that dossier. Think of the high cost: 940 million euros per year. That's a lot more than was debated across the street when it came to the solar panels bill. Think of the lack of a view of a possible degressivity for our companies. Think of the choice of funding that simply wasn't there. What's the effect on the electricity bill? And so on. The motion for a resolution, in its present form, addresses a number of issues at the root. Many of my fellow Members have worked hard on this dossier, for which I thank you, because this has resulted in an alternative resolution, a text which has replaced both the title and the content of the resolution by means of a small amendment of about 17 pages, which I do not think is too much. This has made it very clear that Members of Parliament can absolutely do the work that was actually intended for the government. We have taken a step in this direction. The press was also particularly surprised at the fact that this result was built on a green-yellow tandem or ash. A certain newspaper thought that even bigger news than what was in the resolution, but this proves above all that, if a dossier contains enough food and drink for the whole hemisphere, effective steps can be taken forward. So I would like to thank Mr Van der Straeten and all the other colleagues who have contributed very hard to the resolution for the result. In this amended resolution, we have deployed on five blocks. We have looked at transparency, cost, financing, market forces and how we can ensure that the texts reach their destination, namely in the European Commission's dossier. I will not dwell on all the elements, but I will deal with the most important ones, even though it offers advantages in terms of speaking time over half an hour. As far as transparency is concerned, Parliament is asking very clearly to involve it in every possible step and to consult it so that it can be discussed. That was an important question from Parliament before, which was not always addressed. Parliament wants to be on the right track when it comes to implementation and implementation. Both Parliament and the Regions will also be involved in the story, if only to ensure that no megawatt gets into the system too much. After all, every megawatt has to be paid. By the way, the file does not leave here today to never return. It is to be feared that the opposite will be discussed regularly in our committee and we will be playing the ball there shortly. The cost is likely to be very high. The regulator already warned that it could reach more than 1 billion. Well, then that price should go down and with the motion for a resolution we are right to ask for the mechanism to be adjusted. We focus on many different issues that can play a role, such as the type of auction, effective control by the regulator, clear price limits in the file, sufficient room for demand management and allowing foreign capacity. Of course, as a Parliament, we also want the most accurate estimate of cost. Over the last few months and years, we have often debated whether it would cost 9 to 14 billion over the next 15 years. Once again the cost had to be calculated, then again the declared cost was not true, then again we had to wait for the result of the calculation and no one could tell exactly what it would cost now. Parliament is now asking very clearly what the potential will cost per year, if we do not compensate, because citizens and businesses have a right to know it. For funding, we must break a trend with the past. By looking not only at power, but also at consumption, consumers will have an impact on the energy market. This is especially necessary to monitor the energy bill. About every election programme announced energy standards and wanted to avoid the energy bill becoming even more a hidden tax letter than before. That's right. We have all pointed this out. But every time there was a debate on security of supply and the amounts to be charged to households and companies for electricity, they came up with the same recipes. Against measures to enable investment, energy bill measures were always counterweight. This has happened about every time, at all levels of policy, not only at the federal level, but also at the regional level. The invoice is always the easiest solution. Just look back at the Flemish and Belgian energy policy with the development of wind farms, the distribution of energy saving lamps, the support of biomass, the introduction of social tariffs, the introduction of social public service obligations, federal minimum prices for renewable sources, federal financing for offshore cables, strategic reserve. There's enough knowledge here in the room to triple that list. Each time a solution was sought through the electricity bill. This allowed us to be on stage as the third most expensive country after Denmark and Germany in terms of the household electricity bill at the end of 2019, according to Eurostat's figures. That's nothing to be proud of. The motion for a resolution quite clearly puts an end to this. The federal extra costs, which drive the bill down, have to drop. This is the principle that we are putting forward: anyone who wants to put more costs into it must take others out of it. Parliament is looking very clearly at the government for savings proposals with a view to degressivity for businesses. It also expects proposals for a different funding. These proposals are designed to improve the situation for every user in this country, whether it is about industry or a vulnerable family. From the N-VA group we have taken the liberty of making a small suggestion. There is a great way to reduce the costs of the whole system. We like to suggest that to the government, but also to colleagues. Extending the lifespan of two nuclear power plants is already an immediate drain on costs, and it can also provide the means to pay for the rest. It seems to us that this is a major saving spree, which we would very much like to add to the list that is still to be submitted to Parliament by the government. Finally, there is the market forces that we must not lose sight of. In terms of competition, it is important that it remains high and efficient. This is in the interests of competitive prices in our energy market, and that also benefits all consumers. The list contained in the resolution is, of course, much longer than this. With what we're putting on the table today, the capacity mechanism becomes a lot sharper. It drastically reduces costs and reduces additional costs on the energy bill. It gives Parliament every opportunity to exercise its control function. Here we are taking a giant step forward in that direction and finally closing the gate for increasing the energy bill, not just in this file, but in all the files that are still coming. We are clearly taking 2021 as a benchmark. Then it is quite clear that from then on the bill will have to fall, or at least the federal extra cost. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this story for this strong signal to Parliament. We are clearly taking this file into our hands, and we must. With the ashes between different Members of Parliament, we have made very clear where we want this minister and future ministers to go. I solemnly promised my group leader that I would no longer use the example of the guinea pig court. In any case, it is very clear where to land. We will closely monitor that. This file was under high voltage, which is the least we can say. Today we have an excellent basis for shaping our energy policy as we want it to be, namely without additional costs on the energy bill, with security of supply and with control that we will all very much like to exercise. As you may have pointed out from my speech, there is a good chance that our group will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u203	Mr President, Mr Wollants just said that this resolution indicates where we expect the Minister to go. That is not to this Parliament. That is clear, because the government is absent. You're the guardian of the works. What are the plowings about the presence of the government? Minister De Croo has spent much of the evening here. I have also mentioned Mrs Marghem, but in the meantime we have had to let a whole part of the debate go through without the government making any effort to be here. I find that rather problematic. I would therefore like to ask you what the relevant regulatory provisions are.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u204	Colleague De Roover, normally there is a minister of guard. In the government, it was agreed internally that each minister would deal with the issues relating to him or her. It is now a motion for a resolution. Mr De Croo was here when it came to a bill. On the previous point, a legislative proposal, the Minister was asked to be present. At the moment people are calling Mrs De Block to have her come here. We are now discussing a motion for a resolution. If approved, it shall be notified to the Government. If you tell us to stop the discussion until someone from the government arrives, I'll suspend the meeting. Or do you also ask the Minister responsible every time? There are proposals for a resolution which concern various members of the government. Is it the government that should be present or the competent minister every time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u205	I want to be particularly flexible in that, because it is 1.30 p.m. by now. I have a certain understanding of the fact that not all ministers are waiting for it to be up to them. I do not want to be keen on this, but that the whole government stays absent is an expression of disinterest, because a motion of resolution is addressed to the government. That means it would be nice for the government to take notice of it. I fully understand that a certain turn is being taken, otherwise the whole government will have to sit here in the wings and perhaps at this hour there will be more important things to do. I still find the government's complete absence problematic. I would appreciate it if he were here, so let us say that it is not always the minister concerned. I have every sympathy for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u206	With that nuance, I would have started with the next point. The previous point was a bill and before that they try to make contact with Minister De Block. Can we proceed with the motion for a resolution or do I suspend it until shortly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u207	If you say she'll be here in three minutes, then...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u208	I want to suspend the meeting, but I'm gonna take it back this night.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u209	Mr President, you put me in an awkward position because it gives the impression that I want to prolong the discussion, but it is actually the government that does that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u210	Mr De Roover, you have made your point. I understand what you're saying. As a result of the agreements, the Minister must be present for the discussion of point 16. They're trying to reach her now. The point we are discussing now is a resolution. Do you also ask for suspension until a member of the government is here? If that's your question, we'll suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u211	Mr. Chairman, you have shown common sense in reminding a minister of the government for the texts that require it. This is a motion for a resolution from Parliament, which sends a signal to the government. There is no need for a minister to be present for the debate on this proposal. We can move forward in the work, it seems to me that this is what the citizens expect from us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u212	That's your opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u213	Mr. President, that's my opinion and I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u214	Mr President, I was going to leave the debate. I hear Mr De Roover. I also hear Mr De Maegd, but I think he is inappropriate about this resolution. This is not just a resolution. It is a resolution in title, but it is a resolution that has come at the request of the government. The government has come to Parliament, to send the message to the committee but to have 38 Members' support, not to agree, not to know what to do in such a very important dossier because the light is threatening to go out. Please, Parliament, would you please record that file for us? The resolution is about unblocking the CRM. That had to happen very urgently before the recess, very important. We are now counting on the Minister to send that resolution. We could say the minister shouldn't be here. She didn't contribute much to the last piece of the puzzle in this file. Parliament has solved this. However, I believe that the Minister can take note of Parliament's considerations. We could be generous, because the Minister can also take note of the reports of this meeting and send them to the European Commission, but I would like the value of the resolution, of the agreement that has been reached here, to be appreciated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u215	Mr De Roover, if you have listened carefully to the intervention of your party colleague, you have heard that the Minister has often not given in this dossier at home. It's not illogical that she's not here. What I do think is less appropriate is that you leave Mr Wollants, who has given a very good speech on the CRM, to speak first and then to make this démarche. It would have been better to do that at first. We have worked with many colleagues on this text. I think everyone would like to make their say about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u216	Mr President, I see that it is a lot of fun for my colleagues, who have a smile to their ears. Personally, I'm not having fun with this flibus. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u217	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u218	I am talking about parliamentary work, Mrs Van der Straeten. I would simply like to say that the minister in charge of this matter has attended all the work in committee, here in this House, just a few days ago. I say well: to all the work. She followed everything. I don't see how to do all this cinema is constructive. Finally, that is my opinion; you do not have to share it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u219	Mr. Chairman, would I dare ask you if we have any news from any member of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u220	Not yet, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u221	I hear several questions, Mr Laaouej. One asks one member of the government, another asks the competent member of the government, another says that it should not really be for a motion of resolution, another says that it should be for everything. You just ask. At some point, I will ask you to put down a motion and then we will bring forward all the members of the government, if that motion has a majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u222	Mr President, if I may, we still have to stick to what the Rules of Procedure say. Article 50 of the latter refers to the presence of a member of the Government and not of a member of the Government concerned with the matter. Otherwise, imagine the situation we could face if we were to deal with a text while the minister is abroad. This means that consideration of the text should be deferred, although it may be urgent for it to be adopted. It would make no sense to ask for the presence of the minister in charge of the matter. That would be ideal, I do not disagree. But that would be a dangerous precedent. If the procedure is to be applied, let us apply Article 50 as a whole, which itself refers to Article 48. We didn't get out of the inn! I therefore propose a pragmatic approach by saying that we may soon have news from a member of the government and that we can move forward. But at this stage, I do not see the usefulness of suspending all our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u223	I am listening to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u224	Mr President, I have just spoken to Mr Clarinval, who is trying to find an available minister. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u225	Mr President, Mr De Maegd, I fully appreciate your position. It is not easy to defend that position and to see that the own resolution has been so strongly amended. That shouldn't be easy. You claim, however, that there is a filibuster here. Then you haven't experienced filibustering. I have seen this before, and that is a different matter from the current short debate on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to give you one more thing. Mr Dewael, in your capacity as President, you are the guardian of the Rules of Procedure. I used to be Secretary of State, and you called me once. So I know that you are very attentive to the fact that a member of the government is present during the discussion of legislative initiatives. I understand that this should be requested in writing for resolutions. Maybe we should sign a paper. That's the same thing. We can do that. In any case, for legislative initiatives, such as draft laws or legislative proposals, they must eventually come from the cabinet, but officially it is a legislative proposal, certainly a member of the government. We do insist on that, because it has always been so and because there are certain sensitivities. What Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten van Groen says is also right. After all, it is a very important dossier, covering hundreds of millions of euros and large investments for the coming years. If the proposal is effectively implemented, it would be a good thing that a member of the government is also present. The idea is that the government should take note of the report. None of the government reads those reports. After all, the ministers have very busy agendas. It is a very important point. The government has 38 seats, which means that it is a very minor government. It is what it is. It has full powers. However, the government can at least understand the essence of the fact that it must be present during a legislative discussion. From next week it will be done and Parliament's government will be freed. She'll be at ease for six weeks. Let's be honest. This is where the government must be represented. The members of the MR and of the Open Vld also consider that the government should be represented in the discussion. Otherwise we will have to continue with the agenda tomorrow after the topical questions and a member of the government may be present at that time. That's primary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add my voice to the argument that a member of the government should be present. I will suspend the meeting until a member of the government is here and then we will continue the work. Can we agree to that? The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u227	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u228	Colleagues, I welcome Minister De Block. Madam Minister, we started with item 15 on the agenda, but I put it aside because Mr Francken wanted a member of the government to be present. He referred to you in that regard. Then we started with the next point, which related to energy. I then confirmed to the Chamber that at least one member of the government had to be present. Mrs. Marghem is also on her way. As you are now present, we can raise item 15 again or continue the discussion of item 16.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u229	Mr President, since you had already opened the debate on paragraph 16 and Mr Wollants spoke, I am in favour of continuing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u230	All right, then we will continue the discussion of the motion for a resolution on the capacity compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u231	Forgive me, but we need a minimum of deference. We woke up two ministers and asked Mrs Marghem to come back from Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u232	Mrs. Marghem will be here in a quarter of an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u233	If Mrs De Block is present, would it not make sense to continue with the point that concerns her and to address point 16 once the minister concerned has arrived? It seems to me that we need a minimum of respect for individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u234	That's not my opinion, Mr. From Maegd. Indeed, we had put item 15 on hold and asked for the presence of a minister. The government is now represented, and I propose that we continue with the point we have begun to address.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u235	Mr President, with all due respect to you and your institution, you told me a few moments ago that we would start with the text concerning the Prime Minister who would arrive. I am simply surprised that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u236	When did I say that? A few moments ago! I was by your side!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u237	Was the session open at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u238	Mr President, the sitting was not open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u239	I consulted the assembly and we chose to continue with the point that had been started, which also seems logical.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u240	Has this choice been unanimous?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u241	Is this a vote you are asking for at this hour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u242	No, Mr. President, you know I'm a constructive person.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u243	Mr De Maegd, it is actually thanks to you that we are talking today about the CRM. We went a long way for the CRM file. The text has changed radically. What has begun as an okay of participation has ended as a child of parliamentary democracy. Mr Wollants has already said that the baby was born thanks to the green-yellow axis. I'd like to rephrase it. It is thanks to the substantive involvement of almost all the groups in the committee that we were able to land with the dossier. It is true that this is just a resolution, which also dealt with the issue of suspension. But it is only a resolution in the title. The reason why we are here today is because the Minister has come to Parliament and has asked for the wall-resistant dossier, which she had with an outgoing government, with 38 seats and therefore without a majority not resolved, to be decommissioned. Mr Van Quickenborne, chairman of the committee, then consulted the committee to see if Parliament was prepared to do so. In the beginning, we were divided on this issue. For example, Mr Ben Accour felt that the work had come to the government. In the end, we found each other on the committee and started the file step by step. The fact that there is a motion for a resolution before us today is mainly due to the failure of legislative work in the energy sector. That is, of course, a negative statement, but one can also say it positively. In fact, the proposal is the end of an era of instability. In times of many explanations there is ultimately a result here, the missing piece of the puzzle that has been waiting for so long, when it comes to the CRM file. Parliament has worked very hard, but of course we were not the only ones who worked on the dossier. The same applies to the network operator Elia, the administration, the FOD Energy and the regulator. Furthermore, many stakeholders from the sector participated in the various expert groups at Elia. This joint work has ultimately led to a very comprehensive methodology for CRM. In the end, CRM must attract much-needed investments in our energy market, because our energy assets are old and worn out. There is a shortage and the renewal will not come naturally. That is why we need the CRM. We have worked on this together with the whole sector and, while the government has not given it at home for a long time, Parliament has finally taken care of the missing piece. That's not insignificant, because it's about funding. I am proud of the agreement because, for the first time, we do not resort to the invoice for the financing of energy policy. Mr Wollants has given examples, it was indeed always the easiest legal way to work through the invoice. When we sat together with the various groups and listened to each other, our conclusion was that that road was no longer sustainable. The energy bill is being overloaded and, as Mr Wollants has said, if we put costs into it, we must also get them out. Finally, the committee agreed to review the whole energy bill in the light of the financing of energy policy. Mr Wollants, for me, that agreement stands as the Zimmer Tower, but it is not a Lierke pleasure. For me, the agreement should not last until the next government, but until the next government. We have not reached an agreement in committee that a next government can mow away or overrule by adopting another resolution or by making up something else or by writing something else in a government agreement. The agreement provides the basis for the CRM. We have had instability in relation to nuclear power stations and offshore. We must not repeat this instability for the operators who will provide capacity through the CRM. The energy sector is characterised by flexibility, more and more over the next few years, but we must ensure stability in policy. That is what we are doing with the motion for a resolution. After looking back at what we have all done, I would like to conclude by looking forward, as my colleague has done. He has looked ahead and said that it is enough simply to extend the lifespan of two nuclear power plants so that all the problems can be solved. Mr Wollants, with the agreement we have reached here, with the missing piece of puzzles to lay the CRM, we have also laid the foundations for making the exit from nuclear energy possible effectively, in order to make a start to transition, so that we do not need the nuclear power stations. You say that extending the life of nuclear power stations means reducing costs in the long term. I disagree. When it comes to nuclear energy, we have to look at all the costs throughout the life cycle, just as it does for the offshore, taking into account the fact that concessions in the sea must be restored in the original state. This means that we have to bear the costs of waste, decommissioning and storage of low-, medium- and high-radioactive waste for tens of thousands of years, and nuclear energy is not the cheapest energy. If nuclear energy is cheap today, it is only because prior to liberalisation agreements were made in the control committee with employers, employees and the operator, to speed up the write-off of nuclear power plants and to pass on the energy bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u244	Mr Wollants wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u245	Mrs van der Straeten, I would just like to point out to you that the extension of the life of a number of nuclear power plants only creates a very small additional amount of waste. The greatest amount of waste that we will have to take into account is, of course, the destruction of the plants themselves, which are still there today. We can never avoid that waste by not extending its lifespan, we have that waste anyway. This brings us to a different balance than you have outlined. I would also like to point out that our predecessors I do not know whether or not you are a member of the nuclear exit law, according to one of the arguments put forward by the FANC, which will not include any part of the capacity to produce energy. I do not think it would be wise to use this capacity just now, as it also has some advantages. You will not hear me say that nuclear energy only has advantages, but I do not know any technology with mere advantages. If we take into account CO2 emissions and the necessary investments, I think there will be advantages if some of the planned fossil power stations are not built, as these fossil power stations will be redundant after about four years. By keeping the nuclear power plants open for longer, I think there is a good balance for people and the environment. We can, of course, differ on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u246	Mr Wollants, a year ago the Federal Planning Office passed both the N-VA election programme with 2 gigawatts of nuclear energy for 10 years as well as the Green programme, while maintaining the current nuclear exit calendar. The Planbureau concluded that both programmes achieve the CO2 target - so the CO2 argument does not play - and that both programmes are equally expensive. With the N-VA programme, profits go to the nuclear operator and with the Green programme to the decentralised operator. That calculation was recently explained by Mrs Devogelaer of the Planning Bureau in committee. It was a shared question from the political groups that the programmes would be passed on and that was the analysis of the Planning Bureau. Whether the nuclear power stations run longer or not, the cost of the waste remains hugely high. Saying that nuclear energy is cheap and that it is just a little more waste is not true. The most important argument for me is this. Mr Thijs and Mr Sageman van Engie have come to the committee to explain what they need if there is to be a lifetime extension. Now, a change in the law is of secondary importance. What they need is a bilateral agreement between the operator and the Belgian State, because the investment they have to make is so high that the guarantee can only be given through a bilateral agreement. They want to protect against regulatory instability and market uncertainty. Low market prices pose a risk to Engie for the extension of the life of nuclear power plants, while today there is a market mechanism, a CRM. There is no technology in our country today where there is a bilateral agreement with a government, federal or regional, to ensure that the technology can continue to run, and that is fundamentally market distorting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u247	Mrs van der Straeten, Mr Francken wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u248	Mr President, I did not mention his name.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u249	Shall we discuss the Rules of Procedure together? A Member of Parliament always has the right to an interruption to question the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u250	Mr President, thank you for always applying the Rules of Procedure. I have a lot of respect for that. Mrs van der Straeten, I think it is fantastic, really, that a proposal for a resolution from the MR, which was intended for the government, has produced a wonderful initiative, a budding love, between Green and the N-VA. That makes me warm to the heart. We have a slogan in Flemish Brabant: Flemish and green. That's a lot more than a slogan to me, that's something I really cherish. Every day Zuhal Demir plants a tree, I'm a lucky person. But there's one thing I need to get off my chest. I'm not an expert, which Bert Wollants is. I have enormous respect for his expertise, including yours, by the way. You've been doing this a lot longer than I have, and you know more about it than I do. But what I don't understand is the Green Fetish against nuclear power. I don't understand. I have seen that other green parties in Europe eventually embrace nuclear energy, because it is carbon-neutral. But for the green parties here in Belgium, both Ecolo and Green, that remains taboo. This probably has to do with the peace movement and with the antinuclear movement, the antinuclear movement. Peter De Roover can tell many wonderful stories about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u251	Is that your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u252	I come to my question, Mr President. I really don't get that fetish. Why is it so difficult for you, Mrs van der Straeten, to admit that we are keeping the two least old nuclear reactors open for a number of years? Why is that such an improbably big, insurmountable problem? It is certainly not an ideological issue. But why is it such a problem, especially if you're just looking at the facts and figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u253	For the facts and figures, Mr Francken, we don't have to go far back in time. With the past winter storms Dennis and Chiara the offshore wind turbines have produced tremendously. Contrary to what was expected by Elia, the wind turbines were not switched off; they were on the appointment. I note with you that the nuclear power stations in this country are rarely on the agenda today. Today, no power plant is operating in Tihange. One's in revision. Another has a deformed water reservoir. That says enough about the reliability of nuclear power stations today. During the lockdown due to the corona epidemic, energy demand was low. At the same time, there was a lot of renewable energy, much more than last year. The production of renewable energy was switched off because the nuclear power plants could not modulate their production for technical reasons. I am only in favour of an energy system, Mr Francken, where production with the latest technology, and also the cheapest - renewable energy - must be switched off to run the remnants of the past. My reason for being in favour of renewable energy is purely economic in nature. I read that during the Corona epidemic, one of the largest renewable energy operators published a page-sized ad to indicate that its wind turbines had to be switched off, because the nuclear energy producer cannot modulate. The future of our energy market is flexibility. This flexibility cannot be provided by nuclear power stations. That is, by the way, the next item on our agenda. So, Mr Francken, if we want to make the transition to 100 % renewable energy by 2040 2050, we have to start with that today. Taking care of the future begins today. The first step is to ensure that a large bulk of inflexible capacity is withdrawn from the market. Many experts agree; other experts have different opinions. In any case, today's core exit is perfectly feasible, and that also fits perfectly in the future vision of carbon neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u254	Mr Wollants, you have already interrupted the speaker. There is no unlimited right to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u255	Mr President, I will try to answer as many questions as possible in a short space of time. Firstly, I do not need to remind you, Mrs van der Straeten, that the producer surplus can be completed. That happens for Target 1 and 2 without any problem. Secondly, with regard to the inflexible nature of nuclear power plants, the hearing clearly showed that the problem for years and years lies in the closure of 4 gigawatt production. Thirdly, renewable capacity was not mandatory. It was switched off because the producers themselves decided to do so. The committee confirmed that this was at the demand of the customers and not at the demand of the nuclear power plants. The Belgian Offshore Platform has testified that there was a switch-off, because the renewable energy sector agreed. That's a whole different story. You did not address the issue of nuclear waste, because you are still looking at the overall package and not just the extension of life. For the first part, we'll have to pay anyway. The energy transition will certainly take place. The Planning Bureau has calculated more than once that there is no problem in developing renewable energy. That was also confirmed by EnergyVille. The only thing that matters is that thousands of megawatts have to be placed less into the CRM, which means less funding. I offer you on a dish the way we can finance the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u256	I suggest that Mrs van der Straeten should take up the issues that have been said, but that she should also finish her speech. There are other speakers who also have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u257	Mr President, I would particularly like to correct what Mr Wollants has said. The producers switched off during the corona crisis at the request of the PPA holder. The PPA holder was Engie, the same PPA holder who did not ask to switch off during the storms. There is the underlying legal reality in the agreement that the other party may request that there be shut down. If at that time less nuclear energy had been produced, the shutdown would not have been necessary. That's the essence. There is too much inflexible capacity to ensure that renewable energy does not have all the opportunities. I, along with my group, like the International Energy Agency, choose an energy system based on renewable energy. This is particularly flexible. That also means that we do not need this inflexible capacity. Colleague, we will have this debate for a while in the coming years. Today, the object is the CRM. Today is the subject of how we attract investment in our energy market, which we always need. Also in your scenario, which extends 2 gigawatts. Our energy assets are old and not efficient. The market does not solve that on its own. For that there is today the CRM. That is why this resolution is being discussed today. Mr President, Mr Francken has spoken of 'blowing love'. That is not the point, Mr Francken. I'd like us to be able to look that love in the eye next year. What we have achieved here in the committee on the basis of substantive commitment is how we should be able to work further. We must not get stuck in wells-nothing games and say that it is not true what the Planning Bureau said. It is this shallowness, Mr Francken, which is destroying the sector. The sector needs long-term prospects and investment security. That is to say, to work thoroughly, not on the basis of boutades. Today, on the basis of thorough study work, it appears once again that we do not need these old nuclear power stations. To ensure that, we have made sure that the CRM can be unblocked. That's the most important thing in the end. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have contributed to this. That was actually all the groups. That was Parliament's responsibility. Just because we have put aside the discussion on what to do with the two nuclear power stations, Mr Francken, we have looked further into the future. If we can keep doing that with other files, we can still hit somewhere. That's what I sign for: for construction, not for demolition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u258	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I had been told that one day I would be debating in the House at 03:16 in the morning of the CRM, I would not have believed it. And yet, it happened! For many months, we have watched this crucial issue bogged down for the energy future of our country. An incomplete dossier submitted at the end of December to the European Commission and then weeks and months to play hide-and-seek with a financing order which it was up to the government to take. Then time passes, dangerously with this tik-tok of the clock of the exit of nuclear, on the one hand, of the security of supply, on the other, which resonated more and more loud. Then, in the middle of spring, a motion for a resolution which first made me perplexed and dubious, but a motion for a resolution which Parliament was able to take up to maintain the CRM and all the stakes it is dragging on the tracks. But no one wanted to sign a blank check. And so, the Members we are, have participated in a real exercise of parliamentary democracy. The expression has been used by Mrs Van der Straeten and is quite correct. And a kind of CRM coalition has been set up to build convergences and do the job. Because yes, as previous colleagues have pointed out, Parliament has done the job. It has done so and this work has resulted in a 17-page amendment which replaced the original text and which, in fact, makes it possible to get out of the rut not only the CRM but also the nuclear exit schedule while guaranteeing the country's security of supply. I have to tell the truth: everyone has played their part. I welcome everyone's tremendous work on transparency, Parliament's role, cost, etc. For my group, there was a major requirement, a sine qua non for the support of the Socialists to this resolution: the cost of the capacity compensation mechanism (CRM) could under no circumstances be borne by households or the state budget. We absolutely wanted to ensure the exit of nuclear power and security of supply, but without any impact on the final consumer's electricity bill. And that won't be the case. Indeed, the funding proposal builds on the use of an ad hoc fund dedicated to federal public energy service obligations. We wanted this fund to be financed by a variety of sources, including the revenues of the ambitious new measures to combat tax fraud. The money needed to finance CRM will not be taken into the household pocket, while the energy price is already extremely high in this country, the third highest in Europe. This was an absolutely crucial element for us. We played to scare us, things should have happened differently, we should have started the debate on the financing of this mechanism more quickly and certainly, from the beginning of the legislature, a few weeks or months after the MRC law was passed. We'd have saved time. But I won't ruin my pleasure. We have been heard on most of our requests. Households and SMEs will be protected. The funding barrier is normally overcome. It is now necessary to keep pace because there is still a lot of work to be done. Let us not forget that the text we will be voting on tomorrow is a resolution and that, therefore, we are waiting for the government's proposals on a path that is now clearly marked – and that is the pride of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u259	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little shaky at 3.20 p.m. It has nothing to do with alcohol, but it has to do with a little fatigue. I am nevertheless trying to make clear our group's views on the CRM. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for leaving your home in Tournai at this hour of the night. A great empathy, a willingness to compromise, strong and politically poked and misguided MEPs with great expertise, who can perfectly measure themselves with the minister's cabinet and administration and, more importantly, be able to replace that cabinet and administration and, in extreme circumstances, to conclude an agreement to this government, I hope that I will almost force the next government to provide an adequate response to possible power cuts in the future. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm those words of praise, which, following the adoption of this resolution on a support mechanism for officially technology-neutral capacity, but in practice perhaps energy production from gas plants, was published in the press. All those praises are indeed truthful. Mr De Maegd's initial resolution, which nobody, except Mr De Maegd himself, fully supported, was rewritten in a very radical way. After all, nobody wanted to be blamed for having signed a blank cheque for the CRM, Marghem version. Fortunately, almost everyone has taken the CREG's estimate that the nominal cost of the Marghem system could be estimated at between EUR 614 million and EUR 940 million a year. Everyone therefore recognised the need to limit the volume to be contracted to what is strictly necessary for security of supply, avoiding overcapacity. Everyone therefore recognised that the government should minimise the costs of CRM through contractual price limits, sufficient control of the regulator at the investment thresholds, etc. Fortunately, everyone also recognised that public service funding would have an impact on the energy bill and would stand in the way of increasing electrification aimed at by a large majority in this House if no compensatory measures were taken around that invoice. According to this resolution, the government should ensure that the total additional costs associated with federal policy on the invoice fall compared to the reference year 2021, despite the public service obligations imposed by this CRM. This resolution expects the government to make a proposal to Parliament by the end of this year, including a new proposal of degressivity for the credit transfer of the CRM and the offshore, without this degressivity increasing the invoice compared to 2021. Our group also lives in reality and knows that the European Commission must be able to express an urgent opinion on this CRM in order, if necessary, to organise the first auctions from next year. However, my group would like to make a few critical comments. Mrs van der Straeten herself said in the press: "We knew it would not work if we mixed the discussion on the support mechanism with the one on nuclear energy." I have to laugh, because we've been there for the past 20 minutes. How do Mrs Van der Straeten, Mrs Dierick and undoubtedly several other co-signators read this resolution? For Mrs Van der Straeten, the agreement on the support mechanism is an insurance policy to carry out the core exit: "This will pave the way for the planned core exit and boost investment in renewable energy'. For Mr Wollants, things are slightly different. Keeping two nuclear power plants open for longer remains a perfect track to achieve a guaranteed drop in the invoice. Everyone's CRM. Why is this CRM resolution before us today? Why did you have to work so hard? A CRM Framework Act was adopted at the beginning of 2019. Why did the framework law come into force? Who is responsible for the need for a CRM? I'm gonna dive into history anyway. Colleague Wollants, I don't do like Hyacinth Bucket in Keeping up appearances, pretend .............................................................................. The CRM dossier is not separate from the law on the core exit, from your resolution on a possible limitation of the nuclear exit after 2025 and from Mr Van Lommel's bill on extending the lifetime of nuclear power plants and leaving open the possibility of building and operating new nuclear power plants with contempt. In fact, this is confirmed by one of the recitals in this resolution. This refers to the National Energy and Climate Plan which provides for the change of the electricity mix as a result of the nuclear exit by 2025. It calls for a mix without nuclear energy. It is also interesting to visit the website of the FPS Economy. They literally read that the CRM has everything to do with the implementation of the energy transition and, unfortunately, also with the still attached nuclear exit. The Minister, of course, knew perfectly well in 2015 that renewable energy production alone would not bring us there in terms of security of supply if all nuclear production disappeared. Therefore, on 21 December 2015, she entrusted Elijah with the task of determining the need for flexible resources to allow for the security of supply criteria for the period 2017 to 2027. In order to ensure the presence of sufficient resources for adequacy and flexibility during that period, the FPS AD Energy organised a consultation on possible market mechanisms in 2016 on behalf of the Minister. The market players are there for a reason, Mrs Marghem, dear representatives of the people. The action to be carried out was therefore no more or less than working on the necessary financial support to ensure the adequacy of the Belgian electricity system for the coming years. A little more could be done with the strategic reserve mechanism, Elia had to continue to evaluate periodically the need for adequacy and flexibility, but in particular work had to be done to prepare for the introduction of a CRM, a support mechanism for new capacity. Then we arrive at 4 April 2019, when a large majority has adopted the framework law CRM. Then, during the current legislature, we were presented with a not very nice spectacle, namely a kind of gladiator fight between the CREG and the minister's administration, supported by Elia, energy suppliers and a number of key market players. I refer, by the way, to the recent memorandum of the CREG, dated 9 July 2020, that is, last week, addressed to the reformer of the federal government. I suspect it's the three kings. I don't remember. In that memorandum, the regulator stresses that the introduction of the CRM must meet a real need for security of supply. Therefore, the CREG is asking the next government, to quote, "to organise a new adequacy study carried out by Elia, or at least an update of the study of June 2019.' The Minister did not wait for the outcome of that clash of the titans, which even went so far that even the need for a CRM itself was thrown on the table, did not wait and submitted a notification of State aid to the Competition DG of the European Commission in December 2019, but without any clarity about the financing mechanism. A few months later, at the end of March or early April, the Minister then provided the European Commission with the method for determining the amount of capacity purchased under the CRM. In doing so, it considered very clearly that the method proposed by the CREG did not provide sufficient guarantees for it to ensure the required level of security of supply. The Minister's persistence was not appreciated by a majority of the Energy Committee. Colleagues, the concerns of the CREG were also ours and, according to the resolution before us, many Members of different political groups. The final conclusion is that the need for a CRM is something we will wait for, but I hope that I may baptize it as a CRM light to all parties except the Flemish Interest, represented here. It is not us who approved the 2003 law. It is not us that have indicated to the operator and possible other investors in nuclear production that further investments other than in existing plants are indeed worth noting that this was already difficult enough to achieve. We have not created the political framework which now calls for a subsidy mechanism. It is unbelievable that in September 2018, at the time with N-VA, the Michael administration was willing to support the MYRRHA project in the SCK after a long period of hesitation. Was this aid perhaps only intended to drastically reduce the volume and radiotoxicity of high radioactive waste in the context of the production of new radioisotopes and in the research into new technologies? However, I was always told that the SCK would also use the research reactor for the qualification of fuel elements for the new generation of fast reactors and for fusion. In other words, MYRRHA will only be used for small modular reactors abroad. Well, I'm trying to think logically. So I am terribly sorry, Mr Wollants, because you have come a long way since your "N-VA vision of a modern energy system," as you published on 31 May 2012. On page 4, you mentioned not only the need to keep existing nuclear power stations more open, but also the need to replace existing nuclear power stations with one new power station on thorium. Today, you are merely saying that keeping the two youngest nuclear power stations open for longer could have a beneficial effect on the size and cost of a CRM, and you seem to accept the inevitable. I understand, of course, that your position was changed eight years later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u260	Mr Ravyts, the technology that seemed very promising at the time does not exist today. I also read this in the programme of Flemish Interest, in which you propose to set up a kind of eco-fund, filled with the sale of a number of public participations, to start research into a thorium plant. That too is not yet in the phase of the order in which the construction can be started tomorrow. In this sense, we must adapt to reality occasionally, on the basis of the state of the art. In my view, it is still wise to extend the life of the youngest nuclear power plants. We are taking an important step forward in this. As you may have noticed in the same document, it is an en-en-story. In this document, too, we are demonstrating the need for flexible production capacity to be deployed. Indeed, in 2012, the level of ambition was somewhat higher and confidence in science was greater in moving forward. However, we must always stick to reality. I am convinced that these new, progressive nuclear reactors will still be there, but I cannot yet order them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u261	Mr President, I have another question for Mr Ravyts. We can talk about the existing nuclear power stations, and there is perhaps something to say about them because they are there, but new nuclear power plants... You have heard in committee the story of the Netherlands, where today, instead of banning the construction of a new nuclear power station, no one is prepared to do so. You know the story of Finland, don't you? You also know that companies like RW(?) And ENGIE Electrabel today say that he no longer believes in that energy source and that he will no longer invest in it? I wonder if you really believe that there will still be investors willing to build nuclear power plants in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u262	I'm just working on reality. You're talking about today. Why isn't there a business plan today? What have we been doing for the past 20 years? Have we told the nuclear industry that we will facilitate the construction of a new nuclear power plant? Did we? No, we have sent out other signals and pursued a different policy. Two years later, in 2014, N-VA won a very big victory. Mr Wollants, did you at that time throw the nuclear exit law into federal government negotiations? I'm not talking about now. What you're doing right now is fantastic for me. But you have to do it now because you didn't do something at the time. That's my reasoning. Did you say in 2014 that you would do something to prevent a CRM? In 2015, Minister Marghem knew, in the situation that arose, that there would be a need for a supportive market mechanism, but something could have been done to prevent it from coming to that. That's my reasoning. You had a lot of power back then, you were the trigger of the federal government. I have noticed very little of that. You will be angry when I say that your vision text was actually one for the gallery. When it comes to the point, I still like the maled Flemish interest, which for the time being, and according to Mr Verherstraeten forever title, should not go on the federal roech track of power, because after that the reckoning, which can sometimes be peppered, follows very often. So let us hope that at least the CRM invoice for the families and the companies will not be peppered. You will understand, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that Flemish Interest will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u263	Mr. Wollants, you don't want to talk about history again, do you? I feel like we're on a truth committee here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u264	At the time, in the framework of the government negotiations, we included the examination of the capacity mechanism. That was very conscious. That was also based on the vision text we were discussing earlier. There was the knowledge that in recent years - I mean since the liberalisation of the market - there has simply been no investment in security of supply. Keeping all nuclear power plants more open still did not solve the problem that the old gas plants were closing down all over Europe at the time. That is also why we have instructed the Minister to examine a capacity mechanism in cooperation with neighbouring countries, precisely in view of this aspect. That is not at all contrary to the text of the vision we were talking about just now. That's always been part of the story. I don't think we should look up the contradictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u265	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we see this: insomnia rhymes with energy. This white night, I hope, will rhyme with white smoke for my proposal. As a wink, I would like to quote Anne Barratin, a woman of French letters: "Energy does not need an audience to be." It's 3:40 in the morning, and this quote resonates more than ever like a truth. As a young Member of Parliament, I discover this parliamentary game, the interruptions of sittings and the reminders of ministers. This reminds me of another quote – from Gregory Lacroix, figure. This other French writer wrote this, which could also apply to the present situation: "Seen from the point of view of energy savings, doing nothing is already a contribution." For this, I thank you, for you illuminated my night. It's a joke! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I say anything about energy...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u266	Energy never sleeps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u267	Energy never sleeps. You're right, Minister. If I say something about energy, it is because the motion for a resolution that I have tabled before you today is of vital importance for security of supply in our country over the next few years. It is probably the most essential in many years. As you know, the law provides for Belgium to leave nuclear power by 2025. By then, alternatives will have to be developed to compensate for this output, which must take into account the needs between 1.6 and 3.9 gigawatts. The capacity compensation mechanism (CRM), which was adopted here in April 2019, pursues this objective through an auction system allowing the financing of new means of energy production. In order to make it operational within the necessary time, ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative to notify the European Commission this summer of its funding. That is the very purpose of this proposal. As soon as this is done, the Commission will be able to take a decision and we will be able to start the process. The text before you is, it is true, the result of an important work done in committee – I would like to stress that. With a simple notification to the Commission, we have achieved a much more comprehensive text with clear guidelines for the establishment of the mechanism through debate. I'll be back in a minute. The government, given special powers by the VOCID-19 crisis, did not have the opportunity to decide on this method of funding the CRM. That is why Parliament has taken over, and I welcome it. The text on which we agreed in committee is in fact a threefold victory. First of all, this vote will make it possible to leave nuclear power in 2025, if the next full-function government decides – without making it mandatory. In any case, without CRM, a short-term exit was not possible. We have repeated it enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u268	Mr De Maegd, you quickly slipped that the government did not have the opportunity to take these orders. We've often exchanged on this in committee. I would like to do so in plenary. That's not true. The government had full discretion to make an order for which it was responsible. I want to point out that when he filed – we also talked about it – the file for notification in December, the file consisted of four orders. This is proof that the financing order could also have been taken, but, for reasons that are still partially beyond my control, this has not been done. So you know the rest of the story. Parliament has taken over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u269	Mr Ben Achour, there is a real shade that you forget, that at that time the government could not at all assume that the Commission would ask him to notify him of one of the three forms of funding that the government had presented to this commission. We must see the time line as it is and we must be of good importance in this matter. Then, in time and in time, as I said, the government became a full-fledged government with the confidence of this Parliament but with special powers focused on the VOCID-19 crisis. At the time when I tabled my resolution, it no longer had the option of choosing this method of financing, which is why Parliament took note of this situation and decided to take over. As I say to you, I am pleased that I was the basis of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u270	So the government could have realized that the file was incomplete if it simply listened to us in committee in December. Indeed, I asked the minister at the time of the filing of the file and asked her whether she was certain, under those conditions, that the European Commission would judge the file as complete. She decided not to listen and filed an order with three funding options. At the time she was in a government in day-to-day business.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u271	Maybe you want to rewrite the story in your own way. I can't stop you. I'm a democrat. Everyone writes the story the way they want it. I would simply say to you that the timeline is, in my view, extremely clear and that the Commission has asked for a method of financing at a time when the government no longer had the opportunity to do so. It's simple. We can write all night. It doesn't bother me, I'm in good shape. Mr Ben Achour, I would simply say that we should not want to get the whole thing back in fine, in the last straight line. You said earlier that the government was playing hide-and-seek. Excuse me, but you've also played hide-and-seek a lot! With all the esteem I have for you, I have often had to try to have insight to find you, to have answers to my messages, to my SMS, to meetings where you were not, where you arrived very late. So it was complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u272	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u273	Mr. Laaouej, I give you my experience. I'm a young congressman. When I have your experience, I'm sure I'll have a lot more text messages that won't be answered. We agree on that, and I'm not saying it to argue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u274	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u275	I think it remains of quality, Mr.Ben Achour, but we must not want to attribute to ourselves the laurels that are not ours, we must give back to Caesar what is Caesar's. In this case, these laurels come back to Parliament because of the government's inability to intervene at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u276	Mrs Van der Straeten would like to interrupt you briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u277	Mr President, I would like to join Mr Ben Accour. Even more, if it were, what you say, Mr De Maegd, that the government could not make a decision because it is in current business, what will the government do on 21 July? On 21 July, the decision must be taken on the reference scenario, which will define the methodology for the volumes under the CRM. However, the government is still in business. Will a decision be taken on this? The deux choses l'une, they say in French. One can be decided on, not on, but in your reasoning that the government cannot decide, the reference scenario will not be decided. Today is July 16th, next Tuesday is July 21st.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u278	July 21 is an important day: union is strength. For me, symbols are fundamental! Mrs. Van der Straeten, I'm not a guess. I don't know what will happen by July 21. I simply hope that we will vote tomorrow on this motion for a resolution, which will be a step forward. For the rest, I will refer to what the government can do by then. It's a triple win. First of all because it will make it possible – if the government so wishes – to leave nuclear power. Secondly, because this resolution will not make it mandatory. But without CRM, a short-term exit was not possible. Finally, this mechanism will ensure – and I believe it is the essential thing – that citizens and businesses have the security of energy supply. This was crucial when you know that the cost of a black out was estimated at 120 million euros from the first hour. Finally, households and SMEs are financially protected. That has been a long way since the resolution was tabled last April. From the beginning, I undertook to listen to all the comments, all the suggestions, in order to arrive at a text of the widest possible consensus. My group had proposed an article 76. We proposed the urgency, which was refused. Whatever it is, it is the legislative events and, ultimately, it is the result that counts. I finally proposed to work on a single amendment, this famous 17-page amendment, which is the result of collective work, in order to obtain a broad consensus on this text of crucial importance. That is what we have done, and we are about to vote for this highly improved text. I sincerely welcome the way this has happened and I would like to thank each of the colleagues who have taken part in this process by sending out remarks, comments and requests, sometimes being very critical but always constructive. I thank those who have enabled us to reach this text: Tinne Van der Straeten, Bert Wollants, Len Dierick, Bram Delvaux – who actively participated in the drafting of this amendment –, Kris Verduyckt, Malik Ben Achour. Together, we have been able to set aside our differences to focus on what I see as the most fundamental: our convergences. This is the nobility of politics and we have shown that in our country, discussing between parties is still possible and that the art of compromise still exists. May this example serve as an inspiration for other floors and for other negotiations. I call him my vows. Colleagues, in practice, it is therefore the option of the public service obligation, via Elia's tariffs, that has been chosen as the source of funding for CRM. This choice was supported by all the stakeholders we had the opportunity to hear at the hearings held in committee. This choice was most relevant, since it allows for only one contracting party, Elia, who also has real expertise in this area. This option is also the one that offers the most safeguards in terms of control, and I think it is important, as Mr Wollants has pointed out, to be transparent. As I was saying, we were able to work on a grouping text. It specifies many other elements, in addition to the method of financing that was particularly important to each other. In concrete terms, requests to the government will be divided into four components. A first aspect of the government's transparency obligations with respect to the determination of volume and parameters. A second concerns the costs of the mechanism. A third part concerns the method of financing. A final section deals with the functioning of the market. All these aspects must be notified to the European Commission. Madam Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud of this text on which we will have to speak; proud of its content, proud of the victories it will bring us and which I have exposed to you; proud of the way it was built. In committee, a very large majority of Members voted in favour of this resolution, which must be stressed. In the end, only the PTB voted against this text in committee. I hope, of course, that the same will be done in plenary tomorrow. I thank you, in any case, for this fruitful work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u279	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I think that many of us are beginning to hope that we will soon be able to turn off the lights in this Chamber at this advanced hour. Nevertheless, I would like to take the floor on an important file in which we try to light the lamp, even after 2025. We all want to avoid a blackout. That is precisely why we voted in 2019 to introduce a capacity compensation mechanism. There is still time to discuss how much capacity we need, but one thing is for sure: we need additional capacity regardless of what scenario will be chosen later. This is also clear from the various hearings we have had on this subject. We need additional capacity and the CRM can ensure that the replacement capacity to produce electricity is attracted and available, so that we can avoid a blackout. As you know, the CRM file was notified to the European Commission at the end of 2019, but unfortunately the file was incomplete. The European Commission refused to examine the dossier further before our country made a clear choice as to how this mechanism would be financed. We need that mechanism and time is running out. A first auction should take place next year. It is therefore impossible to delay and would also be irresponsible. Since we are in an exceptional political context, and since CRM will exceed several legislative hours, the Minister for Energy has asked Parliament to make a decision on the method of financing. In that case two things can be done as a parliament. Either one chooses the easiest option and does nothing. Either as a Member of Parliament one dares to stick its neck out, take responsibility and seek a compromise together. Colleagues in the Energy Committee have chosen to walk this last slope. Even though we knew that each party had concerns, that each party has questions about the CRM file, that it was a very delicate exercise, yet we started working. Both before and behind the scenes a compromise was worked out and buttons were cut. The result of this work is now before us. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should be proud of what we have done in our committee and of the resolution before us. This resolution provides a much-needed answer to the question from the European Commission on how funding will be financed. This resolution also provides a basis for all of us, for some legitimate concerns that each of us has. How much will it cost? Who's gonna pay for it? How do we, as a Parliament, keep our finger on the wrist or a stick behind the door? We have chosen to finance CRM on the basis of the public service obligations, i.e. through the Elia tariffs. That was a difficult but necessary choice. Necessary for the European Commission, but also difficult because there will be a surcharge on the invoice: first on consumption, only later on on power. People should be able to control their invoices themselves. Once the digital meter is rolled out, this can be done. That is why we initially opted for consumption and then for power. How the CRM will be financed is clear: by a surcharge on the energy bill. However, we do not want the energy bill to rise in its entirety. That is why the government must ensure that, despite this surcharge, the additional costs on the electricity bill fall for our families and our companies. We ask our government to come forward with a concrete proposal by the end of this year, with the aim of protecting the purchasing power of our families and the competitiveness of our companies. This part is very important to us: the invoice should not rise or decrease. In committee, we have seriously discussed what it should be, not rising or falling. There's not much difference, but it's a nuance. How this should be done in concrete terms, we have already made a move in this direction. An ad hoc fund can be used for this purpose, which can be financed in various ways. It is also important in the CRM design that cost-saving measures are also taken. That's not something that can be pushed on the long track. By the end of this year, we expect the government, whoever it may be, to come to Parliament with proposals. How much the CRM will cost, we have already received a lot of figures on this. One thing we know for sure: no one can say exactly how much it will cost. We can already try to reduce costs by installing a number of locks. In the text we have also included a concrete part to ensure that costs will be kept to a minimum, including by introducing price limits. However, if they are too low to guarantee our security of supply, there is still the possibility of adjusting them, but the committee should be consulted. That brings us straight to the last aspect. As a Parliament, we want to keep our finger on the pulse. We stuck our necks out, but we don't want to give a blank check. We want to be more involved and consulted at different times. For us, it is important that Parliament is consulted on important decisions, for example on the reference scenario or the volume to be auctioned. So we can follow every stage of the process closely. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have worked hard on this dossier in the Committee on Energy over the last few months. I think we should all be proud of the resolution before us. We have worked beyond party boundaries. I would therefore like to thank everyone who helped. It was a very constructive cooperation and a good atmosphere. We have taken important steps and we will probably have to take a lot more to bring this to a successful conclusion. I referred to us in committee as the CRM coalition, because we have worked across party boundaries in a rather bizarre atmosphere in Parliament. I hope that there will be fewer cracks in this CRM coalition than in some of our nuclear power plants and that we can take many important steps together to bring this CRM to a successful conclusion. We shall, of course, give our full support to this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u280	Mr Warmoes has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u281	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in the rostrum today because, in the words of the Chairman of the Climate Energy Committee, "this is the most important issue in recent years in the field of energy, perhaps even since the liberalisation of the energy market at the beginning of this millennium, 17 years ago in Flanders and 13 years ago in Brussels and Wallonia". We are talking about the Capacity Compensation Mechanism. As a new Member of Parliament, I therefore participated in the first sittings of our Parliament with the presentation of Elia's suitability study in June 2019 in the Climate Committee, which was followed by many other hearings. But already in July 2019, the CREG was issuing its first criticism - I will come back to the issue - with a very intense debate that we all listened to carefully. What is it? As has already been said, this is the release of nuclear power in 2025, which the PTB clearly supports. According to Elia's study, the market does not guarantee security of supply in the event of a nuclear release. In order to remedy the market failure, therefore, an investment incentive called the Capacity Remuneration Mechanism (CRM) had to be found. It is, in fact, a subsidy to multinationals that are already making huge profits. Engie, for example, recorded a billion euros net profit in 2019. This is about an estimated updated cost of 345 million per year per PwC and, according to the CREG, according to the latest scenario, 949 million euros per year over 15 years, representing a gift of 5 to 14 billion euros. This brings me to the first problem raised by the PTB. Why give hundreds of millions to companies that already benefit widely? Would it not be better to invest this money in public investments in renewable energy? Above all, however, one fifth of households in our country, namely 400,000 families, are in energy poverty. On 28 May, we voted on a bill to index the Social Fund for Gas and Electricity. Everyone in committee and even in this Parliament agreed that this was only a first step. Why a first step? Because the value of this step was calculated at €6.3 million. It's a fund that helps CPAS themselves help households that can no longer pay their bills. A lot of people have trouble with their energy bills. This is 6.3 million, but the King Baudouin Fund had estimated several necessary measures, including a revision of the indexation mechanism, and the total was estimated at 30 million euros. The first step has been taken, and the others are waiting. I am therefore a little surprised that, when we voted on these EUR 6.3 million, the Open Vld is abstaining, whereas the budgetary impact of this CRM is, in the minimum scenario, at least 55 times higher. As I said, there was a need for a stimulant to have the capacity that was deemed necessary. This is the second problem the PTB has with this CRM. A second problem for us is the calculation of capacity. As I said, there has been strong criticism by the CREG of Elijah's calculations. The CREG is not just a player like another, it is the regulator, the public authority in our country that is in charge of protecting consumers. I find it very strange that in this gallery the speakers of the CRM coalition did not invent this myself, but that term was invented in committee. There is no unity and no clarity about the need for additional capacity. However, one must first know what one needs, when one goes to the shop to buy something. On 9 July 2020, the CREG actually sent a memorandum saying that it had read the resolution we are voting today, since we are already on Thursday. It stresses what it has already said for a long time: "In order to ensure that the implementation of the CRM meets a real need for security of supply, the CREG asks the future government that a new adequacy study or, at the very least, an update of the June 2019 adequacy study be carried out by the Network Manager, applying the European methodologies adopted by the ACER and taking into account the comments made by the CREG in July 2019, before the first ministerial instruction to organise a CRM auction". So that's what the CREG memorandum says. What problems do the CREG face? The most important thing is that global warming is not taken into account. That is a punishment, because we are members of the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate. Elia's study is based on the last 33 years. I'm not gonna tell you anything new about that, but no one's talked about it here. These include the very cold winters of 1984-85 and 1986-1987, with temperatures of up to 25 °C. We have had a hearing with experts from the VUB, who have made a study on this subject entitled Winter leaves, in which it has been clearly demonstrated, with various graphs, that there is indeed a warming in our country. The probability of cold winters is greatly reduced. If this is not taken into account, the need will be overestimated. The former chairman of our committee responded. I quote him: 'The 33 winters are not imposed by Europe. When the VUB says: look at a perspective of 5 or 20 years and see what the effect of sensitivity is, that seems to me to be a legitimate question. It is very legitimate to ask that question. I don't think the VUB is defending certain interests here. I think the VUB starts from a scientific insight and says what the effect is. Is that five years so remarkable, by the way? The German study carried out by the German Ministry of Transport and Tourism, I still see Germany as a solid country based on five climate years, not 33. I do believe that we should take this sensitivity into account and look at its impact. I wonder if there's a pin in there." So I did not say that, as our previous President said. According to the German study of January 2019, there is no problem of adequacy in Germany and Belgium. The CREG had other criticisms. I will not go into that further, but it was, among other things, about non-compliance with European regulations, the Clean Energy Package, taking into account only the production capacities of the market, while all capacity, including those outside the market, must be used to ensure maximum security of supply. Before we go shopping, we need to know what we need. That is why we have made a proposal to actually implement this request that the Commission for the Regulation of Electricity and Gas (CREG) has been making for more than a year. Unfortunately, our proposal has been rejected by all the parties present here. The conclusion, for us, is that there is still doubt as to the need for this CRM.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u282	I would like to add, however, why we did not support the proposal for an additional study. The CREG is a very valuable partner throughout the entire process we have done around the CRM. It is, on the one hand, through the CREG and, on the other hand, Elijah that we have two different positions on one side of the spectrum, so that we can find the centre. What I find difficult is that asking for an extra study in itself is no longer an issue. I'm also fond of the climate years. The people of the VUB were very nuanced and cited a number of sensitivities. However, we must no longer put the question to Elijah, but to the Minister. He was particularly concerned about the reference scenario that will be decided on 21 July and that the parameters will determine the capacity to be purchased, the safety parameters. Now asking for an additional study from Elia will not teach us anything in the short term if the reference scenario is established. We should not so much ask Elijah for extra things, but we should question the government in current cases, which cannot decide on funding, but rather on the volume that has a direct impact on the price, on those points that you raise. That should bind us across the political groups. It is also that which is the red line in the resolution. We want a continuous debate and exchange with the government about the different steps in the CRM, with the aim of keeping the price as low as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u283	Mr Warmoes, I understand your concern with the Clean Energy Package. You just mentioned that. The purpose of this resolution is just to notify the European Commission. Those are just those who will judge whether or not there is a conformity with the Clean Energy Package. There's no problem. That is precisely the purpose of this resolution when it is finally adopted, here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u284	It has already been repeated in committee, but if a supplementary study on electricity supply needs is warranted, it could be requested by the Minister under section 7 of the Electricity Act. It is an important point that we have also stressed in committee on many occasions: the fact that this would make little sense inasmuch as it would overlap the biennial study. The latter, which would make a projection by 2025, would begin in the coming weeks and would be published in June 2021. That has been said and repeated. It must be realized that such an adequacy study, even complementary, cannot be carried out in a very short time (unlike some think), as it requires public consultation, analysis and input from several experts. It gathers feedback from various stakeholders, discussions, it is a working group, with the writing and publication of a report. The previous study had actually lasted seven to eight months. I believe that the work in committee has shown that this additional study would be null and void in reality. I agree with my colleague from Groen, Tien Van der Straeten, that it no longer makes any sense in the present state of affairs. On the subject of climate change, I would remind you that the position of the VUB experts was extremely nuanced. Besides, one contradicted the other and the other timed. Go and read the reports again! He timed the enthusiasm of one of them. One fundamental point is that we Members have heard this climate study, but we do not know the terms of reference. The CREG commissioned a study, we don't know exactly what it asked for, we don't know its specifications, and you think that it is scientifically valid to decide on a study whose ins and outs are not even known? I think it has been demonstrated in the committee's work: strict winters are still known in the United States. In January 2019, remember (it was yesterday), there were record temperatures down (less 35° to minus 45°C). All this has been said and, as Elia does, it is necessary to rely on commonly accepted databases which are European databases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u285	The CREG has been requesting this study since July 2019. So yes, Mr De Maegd, the minister could do it, but she made it clear that it was not her will. That is why we have introduced a motion for a resolution and then a law, to force it to do so. You say it lasts seven to eight months, so if we started it in July or August last year, it would be ready. During the hearings, on 27 May we asked this question to the interlocutors who said that it was an update study, a supplementary study that would not take as long – Elia can make her figures available – as the basic study. Mrs Van der Straeten, we are obviously pleased that this matter is coming back to Parliament. The last word on this issue is not actually said. If this question of the supplementary study was not so important, you have to explain to me why the minister became terribly angry in committee when the CREG disagreed when the VUB study was presented, to the point of personally threatening a director of the CREG. And I find this particularly serious! If it wasn't important, I don't think she would have gotten so upset. With regard to the European Commission's judgment, we will see what it will say. I think it makes sense to take all abilities into account. And, about the VUB study, Mr. De Maegd, I have more confidence in scientists, as Mr. Van Quickenborne. He has said that the VUB departs from a scientific insight and does not defend any interests. I have more confidence in that than in Elijah, which certainly has more interests to defend, so I know if I have to choose. It's a scientific study. I have not noticed any disagreement between the various speakers. The study was very clear. Even Mr. Van Quickenborne was impressed. Yet, I don't think it's someone who's easily impressed. As we have seen this winter again, the trend is towards increasingly milder winters and less and less severe winters where the demand for electricity is higher. The third problem that this resolution poses is, of course, the question of who will pay. I quote the President here, neither in good nor in bad. He said, "This is the most thorny point in the file." I have not noted what has been said here on this subject, but in committee we have really heard everything. It was understood that the electricity bill of households and SMEs would decrease. It was understood that there would be an ad hoc fund funded by various sources of funding. This is obviously relatively vague. It was understood that the cost would not be borne by households or government budgets. It was understood that EUR 350 million would be borne by the State and that the means would come from the fight against tax fraud. It's a big joke because every time the government is formed, we say we're going to fight tax fraud. I fear that we cannot trust the "outgoing government", the "minority government" or "previous government", no matter what we call it, since tax evasion amounts to 20 billion euros. We always say we're going to fight her, but we don't do anything strong to do that. Therefore, in 2019, 172 billion euros went, legally, to tax havens. So I doubt it pays the CRM. I summarize what the president said. Whatever the tariff base, it will have an impact on the bills of households, SMEs and businesses. This impact must be minimized. All this is far from clear. For us, there is no machine that makes money. Someone will have to pay this bill and we fear that it will be households, independents or SMEs or taxpayers. For us, neither is an option. I'll finish. You will have understood that we do not support this resolution. I've heard several times say "all parties." No. Mr De Maegd, you have expressed the hope that we will vote against this resolution. That is what we will do again. We also regret the treatment of this initial proposal by Mr. De Maegd, which was completely replaced by a new proposal, which was submitted very late to the committee. We would have liked to have an opinion from CREG, Test Achats and the regions that are also concerned. We were denied that. That was voted on very quickly. Of course, we are not surprised that the right-wing parties want to give a billion-dollar gift to the energy multinationals. That is indeed what is happening. I see, Mrs. Marghem, that you fully agree. It is in the continuity of your government's policy. You don't agree? All right! I am a little disappointed that our socialist friends and environmentalists support this manoeuvre, because in our view the priorities must be elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u286	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the lighting gives the impression that it is broad daylight, but nothing is less true. The resolution which is due to be put to the vote has already come a long way in Parliament. This subject has actually been on the Energy Committee for a year. A year and a day ago there was a hearing in committee on this dossier, meanwhile the famous Elia study. It has not just been one hearing, there have been several hearings with a lot of disagreement between colleagues, but also, above all, very interesting and educational discussions. At the end of last year, the capacity compensation mechanism was notified to the European Commission. There was actually a problem because no choice had been made for a financing mechanism. That is why colleagues from the MR, Mr De Maegd and Mr Friart, have tabled a resolution in committee which has put the ball in Parliament's camp. For weeks we have been looking for a compromise between the members of the committee. I should like to pay tribute to Mr Van der Straeten, Mr Wollants and my group leader, Mr Van Quickenborne, for their efforts to reach a compromise. That was not just the work of those 3 people but actually of the whole committee, of all the members. It has already been pointed out on several occasions today: we should be proud of the result. I was a little concerned when I heard the speech of colleagues Van der Straeten and Wollants. I meant at some point that love was over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u287	Me, too, actually.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u288	Now, what is certain is that the text of the resolution will certainly not win a beauty prize. We have to be honest about that. Moreover, this is not our vision, but it is a compromise and I believe that anyone who has supported the amendment that has led to the final text of the resolution will find something in the text to support the compromise. Parliament has taken over this dossier and wants to remain involved. This is a very important message for the current Minister, but also for the future Energy Minister. We want transparency in this dossier. In April 2018, my group adopted the Framework Act for the Capacity Compensation Mechanism. Nor have we been blind to the comments and debates on this issue. So apart from transparency, there is another reason for us why this resolution is so important and why we will support it. It underlines the importance of reducing the cost of the capacity compensation mechanism as far as possible. At the same time, there has been a lot of discussion about whether we would mention declines, or not increase? But now it effectively states that it is not intended to increase the electricity bill. It's got to go down. Moreover, the government is now explicitly called upon to put forward concrete proposals to effectively reduce the electricity bill, and it is also proposed that the government provides for degressivity. I must confess, this won't be a walk in the park. That will be a serious task to come up with concrete proposals, but we are really looking forward to that in our committee. The method of financing, the tariff carrier, there was the most logical option actually to choose power, the capacity. Since the roll-out of digital meters in Wallonia and Brussels is slowing down in comparison with Flanders, we have created a compromise. It is clear that from 2029 we will switch to capacity as a tariff carrier. The file is now unblocked. It is now up to the European Commission to carry out an evaluation of the dossier and to look at it on the substance. We start a new chapter with that, but the story is far from over. The dossier continues and will be on the agenda of the Committee on Energy, Environment and Climate in the coming months and years. We will also be able to continue to play our part.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u289	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 2021 should be a particularly important year in our country's security of supply dossier. By 2025, nuclear power stations will close their doors. In 2021, the first auction within this system, the CRM, should take place that we have been talking about for some time. Why would I say that? We will vote on this resolution later. This resolution is an important step in this dossier. We are going to work with Parliament on how this mechanism will work best. We have worked hard on this. The Minister must continue with this resolution in order to convince Europe of our dossier. It's very late today, but she's also very late in the file. We are really heading for a Commission in-depth investigation. Hopefully we will be able to avoid that, otherwise I fear that we will not make it to 2021. That would be a real shame, because then 20 years after we started closing the nuclear power stations, we will still not be ready with our alternative. Let us be optimistic today. There's a mechanism in place. The alternative to nuclear power plants is the CRM. It's never been our preferred scenario. Let that be very clear, because the CRM is largely a result of two things. Firstly, there have been far too few investments in energy production in our country in recent years. There has been too little political force in this area. Secondly, this is also a consequence of the fact that a lot of political players have been missing from this dossier for a long time by making it unclear about nuclear energy. This will, of course, ensure that there is no good atmosphere for investment in other energy sources. The CRM will now have to ensure that energy security is maintained in our country. Much has already been said, but I would like to say a few words on two points. A first element is the method of financing. Let us be very clear: this mechanism is going to cost money, a lot of money. Security costs money, and as we are lagging behind in our country in terms of energy supply, a lot of investment will have to be made. There is, however, the hope that the mechanism will create a downward pressure on energy prices in our country. We hope it will be there anyway, but it will still cost money. That is why the agreement we are making in this resolution is particularly important: the energy bill should not be the victim, as Mr Wollants has just said. It must not rise again, but ways must be found to make the bill work. There's a lot of slopes. I think they are also in a green transition, but it is of course up to the government to proceed with that. I would like to say one thing very clearly: the resolution is not essentially about the debate on nuclear energy, but it has just been reopened. As far as we are concerned, we are now starting a CRM, but it is not possible that we will have to invest in nuclear energy as well. Mr Thijs was very clear in committee: keeping the two old nuclear power stations open for 10 or 20 years will cost EUR 1 or 2 billion to rig up the power stations. We're not paying that bill. That's a no-go zone for us. We are not going to start with a CRM and invest in those two old power stations. That is certainly not negotiable for us. If we choose a CRM, we must at once ensure that we develop a production sector that ensures that our country is self-sufficient, which is important, and that also gives us the necessary flexibility to build a production market in which renewable energy sources take the lead. The second element is market forces. It has already been said in committee that it is now 17 years after the release of the energy market. As far as energy suppliers are concerned, there are many players on the market, but as far as energy production is concerned, that is certainly not the case today. We all know that. The energy market in our country is not free in this respect. There is a strong player who has market dominance. For the sp.a it was particularly important that attention should be paid to this in the resolution. At the very least, we must not allow the CRM to make market dominance even greater. That would be a very damaging effect for our companies and our consumers, because we all want a freed-up energy market that will lower prices. We have to watch that very closely. It is therefore important that the resolution stipulates that we in Parliament can also talk about this at different times, in order to have control. Mr Warmoes, I would like to refer to your speech. You were a little disappointed in the socialists. However, we have thought of a solution. We cannot continue to postpone the matter for ourselves. We have always had our reserves in the file. That's right, that's right. However, it was important to reach an agreement. That is why, together with several committee members, I have worked on the text before us to ensure that there is at least a solution and that we can move forward. I repeat that we shall soon see what Europe is doing with the text. I wouldn't uncork the champagne today. I do not think we are here yet. However, we have cooperated. I conclude by pointing out that it is now up to the Minister to continue the work. Our group will continue to play its role in Parliament over the coming months and years. After all, we want a fair free market with energy production that will pave the way for a production market with more investment in renewable energy, cheap electricity for consumers and sufficient security for consumers and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u290	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the law on the release of nuclear energy almost 20 years ago, we know that we will have to manage a reduction in electricity production. We also know, always, that beyond the cost quoted by our colleague Mr. From Maegd of 120 million euros the first hour, if we have a black out, we will have one or two dead, if not more, on our arms. There are always, 24 hours a day, people hanging from a ventilator in our country. Think of VOCID-19. Or people will end up burning a red light that just disappeared at a crossroads. We will therefore have accidents, especially on the road. And yet, for almost 20 years, nothing has been done; because doing nothing, it must be said, was voting for de facto nuclear power. Today we are discussing a motion for a resolution on the Capacity Remuneration Mechanism. This is a flexible supply mechanism. After much discussion and the work of the commission, it will be a mechanism to balance supply and demand. I spoke at the beginning of this speech about the exit of nuclear power, but as Elia pointed out in her report, whatever the energy mix, this funding mechanism will be necessary to ensure security of supply, because both nuclear and solar and wind power are not flexible. Under the proposed framework, investors will be able to move forward with the necessary legal certainty in view of such a costly and long-term investment. The agreement we have reached is therefore good news for the deployment of new plant units, but also - and above all - for the developers of green energy. The agreement sets out the constraints that Parliament is asking the government to comply with, including the search for energy efficiency to limit the volume to be financed. It also provides that the mechanism will not affect the consumer's final bill in any way. Even better, when it is possible to measure the power consumed during peak hours, we can even hope for a reduction in the bill for virtuous behaviors. Note, however, that it will only be possible once the Regions have deployed the communicating meters. For us environmentalists, the management of demand during peak hours is an essential element, which allows for optimal consumption of green energy. This management is put on the same footing as conventional production via power plants or cogeneration units thanks to the technological neutrality called for in this motion for a resolution. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Ecolo-Groen Group will obviously vote for this text, because it finally allows us to move forward. On this basis, we will be able to stimulate investments in the renewable energies of the future, without any impact on the bills of families and SMEs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u291	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u292	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u293	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion was resumed. Mrs Gabriels has already presented the oral report and Mr Rigot has already made his statement. Mr Francken had begun his speech when he claimed the presence of Minister De Block. Mr Francken, I give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u294	Mr President, I am glad that the government is here. They're even with two ministers, which wasn't necessary. [[Hilarity]] One would have been enough under the Rules of Procedure. It concerns Mr Vandenput's bill, which is not present; that bill was prepared for the cabinet, so it is now with a government of 38 seats. The legislative proposal regulates the transposition of the ICT Directive "Intra Corporate Transfer." That's a copycat of the L-1 visa from the American visa system. The L-1 via is a kind of labour market system. Everyone knows the Green Card in the United States. The L-1 visa is a variant on the Green Card and is reserved for business leaders, entrepreneurs, people who want to invest in the US and people who want to contribute the high-skilled workers............................................................................................................................................. Europe considered that we should have the same system as those L-1 visas in the US and launched an ICT directive about six years ago. Belgium had several years to transpose this into Belgian law. I, as Secretary of State, have given an impetus to this, but I have not succeeded in achieving it. I am pleased that Minister De Block is now bringing forward a bill for this transposition. As you know, there are infringement proceedings. If this is not implemented in good time, a fine will be imposed. Unfortunately, Belgium is already on the penitentiary. We are almost paying fines, so we urgently need to transpose the directive in order to avoid the fines. That is how I understood it from the Commission. If we can avoid having to pay fines to the European Union, you will always find a partner in N-VA, not only because we believe that the European Union is already getting enough money from Belgium, but also because we want to be a good student of the class. The transposition of the ICT Directive is part of the transposition of the whole permis-unique procedure, with which the European Union has issued a comprehensive set of directives to facilitate labour migration from third countries. I've been able to convert the permis unique. That cost me a lot of blood, sweat and tears. I thought I'd get rid of that by simply converting it and then seeing it with the Länder. The problem is that since the sixth state reform, the Länder have full competence for labour migration. That's another thing we need to fix. Soon, we're almost there. Labour migration is now completely defederalised and now with the Länder. Part of it was, but now it's completely true. For each work permit issued, there must be a check by the Foreign Affairs Office to verify that the visa requirements are met in terms of security and access to the territory. That makes it very complex. A give a concrete case. I am a manager and I would like to invest in a new factory in the port of Antwerp. I request an L visa, the labour market visa. Flanders treats that visa and is fine with it. The Flemish services work particularly performant, that is the merit of Philippe Muyters. Now Minister Crevits has the authority to do so. Then it'll still be in the DVZ. So we still have the federal hand that mixes in and says that Flanders might like to deliver that visa, but that we still want to do a security check and check that all visa conditions have been met. That is another dragon, because it takes time, money and officials and ensures that in the long run this country is completely bankrupt and that many people through the trees no longer see the forest. In itself, I started the permis-unique procedure. It was transposed into Belgian law. As has often been the case, I have been hit by the Council of State and have had to seek a compromise with all the Länder. I did, but it took me a year and a half of my time, and a lot of trouble. These are all other political constellations: Flanders, Brussels, Wallonia, the French Community. That's what they left with for hours. Terribly complicated. Eventually, I got the approval. The ICT directive, the intercompany transfer, is actually building on that. Madam Secretary, you will find in us a partner to encourage labour migration. The N-VA is not an anti-migration party. I have never been an opponent of migration, even though I was often tried to frame in that corner. I have just seen a strong example of this at the PS when it was about a blacklist for young people who behave badly in our outdoor pools. Always trying to frame me in a corner, but intellectually, that is completely unfair. Fortunately, the Flemings know better. More and more Walloons and Brusselsers, by the way. We're not an anti-migration party. However, we need a much better balance according to the origins of migratory flows. The active, desired migration is about the skilled workers, people we need for our labour market, which we can use and use to fill large open vacancies, called beautiful les jobs and pénuria in French, bottleneck jobs in Flanders and Belgium. On the other hand, it is passive migration, in which it lacks any activating element. We want to reduce matters such as family reunification, asylum, subsidiary protection and regularisation. That seems to me to be a perfectly legitimate, fair, correct discourse, nothing racial, nothing discriminatory. There is nothing wrong with that discourse, because you know that there is a total mismatch in our country. At present, some 70% of migrants are admitted through the passive migration channels and 30% through active migration channels. The latter group includes people we consciously attract, such as students, workers and high-skill workers. In France and indeed throughout the European Union, this balance is 50-50. One of our great pains, the Minister well-known.I think that we are even allies in this, is that we are very difficult to restore that balance. There's still too much passive migration. We still have far too much passive migration. Of course, not every migrant who comes from family reunification or from regularization comes from someone who does not work and is on social security or welfare. That's not what I'm saying. I'm talking about the bigger picture. I am often told: 'Mr Francken, not every family gentleman is a profiteer'. That's so unlikelyly exhausting. That's not what I'm saying either. It is about the big picture, in which we talk about demography, about what a country does with its immigration and how it can better organise immigration. Fantastic debates are being held in the Dutch House of Representatives. We can't do that in Belgium. I've been trying for a few years and I'm just gonna keep trying. You're a long way from getting rid of me. I'm gonna keep having the debate. In Belgium, however, this is not possible because they are framed directly as being in some sort of racist, discriminatory corner. The French-speaking left in particular has a hand in this, especially when a Flemish nationalist conducts that debate, which is particularly exhausting. It's too late for that. So I'm just gonna keep going and keep making my point. I don't care. One of my tasks is that, in my opinion, we should be able to rationalise some of the discourse and we should be able to talk about demographics. Professor Paul Scheffer, a leftist professor by the way, has written a wonderful book about the demographic debate in the Netherlands, which we should also be able to have in our country. Mrs. De Block, this bill is perfect in the picture the N-VA wants. That picture is not an anti-immigration story. That's bullshit. The Flemish Interest wants a ten-year migration stop. I check every day in my mailbox to see if the bill of Flemish Interest has been filed. I still haven't seen it after a year. I hope every day that I will be able to receive Tom Van Grieken's and Dries Van Langenhove's Flemish proposal for a ten-year migration summit. After all, I would very much like to ask the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. Are tut mir leid [[.]] I really want to read that proposal. That must be fantastic. How does that party intend to achieve the ten-year migration summit? We must therefore move from the European Union, from the European Convention on Human Rights and from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Well, that's for the party to do. Then she'll have to put that in her program. It's not in there, though. Flemish Interest does not want to leave the European Union. That's not us. We stand for another and correct story. We are faced with a story in which active migration needs to be encouraged more and passive migration needs to be partly stopped and slowed down. We have already received far too many, which leads to problems in society. I never talk about individual migrants. I am not speaking about that. In the bigger picture, it's not about that at all. That's a framing that I'm really tired of and I'm all done with. Mrs De Block, you have our support for this bill. As Secretary of State, I initiated this process in 2018, but you have also outlined the broad lines. The legislation was transposed by the DVZ Legal Service. I understand that took a while. I am particularly pleased with your solution for the family members. If people with a high-skill visa are attracted to invest in Belgium, to work here or create business and an added value for our economy, then I think it is important that they can also bring their children and partners. When I was Secretary of State, we weren't sure how to solve that issue, but you solved it well in your bill. You absolutely deserve a feather for that, Mrs. De Block. The partner and children can come with us from day 1 anyway, even if the work permit for the partner may be delayed or if the application is not submitted simultaneously. I think that's very good. You have my full support for that. That is certainly a positive thing, and I would like to congratulate you on that, Madam Minister. Finally, in some strange way, an amendment by our friends from the Parti Socialiste is linked to this bill. The amendment aims to maintain the framework for the RVV at 54 judges. I did not quite understand how things went wrong in the Minister's cabinet, because from the hearing in committee I understood that the first President of the Foreign Affairs Council, Mr Bodart, reported more than in time that the framework was due to expire on 31 August and that there would best be some kind of legislative initiative from the government to settle that. That didn't happen. Was that because of the COVID-19 crisis? You have a great deal on your mind, Madam Minister, and I understand that some things are much more urgent than the judges at the RVV. I found it strange that the PS, a party that is not even in the government, tabled an amendment to a legislative proposal which is about something completely different, to settle the problem of that framework of those judges before 31 August, given that there is no longer a plenary sitting between tomorrow and 31 August. I was a little ruined by that. I expressed my displeasure about this in committee. After all, I didn't have any numbers. There was no explanation, not about catching up, not about cost, and so on. Madam Minister, we then agreed in committee to vote in favour, to let it pass, because it is urgent and we do not want fines, but to organise a hearing with the first chairman and to provide a note from your cabinet on the cost calculation. We received that, too. I have to tell you, yesterday's hearing was very enriching. The first President was very transparent and honest with Parliament. I really appreciate that. That's what I said yesterday. But we do have a problem. When I started as Secretary of State in 2014, we had a backlog of 32,000 files at the Council for Foreigners' Disputes. I managed to bring that down to about 20,000 files by the end of 2018. Madam Secretary, you have managed to reduce that further to about 16,500. It's been hanging on ever since, and it's rising again now. It is clear that 54 judges must remain temporarily. No one wants to lag behind in foreign professions anymore. Those who argue for it know nothing of it at all, because it costs a lot of money. Your note has clearly shown that too few judges incur far more costs than the wages of those judges. So let us not do that. You certainly have a very strong point there. The problem remains that the number of judgments handed down every year does not really increase, whether we have 32 or 54 judges. So there will be 22 judges, but there will be no more judgments. Why is that? That is a fundamental question. The sp.a proposed to do another workload measurement as in 2009, already 10 years ago. How can we make more or less the same judgments with 22 judges? We did not actually receive an answer to that in the hearing, which is somewhat bizarre. Mr Segers has rightly raised this point. So the number of files is not falling, which remains around 16,000 to 17,000. In the meantime, it's increasing a little bit. Madam Minister, can we enter into dialogue in Parliament in the coming months on ways to speed up the resolution of this delay in the dossiers? Mr Bodart has given good impetus and I myself have tabled a legislative proposal on the evaluation and disciplinary procedure for the Council of Foreign Ministers. That is the only court that does not have any form of disciplinary procedure for judges who are not on the line or who are deontologically out of line. That is not the case anywhere else. The Council of State does have it like all courts and courts. That is urgently needed, and you know that Mr Bodart is a really asking party. I have now tabled this proposal and I hope that I will be able to support it in the autumn. Mrs De Block, my appeal is to think very carefully about how to reduce the number of 17 000 cases, with the 54 judges. That number really has to be able to drop to 6,000 or 7,000. There are always 1,000 files that can be dealt with within a few months, and that one should simply take on board, which is not really lagging behind. The number of files is not always the same as the backlog. The second point is that the PS had a proposal that was probably not meant to be, but that has just been corrected in the Committee on the Interior. The amendment said that there would be a two-year extension instead of a two-year extension. What have we done now? The PS abstained, but there was a broad consensus on the rest. We have said that this deadline for increasing the number of judges from 32 to 54 will not expire on 31 August 2020 but on 31 August 2023. We are giving them a three-year chance to overcome the backlog, and we leave it to the Minister at that time in the spring of 2023 to make an evaluation, in transparency with the Committee on Home Affairs and with the experts on migration in the Committee on Home Affairs, whether it is still necessary to extend it further. If that's what it takes, we'll do it. If we have to increase the number, that is not taboo for me. I want to get rid of the backlog. We'll take care of that. In short, I am quite satisfied with the whole thing that is now on the table, with the amended Article 55 of the legislative proposal and with the transposition. So, Minister, you can count on the support of the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u295	I think we have had all the speakers, because Mr Demon is not here and I do not see Mr Segers either. Mrs de Block, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u296	Mr President, if I do come here at night, I would also like to say something. This proposal was requested by the first president, Mr Bodart, in a package of other measures that have been delayed. I would therefore like to thank Tim Vandenput for having submitted the bill by means of a legislative proposal. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs and all those who have expressed a positive opinion in committee. Mrs Kitir asked why this is urgent. It is urgent because if a European directive has not been transposed, there will not only be sanctions in the form of a certain amount per day, EUR 36 000 per day, which is not little, but also a lump sum of at least EUR 2 million must be paid immediately. We agreed, Mrs Kitir, that we could do something else with that money in this country. It is necessary to make up for that delay. It's a train, a chain of decisions. At my re-entry in 2018, due to the high numbers in 2015 and 2016, there was still a delay in the Department of Foreign Affairs and under-employment, including with the Commissioner General. That's where I've deployed people and been handling more files. Of course, they also went to the RvV. I also talked to Mr Bodart about it, but we were already in current business. He made a list at the time and it showed that it should be possible to carry out evaluations in order to achieve a certain quota, as is the case with other services. Protection officers also have to deal with a number of dossiers per month. Of course, that is not measured with a drop counter. Any body that respects itself must ensure that everything runs and that decisions are made. There is, of course, still work to be done in the future. I would not know if that could happen in other courts and courts, why the RV should be allergic to it, certainly knowing that the first chairman is also asking for it. They also have a number of judges who are absent for a long time, some because of illness, and that can be explained. Even if it's not because of illness, but because people just don't want to come because they've been appointed for life and maybe do something else, it might as well be. More than ten judges have been absent for a long time, leaving Mr Bodart with a very small army. There is therefore a real need for this extension. Three years should be enough to catch up. Of course we do not have a glass ball and we cannot know what will happen after those three years, after the influx. I'm glad the Chamber did its job. We were willing to make that calculation. That is a huge relationship, which costs a judge, with 180 judgments, for example. Some take more judgments, some take less. However, some judgments are also more difficult than others. The cost of the magistrate is actually only a fraction of what we now have to pay for the reception in the proceedings, because we already have EUR 1.6 million for a year before a judge. If we do this time 22, I will get 35 million euros more. So we need to see a little bit of what this is about. I am pleased that the committee has taken this decision and that we can count on your support for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u297	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u298	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1347/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1347/7) The title was amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, relating to persons temporarily transferred intra-group and amending the Act of 6 May 2009 on various provisions relating to asylum and immigration with regard to the removal of the backlog of disputes." The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens as regards intra-corporate transferees and amending the law of 6 May 2009 on various provisions relating to asylum and immigration as regards the taking up of the delay in disputes." The bill has 56 articles. The bill has 56 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u299	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u300	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Leen Dierick, Jan Briers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u301	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (75/6) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (75/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u302	Mr President, I refer to the written report, but I would like to speak briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u303	You will have the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u304	Mr President, we did not support Mrs Dierick's resolution in committee. In the meantime, we haven't changed our minds. The reason is that we do not fully understand the usefulness of this research. In the meantime, we have understood from the FANC and the operator that the modulation of nuclear power stations is the subject of a technical dossier. This will be transferred by the operator to the FANC. This is linked to the fuel cycle of the nuclear power plants. Today we have a calendar for the trip from nuclear power. I suggest that we do not have this debate again. We are convinced that this calendar must be maintained. The fuel cycle safety records remaining to be submitted by the operator to the FANC. We also understood at the operator's hearing that he is absolutely not a asking party or that he does not have a new safety record ready to submit to the regulator, because he believes that the flexibility granted to nuclear power stations today by the FANC is more than sufficient. In that sense, I think it is a waste of time and effort to look even further at this, given the law on the nuclear exit. We can better deal with the future and with the flexibility and transition of our energy system, rather than with the modulation of the very limited nuclear power plants for which the operator is not asking for an extension. That is why we maintain the position we had in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u305	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed this in detail in committee. In view of the advanced hour, I would just like to thank everyone for a constructive atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u306	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u307	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u308	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Vincent Van Quickenborne, Bram Delvaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u309	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u310	Mr President, I refer to the written report, but I would like to intervene on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u311	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u312	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is now before us is a limited proposal by Mr Delvaux and Mr Van Quickenborne, but it is an important one. This proposal gives the CREG a sanctioning power and thus strengthens the regulator, specifically in relation to possible foreknowledge in the energy sector. The energy sector is increasingly integrated and the market is also expanding. Europe also imposes comprehensive regulation to ensure transparency in the energy market. The aforementioned colleagues have rightly pointed out that there is really only one small article missing in the law to ensure that European legislation can be applied sufficiently forcefully by the regulator. In itself, we can ask ourselves whether that article is really necessary, whether many such cases have already occurred. The answer is no. However, there is only one case to be dealt with. If it is not about EUR 100 or EUR 200, it is often about large market manipulation. After the latest state reform, the CREG does not really have so many powers left. That is why we must ensure that the CREG can fully exercise the powers it still has. I am therefore very grateful to both my fellow Members for their attention to small things which at first sight appear to be technical and not a major debate, but which are extremely important for the sector. I am particularly looking forward to the next explanatory statement by the CREG, in which it will come forward with its policy plan and will always provide an insight into its work over the past year. I look forward to seeing what the CREG will do with its powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u313	Mr President, I would like to briefly outline the problem. Mr Van der Straeten has already referred to this. The CREG cannot impose fines on foreign companies operating on the Belgian market. On the basis of the current legislation on electricity and natural gas, the CREG can only act against Belgian energy companies. Foreign companies operating on the Belgian market, which, for example, would be involved in market manipulation or insider trading, emerge from the dance. The CREG is itself a requesting party. In its 2020 policy paper, she also explicitly asked that question to allow for a sanctioning power for foreign players in the legislation. It has already happened in practice in the past that the CREG, as an energy watchdog, requests information from certain players, but does not actually have a stick behind the door to enforce it effectively. That is why this sanctioning power is so important. There is no such restriction in neighbouring countries. That's normal. In the meantime, we are talking about a European energy market that does not stop at land borders. That is why this change is so important. The design of this bill is to give more teeth to our regulator, more power. We are, as it were, removing the requirement for establishment in the legislation on electricity and gas so that we can capture the foreign players who do not even have a registered office here if they do not comply with our legislation. The committee has briefly discussed this proposal and it was unanimously approved to the great pleasure of Mr Van Quickenborne and myself. We hope that this will happen again at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u314	Mr Wollants asked for the floor, challenged by Mrs Van der Straeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u315	Mr President, I would like to comment on the point I raised in committee. More and more steps are being taken on the energy market from outside our borders. As you know, there was an extension of the powers of the CREG to a number of intermediate players at the end of the previous legislature. Today we find that they are also abroad. I don't know how many people noticed it, but in the period January-February, Facebook was flooded with messages from a foreign person who tried to conclude a number of contracts with energy players, with a lot of questions to ask. A simple example. For example, there was a story in which one could compare on a website, but only between three suppliers. Those things need to be looked at. The energy market is becoming more and more international. The power stations that are on our territory today are also with large energy players in globo, who very often have their home base abroad. Then we'd better be ready for that so we can strike when things go south. The CREG must be able to exercise its powers in this respect. It will be interesting to know what the CREG is doing with its powers in the meantime. I refer once again to the proposal to be able to look at the intermediaries. So far, not too much has happened with the competence specifically requested by the CREG, but I am hopeful that it will happen in the coming period. Now that we have completed a number of dossiers, we in the committee still have the question of getting the CREG with us a number of times a year. The power over the CREG lies directly with Parliament, not with the government or the minister. It seems interesting to me that we are pushing them on the right track, as we are used to doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u316	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u317	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1229/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1229/3) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u318	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u319	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Emmanuel Burton, Vincent Scourneau, Christophe Bombled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u320	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vandenbroucke, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u321	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good night, given the late hour, I deleted 90% of my speech. I am not going to go into the content and the technical aspects. This is a bill with far-reaching implications for the military aircraft of our air force, the so-called state aircraft. I would have preferred this bill to be dealt with in the Defence Committee instead of the Mobility Committee. When dealing with this proposal, I did have some questions about the cost, implementation and technical impact of this proposal on our air force. I would have liked to have heard from the people of DOD about that. I think they could have made a good input. Unfortunately, that was not possible and this bill was pushed through rather quickly. So I've been left with my questions. That is why Flemish Interest will abstain in the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u322	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u323	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1339/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1339/3) The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u324	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u325	Not related Without report Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Marianne Verhaert, Christian Leysen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u326	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u327	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1398/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1398/3) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u328	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u329	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Tania de Jonge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u330	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u331	Mr President, since I am still here, I can report yesterday's sitting, not yesterday's sitting, because Mr Anseeeuw is the rapporteur. I can tell you that the scope of the initial legislative proposal has been extended following the adoption of two N-VA amendments. I would remind you that the consumer cheque could initially only be used in catering shops, sports associations or in the cultural sector. Thanks to the two amendments of the N-VA to Articles 2 and 5 of the bill, the consumer cheque is also allowed in retail shops which had to close due to the corona crisis. The two amendments tabled by Mrs van Peel were adopted in committee. Mr De Jonge's amendment, which was purely technical and related to the date of entry into force, was also adopted. Finally, I can inform you that the entire legislative proposal, as amended, was adopted unanimously at the committee meeting on 15 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u332	Mr President, the proposal complements one of the very wide range of social and economic support measures approved by the super-core. It concerns, in particular, consumer cheques of up to EUR 300 which employers can award to their employees to spend in the catering, cultural and sports sectors. An amendment by the N-VA will extend the scheme to micro-enterprises which have been closed for at least one month. Open Vld has, of course, supported that amendment. The cheques may not be awarded to replace wages or existing wage benefits, but must be added for employees. The cheques are awarded through a sector or enterprise cao or, if there is no syndicated delegation, by individual agreement with the employees. The cheques may be issued until 31 December 2020 and are valid until 7 June 2021, i.e. until one year after the decision of the super core to enter the consumer cheques. The cheques are exempt from personal income tax and from the RSZ. The employer may deduct the cheques as professional costs for the undertaking. The cheques were introduced by royal decree. That royal decision was approved by the Council of Ministers quite soon after the decision of the supercore. Afterwards it appeared that there was a lot of interest in several companies to be able to offer the cheques in electronic form. We want to respond to this question by means of this legislative proposal. The bill amends the scheme introduced by the Royal Decree introducing consumer cheques. In addition to paper consumer cheques, electronic consumer cheques are now also introduced via KB. To this end, we need to amend various provisions of the Law of 30 December 2009, which provides the legal basis for the recognition of issuing companies, and the Royal Decree of 12 October 2010, which lays down the concrete terms of recognition and procedures for issuing companies. We have also tabled an additional amendment, as we have just indicated, which stipulates that the date of entry into force of the bill will be linked to that of the Royal Decree. I would, of course, like to thank the members of the committee very much for the approach, the very constructive cooperation and the unanimous approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u333	The amendment was integrated into the text. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u334	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1434/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1434/7) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u335	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u336	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Theo Francken, Darya Safai, Michael Freilich, Anneleen Van Bossuyt, Peter Buysrogge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u337	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1261/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1261/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Cogolati, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u338	Mr President, I would like to begin with a small anecdote. When I was 15 years old and was at the Montfort College, I visited here once. We had a guide here in the Chamber who asked me if I knew why there is so little light in the hemisphere and why there is such a bright backlight. They were the same lights as they were at the time. He said that this was so that people would not know whether it was day or night because there is always work in Parliament. I remembered that. It's now 5:30, and I have to say it's true. Whether one sits here at 2 p.m. or at 3 a.m., one doesn't really notice the difference. So it's kind of a bubble in itself. Anyway, that for la petite histoire.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u339	You shouldn't have taken that so literally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u340	All right, let's get down to business. I have tabled a rather controversial motion for a resolution, and I have received a very bad letter from the Chinese ambassador. There has been some diplomatic talk because, of course, China is extremely powerful and it really does not take interference in its internal affairs. This is seen when it comes to Hong Kong and when it comes to the Uighurs - 1 million people who are simply locked up in criminal camps because they are Muslims. However, it is equally valid when it comes to Tibet and so on. While the United States is struggling with the worst outbreak of the corona virus in the world and the situation in India, Brazil and South Africa is deteriorating, the WHO is sending 2 experts to China to find out the origin of the pandemic, after months of international pressure by a majority of countries in the softest terms called upon Bejing to carry out a thorough investigation. An animal health expert and an epidemiologist will meet their Chinese colleagues in Beijing this weekend and negotiate the scope and conditions of a WHO-led international mission. That's what we learn from a statement from the agency. Meanwhile, China continues to stubbornly refuse to launch the real investigation before the end of the pandemic. The government in Beijing continues to argue that the virus is likely to originate from outside China and that the WHO investigation should therefore include several countries. Insinuations that they obscured the extent of the outbreak when the infections first spread are constantly blocked or even punished. Look what happened in Australia. I therefore regard the resolution as a form of support for Australia, which was punished to take the lead in this international search for answers and the truth. They must now bear the full impact because they have shown the courage not to remain silent. This is news that has been underexposed in recent weeks, especially in Belgium. So we remain hungry and have little confidence in the outcome of the current WHO investigation. We need to examine all possible avenues for the emergence of the virus which, according to official figures, has already claimed more than half a million lives and plunged our global economy into an unprecedented crisis. If the investigation into the cause accelerates the process of a vaccine or a working approach even one day, it was already worth it. The various speakers at the hearing, including Mr Holslag, but also a number of other erudite professors, also confirmed it. There is still a need for credible and objective scientific research into the causes of the origin of this corona virus. That should start now, not in a few months' time, not in a few years' time, with the necessary financial commission and renowned experts. An international study with fewer experts than that that will be on the COVID-19 parliamentary committee is just laughing at us in the face. Two experts from the WHO are now on their way to a China for a weekend and then they have to make a report. That's just ridiculous. We reiterate our demands on the government to join the call for an internationally independent and scientific investigation into the root causes of the COOVID-19 virus, to ask the European Union to mobilise the WHO to facilitate a large-scale investigation - not two researchers - under the direction of a person or panel independent of all organisations involved. It is particularly important that this person or group is independent. For the WTO and China, independence is not evident. In addition, the government must insist internationally that this should not wait until the end of the pandemic and that the scope should include the initial response of the local and national authorities. The government should ask China bilaterally to be open to an international investigation and to give its full cooperation. Should China still refuse at the end of the summer, we must use our seat on the Security Council in consultation with the European partners, because Belgium is a member of the Security Council, to put it on the agenda there too. Certainly with regard to that last question, our group will ensure that the government meets this Parliament's explicit question. I've been interviewing Minister Goffin about this. He's in line with the resolution. So, please, let us create clarity. How exactly did that virus come into being? Is that what happened at that market in Wuhan? In that biotech lab in Wuham? Elsewhere? Why can't that be clarified? After all, the next pandemic will come. If it isn't now, it's 100 years from now, 20 years from now, or two years from now, we don't know. Let us look at the root causes. The world community can only learn from it. So we are grateful that so many parties have joined in and are not satisfied with the spectacle that is now being staged. We naturally regret that some still fear the wrath of Beijing and opt for abstinence. I said in my explanatory statement in committee that this is not a political weapon against China. I have my personal judgment on the communist regime in China. I think I know what I'm talking about. However, this is not a resolution against China. This is a resolution to find out the root causes and truth, to better deal with it in the future, to deal with it faster and more efficiently, because there are still pandemics coming to the world community. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's That's what's gonna happen. We have been there for the last hundred years, and that is what is going to happen. Read the book by Joren Vermeersch about the plague in Europe, a beautiful book. People learn a lot about things. That's just, that's a cyclic thing, that's gonna happen. We can only learn, but in order to learn, we need access to information. In a communist regime like China, that is not obvious. The truth isn't important there. The truth is used there as an instrument for the regime, for communism. That's the way it is. That's extremely dangerous. We also have more and more communists in this Parliament. I find that particularly frightening. In that sense, we must not be naive. I am particularly pleased that my resolution was adopted by a large majority in committee. I hope that there will be a real thorough investigation and that Belgium will take the lead in this too, not just in the field of international human rights. We are the ones who have taken the lead in setting up the International Criminal Court in The Hague. We have our reputation in the field of upholding those basic principles of the rule of law. Mr President, I know that you always defend that in this House. It's not because it's a big and powerful player like China. This must always be careful, because they have enormous economic power. They are also increasingly buying into European companies. This does not mean that the truth and the rule of law must therefore be undermined. We must continue to defend that as Westerners. That's the Free West. That makes the difference with everything else. Mr Van Overtveldt had a meeting with Mrs Vestager today. I am very pleased that the EU will finally take action against the interference and buying-in by Chinese companies of European companies and companies, especially in this corona crisis. What's more cynical than the fact that a virus is intentional or accidental, that's what we need to investigate, that's what comes from China, the economy goes into total implosion? There are a lot of companies with liquidity problems. It's like those Chinese state-owned companies that want to buy companies in Europe. I find that to be an improbable cynicism. We have to be realistic about that. I am very pleased that the European Union will finally take action to protect our Flemish entrepreneurs, our Belgian entrepreneurs, our European companies from this interference. We can't be naive. Boris Johnson said Huawei was welcome to the market. Yesterday, he said, "No, he didn't." He was probably allowed to explain it in Washington, because now they're not allowed on the market. We can't be naive about that. This is the biggest challenge for the Free West for the next 20 years. The problem is no longer Russia, but China. I am pleased that a large majority has been found for this resolution and that there is a geopolitical realism in this Chamber to dare to face this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u341	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last but not least, this motion for a resolution is being discussed. Nor will it surprise you that a few months ago it was a matter of hours, not least Mr Francken, between the presentation of your own proposal and the presentation of the proposal on behalf of the Flemish Interest Group, but well. First of all, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Cogolati, for his report on both the Flemish Importance proposal and the N-VA proposal which were dealt with in committee. It must be a scoop that someone from Ecolo-Green wants to be rapporteur on a Flemish proposal for interest. I would like to thank you once again for that. The consequences of the spread of the coronavirus are, of course, painfully palpable worldwide. Not only in the field of public health, but also in economic and geopolitical terms. We have been in a crisis that has not been seen before. Of course, that doesn't mean I'm telling you anything new. The COOVID-19 crisis and China's share of it have already spilled a lot of ink and that share is increasingly being questioned. Obviously not without reason. An attack on international transparency, as some have called it. Indeed, whether it is the lack of clarity and exactly how this virus was created or irregularities that came to light only slowly, scientists who suddenly disappeared, samples that would have been destroyed, doctors who were silenced, etc., it is actually about the fact that there are a lot of questions in this area and that there are still a lot of uncertainties which at least lead to the conclusion that a thorough investigation is in place, that reality is particularly complex, and that it must therefore be looked at extremely critically. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore very important for the Flemish Group of the European People's Party to join us as a questioning party in conducting an independent international investigation into the truth and also into the negligence of the communist regime in China in this matter. Moreover, we need to develop a clear vision on the subject, not just on the root cause of the emergence of the virus, which is merely a representation of facts, once the investigation has ended. We must, however, have the courage to look more broadly. We must also have the courage to think in the long term, including to examine our future relations with China. It is also very important that we are critical of the outsourcing of our macro-economics to China. From whatever point of view we look at this, all these things are inextricably linked. That is why the Flemish Interest Group has tabled a motion for a resolution, which contained all these factors, both the demand for an international independent investigation into the root cause and hence the negligence of the Communist regime in China, as well as the safeguarding of strategic sectors and the production of important strategic stocks, such as medicines and medical devices, in order to keep them within the European Union. As has already been mentioned, this would make us, the Member States of the European Union, much more resilient and less dependent on products in third countries, in this case China, in the event of a possible next pandemic, which will unfortunately still be on our way sooner or later. Unfortunately, our motion for a resolution was not accepted in committee, but the proposal of the N-VA colleagues was. That does not deal with the more complete picture as we suggested, but it does ask for an international investigation into the root cause of the virus's emergence, based on a shared concern. Although this question was widely supported in the committee, the colleagues from sp.a., the PS and Open Vld, they questioned the added value of the proposals, since China has already promised to cooperate in an international and independent investigation, which makes the proposals for resolution almost superfluous. It is true that, up until about six or seven weeks ago, China has been strongly opposed to any research on the subject - strange but where it declared its willingness to cooperate. If we see under what conditions China has committed itself to this with the World Health Organisation, we should not refer to Wuhan - what price did it pay for a donation of EUR 2 billion to the World Health Organisation, call it a bribe for my part, and what letter did the Chinese ambassador send to the committee members, then at least the eyebrows frown. In addition, Beijing admitted in a breath that the investigation does not need to be carried out immediately, but can be conducted in due course. Is that what they're talking about? In any case, they do not want an investigation until the crisis is over, but it does not seem appropriate to me to see much success in that strategy. In fact, we are in favour, and my fellow Members are probably also here, of getting the investigation started without delay. Where have we heard the word "indeed"? We do attach greater importance to it, unlike some other colleagues, but that is another debate. That is why we also supported Mr Dallemagne's amendment which explicitly included it. It also found broad support in the committee. The possibility of a sound, independent investigation organised or supported by the People's Republic of China is rather minimal. In any case, just that item was the basis for hearings in committee. It was very clear from this that both the proposals before us in the committee, by Mr Francken and myself, deserved full support. In addition to the clear analysis by all speakers and the need for support for an internationally independent investigation, which was confirmed, it was also confirmed that the last request of the Flemish Interest Group proposal should be considered and that we should dare to look ahead, just because we have seen throughout the aftermath of this crisis how the regime in China has dealt with the crisis, all the more aware that we have become increasingly dependent on that regime, in terms of, for example, the production of medicines and medical devices. It is therefore important to limit the outsourcing of our macro-economy and to do what is necessary to safeguard the strategic sectors. This was very clearly confirmed by several speakers in the hearings. These may be proposals that fit in with a long-term vision, but they could better arm us against a new pandemic or another dramatic event on the world stage. As Professor Kellner pointed out at the hearing, there seems to be thorough reflection on these issues at national level and even more at European level in any case necessary and urgent. In this context, this country, Belgium, could initiate that reflection on security and call for this issue to be placed on the European agenda. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, taking all this into account, I can say once again that we have supported this proposal in committee and that we will do it again later. The question of an independent international investigation is not too early and we will therefore vote in favour of it as in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u342	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-plenair-ip053x.u343	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later. Colleagues, there's still Taiwan's motion. We decide'morning' whether or not this is added to the agenda. It was my pleasure to be able to spend a part of the night with you all. I thank the government for making the trip. In life and well-being, we'll see each other again. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on July 16, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting at 2.15 p.m. on 16 July 2020.
