ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u1	Colleagues, we will start our round of questions immediately. I understand from the Minister that we have to suspend for 20 minutes at 16:00, then we can proceed with the questioning session.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u2	Mr Minister, about two weeks ago, the programme was broadcast on television, Club Flo, a reportage to the so-called NarcoReaders, who could possibly be deployed at the festivals next year, as far as corona festivals will allow, of course, but we remain optimistic. A NarcoReader is a portable device that can analyze drugs within the minute. In this way the user can be assured that in the pill he wishes to take, there are no unexpected and very bad means. It's not that there's something good in drugs, but there's some real mess and some very dangerous stuff in between. This is already being used in the Netherlands, a country that you once addressed in the field of drug policy. I remember your promise from a long time ago, before you were Minister of Justice, of course, to smoke a joint in the Senate, all the way from the start of your political career. This is not possible in Belgium. Moreover, it is prohibited in Belgium to facilitate the use of drugs, which was also the reason why a similar pilot project at the Dour festival was banned a long time ago. If you test drugs and say that the product is good, that actually means facilitating drug use. Mr. Secretary, do you agree that the provision of NarcoReaders is prohibited by law? What is the government's position on whether or not to allow the use of NarcoReaders at festivals or parties? Are you planning a change of law to make that possible? In your view, did such measures take place with the focus agreed in the government agreement on harm reduction among drug users?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u3	Mr De Wit, of course I understand the motives of certain festival organizers who are considering using NarcoReaders, but as Minister of Justice I must point out that there is no legal framework for this in our country. The practice of testing drugs at festivals has already been investigated by the College of Attorneys General in the past. The College ruled that such a practice is unlawful in the light of the current drug law. The Committee considers that it raises more problems than it solves, even if the aim is to reduce the immediate risks associated with the use of drugs. Such a test facilitates the choice of doubting potential users to proceed to use. The NarcoReader's quality guarantee also provides a sales argument for the dealer. In the judicial field, testing de facto presupposes at least a temporary possession of illegal substances. The testing itself can also be regarded as an act to facilitate drug use and is prohibited in that qualification, although of course it is the judge who will have to judge it. Moreover, a legally organized way of testing always presupposes the agreement of the government, since it presupposes an apple to the owners of illegal drugs, which in itself remains a criminal offence. Such instruments therefore seem to me to be covered by current drug legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u4	Minister, I am actually pleased with your answer. It is also our contention that testing is problematic. You'll be careful. You point out that the College of Attorney General does not approve of the deployment of NarcoReaders and that according to our current drug law it cannot be done. You did not answer the question of whether or not the drug law could be changed in order to make it possible. Then a number of things already change legally, even though their use remains problematic, because it is an apple to those who want to use drugs to do it safely. I very much hope that I can interpret your answer in this sense too that the law will not be amended to allow NarcoReaders. We will certainly follow up on the matter. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u5	Minister, this is also a question that could not be asked last week. Mrs Verlinden has already corrected a number of matters on this matter in De Afsaak yesterday. My question actually goes back to an interview with Mrs Verlinden in De Zondag on 22 November. She stated that the police would ring if there was any suspicion that there would be a Christmas party somewhere. She added that it was not a priority and that it was not legally permitted. I find that strange because it runs counter to the zero tolerance you have announced, but also because the police can enter the residence in a number of cases. This can be done with the consent of the residents, in the act or even in the context of public health. The circular 06/2020 of the College of Attorneys General on the enforcement of measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus has been in force since 25 March 2020. It refers to a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure. On this basis, in the case of the act of the crime, a private place can indeed be entered. The express and prior agreement of the King's Attorney is the condition. In other words, it says in black and white under which conditions a residence is possible in the act. This is nothing new. Mrs Verlinden has now corrected her ruling. However, I assume that the ministers, certainly the Minister for the Interior, know the law and behave accordingly, especially if they are asked to do so by the citizens. Then the right message must also be given and the government must send the same message. Then there can be no debatable statements. We have already experienced this with the FAQs and their interpretations. A cat won't find her boy in that anymore. I assume, Minister, that you support the analysis that according to the legislation and the debrief, if there is a suspicion of illegal cooperation, it is possible to have a place of residence? Lockdown parties are regularly shut down by the police. All those present, if they haven't started walking, will be reduced. Do you know if the police are having trouble entering those private places? Do people usually give permission to enter the house? It is interesting to evaluate such cases. This COL has been in force since March 2020. Has there been an evaluation of that COL and its application? What was the result of that? Was that positive? Are you planning a consultation with your Home Affairs colleague in order to have a clear and unambiguous communication on this matter from now on? I understand, I think it was in the matter of De Aangeld, that Mrs Verlinden has already put things right. Maybe this conversation has already taken place. I think it is interesting to evaluate that regulation and the conditions for further application. After all, I think that the media clearly shows that the lockdown parties are not really over yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u6	Madam President, Minister, the tension with respect to compliance with the corona measures in Antwerp is beginning to rise. The police have the hands full with so-called lockdown parties and this within various layers of the population. Last weekend alone, the police had to intervene in more than ten parties, not only in the city of Antwerp, but also more and more in the outskirts. I refer to the recent infringements in Kalmthout and Essen. The Antwerp parquet has recently rightly announced a strict approach to these parties. The mayor of Antwerp stated that he has an appointment with the parole board to prosecute all of the violations. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Are you aware of these appointments? Will you ensure that all offences will actually be prosecuted in accordance with the lick-on-piece policy you have announced? As Mr De Wit said, people seem to be getting bolder and not just letting the police in. There was uncertainty about this within the government. Can you confirm, in the context of legal certainty, that the police can indeed enter and do so under the Public Health Act? Are there any other legal possibilities in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your questions concern the legal possibilities for the police to enter a home in the context of maintaining the corona measures. These are important and crucial questions. I do not want to go over this lightly, because it is one of our fundamental fundamental rights, namely Article 15 of the Constitution. Article 15 of the Constitution states: "The dwelling shall be inviolable; no search may take place except in the cases provided for by the law and in the form prescribed by it." In English one says my house is my castle. That is why our country is a democracy and not a dictatorship. Article 15 says that exceptions can be made. There are legally certain exceptions, and I will go over them with you, to make matters very clear; I must do so as guardian of the rule of law. First exception, the search can be done with the consent of the resident. This is provided for in the Law of 7 June 1969 and can be done 24 hours at 24 hours, under the modalities described in this Law. Second exception, the search warrant search by an investigative judge. I see that this is sometimes referred to in the context of the corona measures, but I fear that this is a mistake. For this purpose, the court must first order the investigating judge, who can then decide to issue a search warrant. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not appropriate for the maintenance of the corona measures, because it is a huge waste of time. If we know the distinction between an investigation and a judicial investigation, then we know that this is a complex matter. I can tell you that as far as I'm aware, there hasn't been a search warrant for Corona issued by an investigating judge. Third exception, the red-handed search. This means that the crime was found in the act. That is indeed described in the COL 06/2020, to which you referred, Mrs De Wit. This means that the police can enter the house at a serious clue to a so-called lockdown party. So a presumption is not enough. Serious indications, which may include a significant number of vehicles for a detached house, serious noise or other indications. Something important's coming up. If you read the COL 06/020 correctly, you will see that the College of Attorneys General has built in an additional condition. It demands that such a search in the act requires prior authorisation from the prosecutor. I read to you the letter of conversion: "The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure under which a private place can be entered in the event of the act cannot be applied without the explicit and prior agreement of the Prosecutor of the King. The application of those provisions in the present case does not, in principle, meet the proportionality requirements to which any interference in private life must comply, thus providing an appreciation by the parquet magistraat.' The prosecutor, that is, the public prosecutor and not the police, will carefully consider whether the indications are sufficiently serious and heavy-weight to allow the desecration of residence. The fourth exception is the administrative search, as provided for in Article 27 of the Police Office Act. I quote the article: 'Without prejudice to the provisions relating to emergency planning, police officers may search premises, outbuildings and means of transport, both at night and during the day, in the event of a serious and imminent threat to disaster, disaster or damage or where the life or physical integrity of persons is seriously threatened, in any of the following cases: firstly, at the request of the person who is actually enjoying a place not accessible to the public, or provided that that person's consent is granted; secondly, when the danger reported to them at that place is of an extremely serious and imminent nature which threatens the life or physical integrity of persons and cannot be otherwise averted'. Article 27, 1° therefore presupposes a request or consent from the person in question. With Article 27, 2°, we have to be very careful. It could be disproportionate to overrule Article 27, 1° with that provision. Ladies and gentlemen, every administrative and judicial authority knows that it must abide by those rules, both mayors and other bodies. I now turn to the questions put by Mrs De Wit and Mrs Samyn. Ms De Wit, the COL 06/2020 and the measures to be enforced by the police are constantly evaluated by the relevant bodies, including the Covid Task Force of the Integrated Police, the College of Attorney General, Justipol and the meeting of the Public Prosecutor and the Integrated Police. In the bosom of the government and the Consultative Committee, I have constant consultations with my colleague from the Interior. There is, of course, also consultation between the Cabinets. You will not be surprised that there is also bilateral consultation between Mr Verlinden and myself. Mrs Samyn, you asked a question about the measures in Antwerp. Following the corona crisis, a letter was issued by the Prosecutor of the King of Antwerp to the police forces on 17 March with the necessary instructions regarding the enforcement of the Ministerial Decision of 13 March 2020. This letter was subsequently revised and/or supplemented several times, taking into account the content of the newly issued ministerial decisions and the COL 06/2020 of the College of Attorneys General. The starting point has always been that non-compliance with the federal measures imposed must be addressed strictly and as a matter of priority, given the risk to public health and the drastic consequences of non-compliance with the measures. As far as enforcement policy is concerned, it has also been repeatedly stressed that the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and common sense must continue to apply, both in the determination and in the further handling of the criminal offences identified. At the start of the second corona wave, the parquet of Antwerp was confronted with a new phenomenon of lockdown parties. After internal consultation, it was decided at the level of the Antwerp Public Prosecutor to take very strict action on this phenomenon and the following paragraph was added to the third addendum of the circular of 6 November 2020. I quote: 'In addition to the directive and as already communicated, the so-called lockdown parties will be used strictly. This implies, firstly, a derogation to the OMS and MS for adults, i.e. the immediate amicable settlement and the amicable settlement, "and the preparation of an urgent report to be transmitted to the territorially competent public prosecutor's office, to describe the findings as clearly as possible; there should be no question of interrogation, and secondly, for minors, an arrest and contact with the juvenile magistrate of the service with a view to possible preliminaries before the juvenile court." This intertwined approach in Antwerp is perfectly in line with federal policy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u8	Mr Minister, this addition has gradually been added to the COL. I assume this was the result of an evaluation. You say that you are the guardian of the rule of law and I understand that entering a place of residence is something that one does not go lightly into. That wasn't the point of my question either. At first, you said that there would be tough action, with zero tolerance, while another minister said that this was not legally possible. There are, however, those possibilities, but we have now come to an end. It is clear that this can be done, clearly under very explicit conditions. I have no objection to asking the prosecutor's permission, but it is a fact that the police sometimes have to wait outside for a long time. In the meantime, you can take the flight along the back door or the garden gate. Okay, well, that's just the way it is. I know that in Antwerp, for example, the police forces and the magistrates, the parquet and the seat, are doing their utmost to deal with them very well and to prosecute them when necessary. However, we also note that there are real recidivists. This gradually extends to the outskirts of the city and eventually one will see it all over Flanders. For those people a fine is no longer enough, a short prison sentence could be of benefit, something that is not imposed today. Maybe we should think about that because I'm holding my heart for the next few days. Christmas and New Year are difficult moments for everyone because everyone is looking forward to getting together with a lot of people. Of course, you can't do that right now. You will also have read this morning that there are caterers who receive orders for 30 people. Of course, that's not to eat alone. You are also mayor yourself, so you know that the police are impossible to control all of that. We need to pull one handle, communicate very clearly and act if we can. If one can enter, then one must do so, under all conditions. You say that you are the guardian of the rule of law and I think it is important that every actor cooperates. The same applies to legislation. If we have to move or modify something, you will always find a supporter with us to make everything happen in a correct way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Unfortunately, these lockdown parties remain a source of extra spread of the virus. This cannot and must not be tolerated, especially as the offenders are fully aware of the consequences. These offenders must be dealt with hard and with all possible means, such as zero tolerance, in the interests of the health of the whole population. A comprehensive legal framework and clarity in this area are very important, otherwise even more people are threatening to ignore the rules, especially in view of the end of the year approaching.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u10	Minister, on 23 November an article appeared in the media stating that the Federal Ombudsman's Integrity Centre had started an investigation into abuses in the so-called 'Great Prison Garage' in Vorst. The abuses would be about the private use of the service cars after the hours. There would even be fuel cards used several times on the same day, suggesting that even private vehicles were filled with a government tank card. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Did you know about this investigation by the Federal Ombudsman? Does the Prisoners themselves carry out an investigation? Can you give us more information? In what way did the federal Ombudsman find out about the facts that led to the initiation of the investigation? When were the abuses first reported to the Executive Board of the Prison Office, your cabinet or that of your predecessor and the Federal Ombudsman? How long has the investigation been going on? Do you have any idea when the investigation will be completed? What disciplinary sanctions are possible against staff and/or managers who have committed or admitted abuses? Will you take an initiative yourself in this particular case? Are you planning initiatives with other services within your competence to prevent or limit such events?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u11	Ms De Wit, the Federal Ombudsman received an application for an opinion on 30 April 2020. He decided to launch an integrity review and informed my predecessor and the administration of it by letter dated 6 July 2020. The investigation took place from 24 July to 27 October, according to the provisions of the report. The Federal Ombudsman served his final report to the administration on 16 November. The report explicitly states that there is an infringement of integrity in respect of one staff member. The report is further studied in detail. It will be assessed whether the initiation of disciplinary proceedings is appropriate. Furthermore, the report does not assign integrity violations to individuals, but mainly makes recommendations regarding the organisation, management and supervision of the central garage. These recommendations will be examined and will lead to appropriate initiatives. If further analysis of the results of the integrity office's investigation in the light of the implementation of the Agency's recommendations would indicate that individual integrity violations should still be assigned, the opportunity of disciplinary proceedings will also be examined in those cases. If disciplinary sanctions should be imposed, they will be based on the provisions of the Royal Decree of 3 August 2016, which provides for the following sanctions: the rebuttal, the retention of bets, the removal by disciplinary measure, the dismissal of duties or the dismissal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u12	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u13	Madam President, Mr Segers, as always, your questions are very pertinent and deal with a problem that unfortunately cannot be solved in one-two-three. I'll give you the following elements. Any government faced with unaccompanied minors must immediately inform the Voogdij and the Foreign Affairs Service. The same goes for the police, of course. The Voogdij service must always be available 24 hours on 24 and 7 days on the permanent number for the registration of unaccompanied minors. So the service was also contacted for these young people. The Voogdij department has then given the order to contact the authorities responsible for reception. Firstly, these are the observation and coordination centres of Fedasil. The question was therefore put to the OOC of Lower-Over-Heembeek and the young people could go there. The police then took them to that center. Fedasil was called because the French language youth aid is apparently not accessible outside office hours. Thus the young people were placed in an OOC. From there, a quick referral to more adapted reception will take place. Apparently, the Flemish crisis youth aid is reachable outside office hours. However, I am aware that for very young children or in case of suspicion that young people are the victims of human trafficking, contact should be made first with the specialised youth assistance, including outside office hours. But even if the placement in a specialised youth centre succeeds, there is unfortunately no guarantee that young people will stay there. That, too, is a statement. In the event of an alarming disappearance, the Voogdij department shall always immediately designate a provisional or permanent guardian. This also happened in this case the day after. The Voogdij department has guardians specialising in certain issues, such as youth transit, young people who are victims of trafficking in human beings or young people who come into contact with Justice. In addition, the Voogdij department appoints a guardian for the profiles you list immediately or immediately after registration. It is essential that the appointment gives the court of the place of residence of the guardian the power to take up the case. The centralization at the parquet of all these dossiers in Brussels is too burdensome for the parquet. The Children's Rights Commissioners have said that there is not enough adapted assistance for these street young people. I am prepared to look at a recommendation, of course together with the Communities, as this is not my direct competence. Above all, we must not forget that this is primarily about youth aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u14	I'm gonna have to read your answer again quietly. At least someone's got to take control. I was told that the Voogdij service would not always have been accessible, but that is not correct. In some cases, that is the case. A central point of contact for both follow-up and reception and custody is necessary. There must be an authority that provides a route. In the meantime, clear agreements must be made so that young people do not slip between the loopholes of the network. Often those meshes can be a lot nicer. I can't wait to find out exactly what went wrong here, especially if you think the Voogdijk service could be contacted immediately. The Voogdij department must at least ensure that Fedasil cannot get rid of it by saying that the young people do not have the profile for a reception, orientation and observation centre, which I derived from Fedasil's communication. It is simply necessary to ensure that young people are put in the right place. These are even very young, particularly vulnerable young people. They had to be referred to the specialised facilities. At that time there was definitely room to do something. The two brothers involved could have been placed in another place immediately. Almost a year ago, both your predecessor and Minister De Block, I called for a pool of the Brussels guardians to follow up on the problems of the Maghreb youth. A guardian has already been appointed the next day. That's pretty immediate. That seems to be a very recent practice. I was told that until now there has been no systematic appointment of guardians for the Maghreb youth in Brussels. Has there been a certain step that I am not yet aware of, or are you talking about the usual practice whereby a provisional guardian is appointed as soon as possible? You have read the recommendations of the Commissioner for Children's Rights. Hopefully you will take a look at it and, if necessary, you will also see the Commissioner. In the meantime, I asked those questions a year ago. I really hope that structural progress can be made here and that this can be centralised, so that we can really start a process for that very challenging group. I'm not under any illusions. Unaccompanied minors will always disappear, no matter how great the efforts will be. However, that does not relieve us of the duty to do everything possible to ensure that this is the exception. I am, of course, counting on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u15	Mr Segers, these are truly dramatic facts. The toddler died. Indeed, lessons must be learned from this. The judiciary, as well as the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services, which has already issued a report on the case, can help us in this respect. I note that many of the reported pain points have been put to work in the meantime. Firstly, the reference massage trafficking in human beings was apparently not informed. I quote the information I am concerned about: 'In this file, the reference office of the Bergen District Court has not been informed in good time of the interplay of migrants in order to allow them to take the first steps with regard to the taking of charges'. The fact that human trafficking is a minor is an aggravating circumstance. The circular on the introduction of multidisciplinary cooperation in relation to victims of trafficking in human beings and/or a certain heavier form of trafficking in human beings sets out the procedure to be followed by the police when identifying a person who is the victim of this infringement. We must then immediately contact the magistrate of the parquet, a shelter where the victim is taken and DVZ in the case of a foreign person. The (...) on the initiative of the federal court, to which the various magistrates from the Empire are invited, came together in 2019. The federal prosecutor provided the simultaneous translation. Together with a colleague from West Flanders and the DJSOC, the federal parquet also provided training for the Bergen, the FGP and the road police, on 20 April on the phenomenon of smuggling and how to launch an investigation. The status of trafficking in human beings applies to victims of aggravating forms of trafficking in human beings. Its application in the field should be better controlled and maintained. To this end, consultations have been held between the Office of the Interdepartmental Coordination Cell to combat human trafficking and trafficking in human beings and the Federal Police. As a result, the training modules were revised and updated. Particular attention was paid to the status of victims of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. This work has been completed and training can now begin. It should be noted that the work on trafficking in human beings is often more complex than on trafficking in human beings. Why? Many victims "trust" the smuggler and hope that they can try again if an attempt fails. It is often very difficult to convince them to step into these procedures. Any authority which has knowledge of the presence at the border or in the territory of a person who claims to be an unaccompanied minor alien shall immediately inform the Voogdij and the DVZ of this fact. The Voogdij service then takes care of the younger. In other words, identification. Contacts are made with the competent authorities with a view to receiving care and a guardian may be appointed. The application to the Foreign Affairs Office and the Voogdij department is made on the basis of the description sheet. This is so prescribed by the letter of 8 May 2015, the famous description sheet of unaccompanied minors. The circular of the College of Attorneys General COL 15/2016 on the vademecum relating to the interdisciplinary charge of unaccompanied minors also explains what the public prosecutor and the police should do. The description sheet is by no means complicated. Most of the information is in the administrative report on police immigration control. In practice, when finding such unaccompanied minors, the police will first contact the permanentity of the DVZ and the Voogdij department by telephone. If there are indications of heavy human trafficking, the Voogdij service can place these young people at maximum in observation and orientation in the reception centres specialised in trafficking in human beings. If there is no time to fill in the sheet, the Voogdij service will be able to do the necessary for the reception. The van in which Mawda was killed contained persons who have declared to be unaccompanied underage aliens. However, they were not reported to the Ministry of Voogdij. Governments are, of course, obliged to comply with letters of conversion. In addition, alerting unaccompanied minors to the Foreign Affairs Service and the Voogdij Service is a legal obligation, as provided for in Article 6 of the Programme Act on custody of these types of minors. In 2019, police forces were informed about these regulations through the police's internal communication service. That will be repeated in the future. Finally, I refer to the report The police's control and detention of transmigrants following large-scale administrative arrests of mid-2019 of the Standing Supervisory Committee. It expressly states that the obligation to notify is confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive and clear answer. Justice forMawda means to me, first of all, that the court gets to the bottom of that case and judges it in all wisdom. For the sake of clarity, I have every confidence in that. Secondly, we must also ensure that the chances of this happening again are as low as possible. There is also a political responsibility in this. We must therefore learn the necessary lessons. After the Jonathan Jacob case, the Chovanec case followed and it seemed as if we had to rediscover everything. The commitment is therefore very clear to me: to ensure that we do not have to rediscover everything we could have learned from the Mawda case, in particular what went wrong in a structural way. Further steps need to be taken so that there is no second Mawda case. In the meantime, I understand from you that things have already happened. I am particularly pleased about this. It's dramatic what went wrong. Our legislation is on paper the best that there is, although there are, of course, still possible adjustments. Many people on the ground are doing their utmost, but I am counting on you, Minister, to make the need for a real culture of combating trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings clear throughout the judicial system and to ensure the right reflexes for all actors. Many of them have been questioned. That is why the coalition agreement also stipulated that sufficient efforts should be made to detect. It is also up to you to use the necessary resources. We must make a clear distinction between smugglers and smugglers in order to be able to roll up the networks on the basis of the statements made by the smugglers. You have quite rightly said that this will be very challenging. It is often even more difficult than in the case of human trafficking, that is true. Those are your duties. Those are my duties. These are our tasks when we talk about Justice for Mawda policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u17	Madam President, Minister, this Wednesday, 2 December, an interdepartmental conference (ICM) "Principles" was held at the intra-French-speaking level. It follows from a cooperation agreement concluded, first in 2009, and then in 2018, by intra-French-speaking entities in order to coordinate intervention policies related to the prison environment. Three entities are involved: the French Community, COCOF and the Walloon Region. I understand that there is a CIM involving the federal level on the houses of justice, but, unless I am mistaken, there is no CIM for prison policy as a whole. The ICD "Houses of Justice" met in February 2019 around the reintegration of radicalized convicts. Minister, has the ICD "Houses of Justice" met since February 2019? If so, can you tell me on what agenda? Are there any other meetings already scheduled? If so, on what questions? In view of the breakdown of powers in the field of prisons, would it not be appropriate for such a policy coordination area to exist at Belgian level, thus involving the federal level? Do you know if any reflections have already been made to set up a full "Prisons" ICD? If so, what are the conclusions? If not, what do you think of the opportunity to initiate a reflection on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Hugon, as your question says, the meeting that took place on December 2 was an intra-French-speaking meeting. That said, the issues concerned already benefit from a relay and a space for federal discussion, i.e. the ICD "houses of justice". The Inter-Ministerial Conference regularly brings together all ministers concerned with the matters of judicial houses, matters of which assistance to prisoners is part. Since 2015, thirteen plenary meetings have been held. A plenary meeting means meetings in which ministers participate. The last one was held on July 14 of this year. The items on the agenda were: approval of the draft minutes, the Working Group on Grants, the Working Group on Data Exchange and the Working Group on Commissions of the Chambers of Justice. This was the first plenary session since February 2019. In addition to these plenary meetings, there are ECIMs, usually to adopt a single point. The last one was held on 24 and 25 November. On the agenda was the approval of the extension dossier for road safety Vias to bicycles and INTRO groups. Finally, working groups are regularly set up in the context of specific issues. This will be the case tomorrow, 10 December, for a working group to examine the process of implementing the subsidies allocated to the projects for the supervision of alternative measures. You see, this ICD is active. It is therefore first of all through this federal platform that I think it is appropriate to work, since the Minister of the French Community, who has the institutions of justice within her powers, is present there, and she will not fail to raise any points of attention. I will ensure that the meetings are more regular and that there are issues related to the implementation of a detention plan aimed at reducing recidivism, as outlined in my policy note. You wrote it down. I would add that the North and South Regional Directorates and the administration of prisons also have regular meetings with the central administrations of the courts, ensuring at this level the necessary relay to examine any problems that may arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u19	Thank you very much, Minister, for these precise and detailed answers. I understand that, in your opinion, for the time being, there are enough coordination spaces. I really wanted to ask you the question of a prison ICD because, as you say in your policy note, you have the ambition to work on the training of prison officers. It seems to me that modules could be envisaged in collaboration with the Communities in particular, for example for modules linked to access to culture. It would be useful to set up this type of space, no matter where it is, whether it is a "prison" ICD or something else. Collaboration with federated entities, for example on this aspect, seems to me to be truly desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I will be very brief by referring to the text of my question as it was delivered to you. The question is about a process that will not be evident, given the current diplomatic circumstances with Iran, in the context of the foiled bombing in 2018, with an Iranian-Belgian couple and an Iranian diplomat, whether or not supposed to. At least we read in the media that accusations are being made against Iran that the diplomatic status would have been misused to organise state terrorism. In my question I raised some very specific questions. I refer, without reading it, to the text tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u21	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, thank you for your interesting question. I absolve my words. I can answer your first question as follows. Assadollah Assadi was arrested in Germany by the German police and not by the Security of the State following an arrest warrant, delivered by a Belgian investigating judge. The project was coordinated in close cooperation with the Bundeskriminalamt and the Munich Public Prosecutor General. In parallel with the Belgian investigation, an investigation was also opened in Germany on the same man for espionage and terrorism. In that investigation, an arrest warrant was also issued on behalf of Mr Assadi. The results of the German research are an integral part of the Belgian research. There are no further criminal proceedings in Germany. It was agreed with German colleagues that criminal charges would be imposed on Mr Assadi in Belgium. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that the process took place on 27 November 2020 and 3 December 2020. The case was considered and a judgment is foreseen on 22 January 2021. Of course, I am confident that the Belgian justice system will do its job in this case of alleged international terrorism within a reasonable period of time. I cannot and will not anticipate any further consequences in the event of a conviction. We will look into the matter together with the Foreign Minister. For me, however, the principles of the rule of law are paramount. Criminal proceedings and execution must be guaranteed. In reply to your third question, I would point out that such matters are discussed, inter alia, in the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security, which is known as the SCIV. It is not for me to comment on this further. In reply to your fourth question, I can only say that there was no cooperation with the Iranian authorities at judicial level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u22	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your very clear answers. I share your conviction and I also have the utmost confidence that the Justice Department will judge this matter in complete independence. In particular, I support you in saying that criminal proceedings and the execution of sentences must be respected and enforced after a final ruling has been made on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u23	Minister, recent news gives us a new example of class justice in our country. In 2016, Avenir reported that Carlo Di Antonio (cdH), then Minister of Public Works, had approved the expropriation of land belonging to a company, of which he himself was a minority shareholder. Another of these lands belonged to his own brother. It is stated that in his capacity as "expropriator", it was Mr. Di Antonio who was required to fix the purchase price of these land. Carlo Di Antonio is described, in an article in the Vif, as "cumulative good public fortunes and fruitful private affairs", both "half-fund runner, festival organizer, entrepreneur, owner, managing director, deputy, mayor prevented, minister". In a word as in a hundred, a cap collector who attracted the attention of the general prosecutor's office. This week, however, we learn that the proceedings against Mr Di Antonio on suspicion of a conflict of interest have been the subject of a criminal transaction for the sum of EUR 5,000. "A reasonable amount," according to Mr. Di Antonio, adding that he accepted "to have peace". Mr. Di Antonio has enough to pay the price of tranquillity, so he closes the investigation of a bank transfer, while shoplifters find themselves in prison. I regret the lack of will on your part to simply abolish the extended criminal transaction, which the PTB has long been demanding. This transaction is all the more shocking as it involves the embezzlement of public money. It is quite possible for you immediately to exclude the transaction in this case, either by legislation or by amending the circular of 24 May 2018 to make it a criterion of exclusion. Therefore, Minister, are you going to prohibit the use of the criminal transaction in cases of misappropriation of public money? How many criminal transactions have been concluded for this type of offence? Finally, what is the total amount of transactions thus concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u24	Mr Boukili, with regard to your second and third questions, I invite you to address a written question, to which I will not fail to reply. To answer your first question, I will be as clear as I am brief. For these types of cases, I refer to the government agreement, which states that the judicial order and police will be strengthened for the detection and prosecution of financial offences. The criminal transaction, on the other hand, will eventually be evaluated and adjusted on this point, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u25	Mr Minister, thank you for your non-response, because it is always the same answer you give me! You are going back to the evaluation, when the issue of criminal transactions has been sufficiently assessed. Take, for example, the Publifin case with Stéphane Moreau or the HSBC case! I think it is time to take note that this criminal transaction strengthens class justice. Moreover, this feeling is growing among the population. It is shameful, in a country governed by law like ours, that a person who has hijacked public money will get away with a transaction of 5,000 euros. I do not know how one can accept this when one aspires to a rule of law and fair justice. I don't understand that! I will ask you a written question for the last two points, but I remain equally shocked by the lack of reaction to class justice through the criminal transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u26	Madam President, Minister, on 27 November last, the Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique (CFFB) drew attention to discrimination against women in prisons. Women account for only 4 to 5 per cent of the total number of prisoners. The CFFB notes that their minority status exposes them to discrimination on several levels. In access to health care, work and social relations, female prisoners are not equal to male prisoners. I would like to stress here a specific reality for women in the field of hygiene: periods of menstruation. The ASBL BruZelle, which fights against menstrual precariousness, defines it as the difficulty of access or lack of access for menstruated persons to sanitary protections, and by extension, as the obligation to make a choice when purchasing essential products and to waive, in whole or in part, the purchase of periodic protections for lack of financial means. Menstrual insecurity is a real problem for inmates. When sanitary protections are available free of charge, they are inadequate; when they are cantinable, they are at prices greatly increased by their cost outside the walls. We're talking about an increase of 6-66%. The risk is that inmates will use cost-saving strategies that may be harmful to their health. In addition, access to basic equipment such as running water, adapted toilets or garbage cans is not always guaranteed. Mr Minister, for the time being, it is thanks to associations - for example the ASBL I.Care and BruZelle in Brussels-Berkendael - that women prisoners can obtain a suitable protection kit every month. Their work is very beneficial, but it seems to me that it is primarily up to the public authorities to ensure free access to appropriate and necessary equipment in order to enable prisoners to live these periods in a dignified manner. Minister, at what price are sanitary protections sold in the various prisons for women? What would be the budget needed to provide inmates with free and adequate protection? More broadly, what adjustments would be necessary to ensure that each inmate had access to the basic equipment needed to live his periods of menstruation with dignity? Will these considerations be taken into account in the construction of new prisons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u27	Mrs Hugon, prisons ensure that the lists of canteens include a variety of offers offering essential products and therefore purchases as cheap as possible. As with all prison canteens, there is a difference between the prices charged and charged in outside shops, mainly due to the presence of an intermediary - in this case, the institution's supplier. Prices may fluctuate depending on the suppliers. The Berkendael prison mentions, as an indication, the price of the cheapest protections, i.e. 1,27 euro for 30 napkins of maxi and normal type. The prison administration was also aware of the difficulties faced by women prisoners. It is clear that we do not remain inactive, especially in the area of women's hygiene, which is a fundamental need. As a result, the system in place in women's prisons provides for the donation of a kit, including sanitary towels. They are regularly distributed to prisoners who cannot afford to purchase them from the prison's internal store. In addition, prisoners in social poverty may receive a monthly amount which may be used to cover the costs of purchasing sanitary towels. This social assistance shall be refundable where possible for the person concerned. In addition to these in-house facilities that prisons make available to inmates, and in Brussels facilities, two ASBLs provide sanitary towels of different brands free of charge. These same associations can also deliver a cloth bag containing the said towels, available in common sanitary facilities. Posters are also displayed to inform interested parties of the different ways in which they can be obtained. Finally, women who are able to buy sanitary towels of a given brand do so by their own means, as is the case outside. In this sense, the way in which prisons operate reflects the way in which society operates. Given these factors, and given the fluctuation in the prison population, it is difficult for me to estimate the exact cost of free sanitation. As explained in the second question, all inmates have access to basic equipment in one way or another. Finally, the purchase and provision of such equipment are not part of the construction contracts (?). These are internal processes. They are called upon to continue regardless of the institution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. I see you've already thought about the question. To review the protections that are offered free of charge in prisons, according to my feedback: "They don't stick. They're too thick. They cause irritation. They are not individually packaged and are distributed by prison officers who are sometimes men, which does not make these products more accessible." I will continue to pay attention to this particular dimension of the discrimination experienced by women who have to incur these costs that men are not aware of. I saw an estimate pass: for Berkendael, providing adequate protections in sufficient quantity for women prisoners would amount to 750 euros. With extrapolation to all inmates, it seems to me that the costs to public finances would not be entirely excessive either. I would really like to see some thought being given to making further progress in this area. More research may also be needed on inmates who include this gender dimension because a lot of inmate research focuses on the typical male profile. It might also be useful to be able to carry out studies that took into account the specific problems faced by women in prisons. I will certainly come back at other times and with other questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u29	My dear colleague, I can hardly answer this question in relation to the subjects for which I am competent. If the facts are proven, they could indeed be illegal practices against staff members within a private company. Even if these acts are reprehensible, they do not fall within the competence of the State Security. Indeed, if the term "espionage" is well used in the issue, it is not a threat that can be linked to a fundamental interest of the State, as provided for in the 1998 Act. The fact that an employer violates the privacy of its employee may be subject to criminal prosecution. It therefore seems to us that the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Police, and even the SPF Economy would have more legitimacy to give elements of an answer to this parliamentary question. The facts cited by the honourable member are offences that infringe on privacy and are, in principle, strictly prohibited. On the basis of the information available to me, no police department has become aware of a complaint or a complaint. I am not aware of any complaints that may be filed with the Privacy Commission or the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u30	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, I also introduced this question to the Minister of Economy. Skills are shared. So I'm really reassured that at this point, you can inform me that there is no complaint to date and that at the level of privacy, Justice has not been seized. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u31	Madam President, Mrs Thibaut, to answer your first question, freedom of the press and freedom of expression are fundamental rights. There are others in our country, but these are also fundamental rights. A priori, I believe that the Hold-up documentary is within the framework of the principle of freedom of expression enshrined in article 19 of the Constitution. The law provides for some limitations to this article. Thus, the law punishes incitement to discrimination, hatred, violence or segregation, malicious disclosure, slander, defamation and insult. Currently, there is no law in Belgium criminalizing false information or misleading information per se. Draft amendments to the Penal Code, which were discussed in the previous legislature, included a proposal for an article criminalizing misinformation. This article is, however, of very limited scope because it provides for the punishment of the transmission of information to the Belgian authorities, with the aim of criminalising attempts to deceive Belgian political decision-makers. However, it should be possible to prove an intention directed towards the public authorities, which severely limits the scope of the article and its potential application. Therefore, if none of the above offences are committed in the report, the only thing that can be done is to raise awareness and educate the general public about this issue. I come to your second question. In order for these crowdfunding platforms through which project financing is organised to be held accountable, first of all, it would be necessary to establish the offence committed by the organisation, association or legal person whose funding is supported by these crowdfunding platforms. It would then be necessary to establish their responsibilities in this offence and to demonstrate that they knew that they were financing a criminal project. In the specific case of Hold-up, we find it difficult to demonstrate this. The Belgian law, namely the Code of Economic Law (Article 12.19), places on information society service providers, such as hosting companies with an effective knowledge of the activity of illegal information, the obligation, on pain of responsibility, to act promptly to withdraw the information or to make it impossible to access it. In conclusion, it could be theoretically possible to put crowdfunding platforms face to face with their responsibilities. But in practice, this is not always possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for that detailed answer. I therefore understand that the law is well done in Belgium but that in the face of misinformation, it is the vigilance of everyone who is responsible for establishing the offence. In any case, I will continue to be vigilant with regard to this possible misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u33	Madam President, Mrs Thibaut, I come immediately to your first two questions. In Europe, the VOCID-19 pandemic seems to have gained ground in QAnon theory among population groups sensitive to conspiracy theories. The QAnon theory is based on the premise that a small group of deeply corrupt elites pull strings behind the scenes. This point of departure has some similarities with ideas conveyed in the conspiracy circles related to VOCID-19, which facilitates the dissemination of such conceptions. As in the United States, European followers of QAnon theory are mainly at the extreme right of the political spectrum. In Belgium, the attractiveness of this theory remains relatively limited for the time being, but in recent years it has moved to the main social media platforms, which has increased its popularity in our country in 2020. The VOCID-19 pandemic and its containment seem to have made a number of people more receptive to such ideas. Flags with the QAnon logo were displayed during a few demonstrations against the measures relating to VOCID-19 in Belgium. Because of the threat posed by this increasingly popular theory, Facebook and Twitter have in recent months removed a large number of QAnon groups and pages that are now considered incompatible with the terms of use of these platforms. Previously, there were several groups with about a thousand sympathizers. However, OCAM is not able to provide the precise number of people who actually adhere to this theory. Estimates range from a few hundred to a few thousand. In answer to your third question, I can tell you that we live in a democratic State governed by the rule of law, whose freedom of expression is one of the foundations. Sympathizing on social media with QAnon conspiracy theories is therefore not a crime in itself. If these sympathies are followed or accompanied by offences or crimes, the necessary will be done by our police and by our justice. For example, there were threats against the Flemish Minister-President by an individual who was a supporter of QAnon's theses. A report was drawn up and the person was interrogated by the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u34	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I'm somewhat surprised by the numbers you're quoting from me, even if it's a fork. You're talking about a few hundred or even a few thousand followers. I think it is high time for the intelligence services to give priority to sects and such movements, because the situation is worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u35	Mrs Thibaut, with regard to your question about Grey Wolves in Belgium, the local branches of the Turkish Federation in Belgium, which are located in Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Genk, Heusden-Zolder, Eisden, Châtelet, Marchienne, Cheratte and Verviers, regularly organize sociocultural events in their premises in different cities, where a large community of Turkish origin resides. In recent years, there have been no problematic activities of the Grey Wolves in our country. There is now no known person in the common data bank managed by OCAM as part of the Grey Wolves. With regard to your question on the concrete threat, I can tell you that at the moment there is no information indicating the existence of a concrete threat from the Grey Wolves or the FTB in Belgium, while a few radical individuals who could, in the name of Turkish nationalism, borrow the symbolism of the Grey Wolves, cause violent incidents, are followed in this context. Finally, as you know, the Belgian Constitution guarantees freedom of association. There is no legal possibility to put certain groups, certain organisations, outlawed, as in France. We can prosecute and condemn individual members, as we have done for Sharia4Belgium members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u36	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u37	Minister, my first question was tabled before your decision. It involved only dates and timing. Since then, we have received answers. Then, after the weekend, the intelligence services, in the context of the dossier of recognition of the management of the Great Mosque of Brussels by the Belgian Muslim Executive, made their report particularly appealing. In addition to the evidence of problematic management as well as the probable suspicions of personal enrichment, there was a report of infiltration of the Belgian Muslim Executive by Moroccan intelligence services. Minister, what is the nature of the intelligence provided by the Moroccan intelligence services? Is it a desire to gather information about Belgian-Moroccan citizens? Is it a desire to control the representation of Muslims in Belgium in order to strengthen the interests of the Moroccan Kingdom in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u38	Madam President, Mrs Thibaut, the request for recognition as a local community of the Great Mosque was submitted to the Brussels Region in December 2019. The Brussels Region forwarded the file to the SFP Justice. After monitoring, the FPS forwarded the case to the State Security in mid-March 2020. Normally, the State Security takes four months to collect all opinions. Given the coronavirus pandemic, the security services encountered difficulties in visiting the Great Mosque, which was closed for a period and then opened with restrictions. For these reasons, this four-month period has been extended twice. Finally, in mid-October, I received the negative opinion of the security services. My office took the time to study the case and, on December 3, 2020, I sent a negative opinion to the Minister-President of the Brussels Region. Mrs Thibaut, you also raise the question of the nature of the intelligence activities carried out by the Moroccan intelligence services. You understand that, in this case, I cannot comment in detail on the content of the activities of the Belgian intelligence services. However, it is clear that this is a matter of interference and espionage. I am clear on this point. This means that attempts are made clandestinely and illegally to influence the religious practice of Belgian citizens. The reality is that foreign regimes divert Islam for ideological or political reasons to create parallel communities here, to prevent Muslims in our country from developing their own progressive Islam. Ultimately, this makes the integration of Muslims more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u39	Minister, the information you provide to us is serious: espionage and interference. This is a delicate moment that we must go through now. There is indeed a need to renew and reorganize the management bodies of the ASBL and to clarify those problems of interference which are unbearable and intolerable. Nevertheless, the Muslim executive must be the government's partner in the fight against religious radicalism. I invite you, so I invite you to build bridges. It is essential to put the job back on the table and find a solution to clean things up. I trust you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u40	In WhatsApp I see that the questions Nos. 55011361C, 55011362C and 55011363C by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh may be converted into written questions. She's also asking for the answers to be e-mailed. This is about the lead time of criminal execution and criminal proceedings in courts, the lead time of criminal proceedings in the prisons, and the double family names in people with a migration background. I have prepared three good answers for you, and I will forward them to you. They were also questions on the basis of written answers I had given. We follow everything very closely. My cabinet knows that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u41	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your many questions on this subject. First of all, with regard to Mrs Hugon's questions, I confirm that, during the first wave, 508 interruptions in the execution of sentences were applied and 209 early releases were granted and since the introduction of the new measures, 269 interruptions in the execution of sentences and 117 early releases were granted. The current slight decline does not allow you to provide these figures. For your fourth question, the data must be collected by the penal institutions on the basis of the concrete dossiers. To your 5th question: the imposition of quotas for the pre-trial detention of persons requires a more in-depth debate, a more detailed analysis of the risks. It requires a method of operation, of consulting calculations fundamentally different between cases handled by the Public Prosecutor's Office and those dealt with by the investigating magistrates. The hasty introduction of such measures in times of corona crisis poses fundamental risks to the security of society and the conduct of judicial investigations. In practice, every effort was made to avoid pre-trial detention, which was still the case. To the extent possible, pre-trial detention with an electronic ankle strap has been used. To your 6th question: Circular COL 7 of 26 March incorporating the directive of the College of Attorneys General, concerning the suspension of the execution of certain convictions during the crisis of the coronavirus was repealed on 26 June this year. In order to control the workload in prisons and judicial houses, it was not considered appropriate to execute all cases suspended at once. At the time of the abrogation of the above-mentioned circular, therefore, directives were provided to spread the execution of prison sentences over time, with the requirement to complete – by 1 October of this year at the latest – all files for which the execution of the sentence had been suspended. For the first wave, there were a total of 2,500 cases whose execution was suspended: for the first period, until 31 March included, 822 convictions; for the second period, from 1 April to 30 April included, 693 convictions; for the third period, from 1 May to 31 May included, 744 convictions; and from 1 June to 26 June, 241 convictions. With regard to the COL 7 bis of 7 November last year, therefore during the second wave, the Public Prosecutor's Office does not yet have figures. They cannot be provided within the time limit, but they can be communicated to you later – as we usually do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u42	Minister, thank you for your numerical answer. I understand that at this stage you are not in a position to provide all the figures, given the recent adoption of these measures following the second wave. I have heard of your intention to communicate them to us in due course. Perhaps I will pass on written questions on this matter to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u43	Julien will do what is necessary!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u44	Mr Minister, I refer to the Royal Decree of 26 December 2015 laying down the conditions under which organisations can benefit from financial assistance for the recruitment of staff responsible for the supervision of judicial measures. On the basis of that Royal Decree, as Minister of Justice, you can allocate budget from federal funds to a municipality, province, inter-municipal partnership, non-profit organisation or public utility foundation. This allowance is intended to accompany a service, community service, training or treatment under a judicial measure. Local initiatives have often used this budget for, for example, specialised drug aid. Especially in such cases, prevention and assistance can go hand in hand with a judicial approach. You are also in favour of this in the coalition agreement, so these budgets are crucial in an integrated approach, but they are proving to be absolutely inadequate today, as is often the case in many areas. The government intends to invest extra in justice and to focus more on guidance and assistance, alternative sanctions and electronic monitoring. Since the Länder are responsible for these measures, this has a very large impact, because despite the additional tasks, the resources available to them do not increase. The said KB could respond to this concern, hence my questions, Minister. Can you give an overview of the organisations that have already received financial assistance on the basis of the Royal Decree of 26 December 2015 as well as the corresponding amounts from the entry into force of the Royal Decree? Will you use the KB as a federal government to provide additional resources for assistance and alternative sanctions? If so, will you then involve the Communities and give them the necessary autonomy in how they intend to spend this budget for their powers? If not, how do you intend to make it possible, in practice, to achieve the stated intention contained in the coalition agreement, if the budgets, as we see today, are not enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u45	Mrs De Wit, I can give you an overview of the organizations. Pursuant to Article 69 of the 1994 Law, grants are indeed granted to organisations responsible for setting up judicial authorities in the execution of penalties and measures. In practical terms, it is intended to provide support for a service, a service, a service, training and guidance within the framework of a judicial measure. Initially, this was limited to personnel costs allowances and means of action for additional recruitment and operating costs. The Law of 12 May 2014 provided for the possibility of multi-annual allowances, in addition to annual allowances, to local authorities designated by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. The law of 2016 created the possibility to also provide for an allowance for the performance of a contract. These allowances are entered under a specific budget article in our general expenditure budget. The conditions under which these organisations can benefit from financial assistance for the recruitment of staff responsible for the supervision of judicial measures have been determined by means of implementing decisions since 1 January 2016, in particular the Royal Decree of 26 December 2015 and the Ministerial Decree of the same date. Individual grants granted to beneficiary organisations under the global plan are the subject of an annual royal grant decision. As regards the evolution of the projects and the grants, in 2015, there were 80 projects worth EUR 9,132.141, in 2016 81 projects, in 2017 83 projects, in 2018 82 projects and in 2019 81 projects, each amounting to approximately the same amount. We will also give you the annual decisions as an annex to my reply. In it you will find the amounts per organisation and the organisations that have received financial assistance. You're asking me to make use of the Royal Decree this year. Now, the use of the budgets and the release of available appropriations is discussed annually within the IMC Justice Houses. Within that IMC, the Communities shall decide how the appropriations are to be granted. On Friday 11 December, the Royal Decree for 2020 will normally be dealt with at the Council of Ministers and hopefully approved, with your support, Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I will support you in that. I am pleased to hear that this is how it is being done, so that financial aid can be provided to help achieve the objectives of the coalition agreement. I suspect, however, that you will have to include this in the budgetary control in March, as the corresponding item for 2021 has been set to zero in the expenditure budget that is now in the Chamber. I suspect that in March you will indeed register the amount of EUR 9 million, or any other amount, as nothing has been allocated today. I note that this will be presented to the Council of Ministers and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Moutquin's 55011499C was converted into a written question. Minister, I understand you need to leave us now. However, there are no more questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u48	Madam President, I still have five questions. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that there is a meeting this afternoon with the services of honour. That was long planned, but following the judgment of the Council of State which was issued yesterday, there is a discussion with them. I promised I'd be here for a while. My head of the cabinet had these discussions, but if you will allow me, Madam President, I would like to ask for a suspension of the sitting so that I can address them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u49	Then we'll suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u50	Mr Minister, Belgium was committed to finalising preparations for the entry into office of the European Public Prosecutor's Office for the month of November 2020. Once again, unfortunately, we are late and have therefore been called to order by the European Commission on 2 December. We can no longer afford to drag, since the next deadline falls on 15 January, that is, in a little more than a month. While only our German, Estonian and Slovak neighbours have already appointed their delegated prosecutors, we cannot take lightly the delays in taking over this new body, given the important financial interests it aims to protect. We must ensure, as foreseen in the timetable of the European Commissioner for Justice, Mr Didier Reynders, that the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be operational at least on 1 March, i.e. with two months delay on the original timetable, or that our country is irreproachable if there are still delays. Therefore, can you shed some light on the following questions? How are the procedures for the selection of delegated prosecutors conducted? How many delegated prosecutors are to be appointed for Belgium? Will our country be able to finalize the selection procedures before the deadline of 15 January set by the European Commission? Do you consider that the date of 1 March, which was issued by European Commissioner Didier Reynders, is more realistic? Why? Are your European counterparts also inclined to meet this deadline? Has Belgium already made the necessary legal and administrative adjustments to comply with the Regulation implementing the European Public Prosecutor's Office? I ask you the question because in France, this week, the National Assembly is debating this issue. If not, what measures still need to be adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, the European Delegated Prosecutors will be appointed by the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 17 of the EPPO Regulation and by the decision of the College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office adopted on 16 November 2020 and published recently. The number of European prosecutors delegated per participating State must be approved by the Head of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Laura Kövesi, with whom I had a constructive meeting last Monday. By exchange of letters at the beginning of November 2020, Belgium undertook to make available to the European Public Prosecutor's Office two full-time delegated prosecutors and to establish a reserve list with two other candidates. The selection of candidates at Belgian level will be carried out in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 309, § 2 of the Judicial Code as inserted by the Act of 5 May 2019. This article also specifies the criteria to be met by these candidates. The call for applications will be published very soon at the Belgian Monitor - this week or next week. The European Commission has been fully informed of this situation, as well as of the time required for the selection of candidates. I would point out that Belgium does not act as an exception here. The majority of participating States are at the same stage. As you can see, the decisions taken at the central level of the European Public Prosecutor's Office concerning European delegated prosecutors are quite recent. The College of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which had to adopt them, was itself appointed several months late in relation to the European Commission's forecast work schedule. However, all these central-level decisions were essential for the start of the selection procedure at decentralised level. This explains why this process did not succeed earlier. Second question: the procedure for the selection of European prosecutors and the European Public Prosecutor has been included in the Judicial Code by the Act of 5 May 2019. Additional legislative amendments have been prepared to the Criminal Code, the Judicial Code, the Criminal Investigation Code, the Law on the Use of Languages in Judicial Matters and the Customs Law. They were approved by the Council of Ministers in Belgium on 27 November and are currently being studied by the Council of State. They will therefore be presented to Parliament shortly. Delegated European prosecutors will be provided with administrative assistance in the form of a separate secretariat. The Royal Decree setting out its composition and operating procedures has been approved by the Secretary of State for the Budget and is currently being reviewed by the Minister for the Civil Service. As far as your third question is concerned, my administration and I are making every effort to ensure that the European Public Prosecutor's Office can start its investigations as soon as possible in the area of infringements of the European Union's financial interests. The European Public Prosecutor's Office will become operational on the date set by the European Commission, after the necessary steps have been completed at central and decentralised levels. It is likely to be spring 2021. Until then, our Public Prosecutor's Office is continuing its work in the investigation and prosecution of acts related to financial crime, including those committed against the European Union. The status of Belgium's internal procedures is similar to that of the majority of the other 21 participating States.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to learn that things are speeding up, that the necessary measures have been taken at the level of the Council of Ministers and that Parliament, in turn, will be able to endorse these same measures. I am also pleased to hear that the call for applications will finally be published this week or next week, and that the European Commission has been notified of this delay, which is perfectly understandable in view of the measures to be taken. However, I would like to know when the European Commission has been notified of this, because the call to order with regard to our country and the other failing or late Member States dates from 2 December. Therefore, if you tell me that the European Commission has been notified of this delay and that in the meantime it is reminding us of order, something escapes me... For the rest, I mean that the entry into force is expected for spring 2021, knowing that we are also dependent on the work done by the other Member States. Indeed, all Member States must appoint their delegated prosecutor so that this European Public Prosecutor's Office can be effective. I am therefore pleased that Belgium is aware of its responsibilities and has the will to assume them. Are you able to give me this clarification today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u53	Mrs Rohonyi, I did not understand your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u54	Mr Minister, you are telling me that the European Commission has been advised that the call for applications, with regard to delegated prosecutors, will be published in the Belgian Monitor this week or next week. Therefore, the Commission should not worry about whether or not Belgium is fulfilling its obligations. But the press has seen that the European Commission called Belgium back to order on 2 December 2020. I do not understand why the European Commission is reminding Belgium to order while in the meantime it knows very well what steps Belgium is taking. Or was this call to order widespread to all Member States?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u55	This was a general call to order. On Monday, 7 December 2020, I met Laura Kövesi and reassured her about the deadlines, the communication, the jury started by the College of Attorneys General, the selection and the transfer of names at the beginning of January. It is true that the European Commission is a little critical, but I have found that the entry into force scheduled for 1 January 2021 would be delayed in spring 2021. Perhaps this is also a self-criticism on the part of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u56	It's always constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u57	Madam President, Ms Hugon, the use of digital platforms during detention increases the independence of prisoners and helps them to facilitate their reintegration into an increasingly digital society. It is important for inmates to learn how to use digital forms of services. A prison can also offer them learning opportunities in this regard. While modernization and implementation are still under consideration, there are already several digital services in prisons, such as e-learning, cell PCs, family visits via video conferencing, and cell telephony. In addition, in the prisons of Leuze, Marche and Beveren, a digital platform allows inmates to have independent access to television, intranet, report notes, video on demand, prevention information. It also allows limited access to the Internet and news. Beyond the opportunity offered by digitalisation, the prison administration is aware of the need to supervise and accompany prisoners in this context with the ICT and digital services provided. During the implementation of the platforms in the three prisons mentioned above (Leuze, Marche and Beveren), various accompanying initiatives were launched. These include, for example, explanations of pictograms, a manual of information sessions carried out by staff members, as well as information sessions organized by inmates for their co-inmates and accompanying inmates by a co-inmate who speaks the same language. The federated entities have in the past offered computer training. This offer is becoming increasingly important in our digital society and we will launch consultations with our partners on this issue. The experience in the three prisons will improve future implementations. The user-friendliness and ease of use of the platforms to be developed will receive the necessary attention. In general, each detainee can always rely on the assistance of prison officers, technical experts, the psychosocial service, volunteers, prison management or co-prisoners in the event of difficulties in this regard. An inmate who is unable to use the platform properly, who is unable to read or write, may still have access to the service through another route. This is also part of the mission of prison staff. Human support is always possible to overcome the difficulties encountered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u58	Minister, I am pleased to know that you intend to evaluate the pilot experiments carried out in the three prisons, as you have just said, to improve what needs to be done and to ensure that what is already working well continues. It is important for us that digital progress should not be made at the expense of the least equipped users. Thank you for your attention on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u59	Mr Segers, as far as your first question is concerned, on the possibility of forcing Twitter to adapt the procedures, I do not think it is possible or appropriate to force a company to adapt its internal procedures. That said, Twitter makes its services available on Belgian territory and, as such, on the basis of the Yahoo ruling of the Court of Cassation, is obliged to cooperate in the proceedings of the Belgian judicial authorities. The Law of 4 May 2020 on combating the non-consensual spread of sexually tinted images and recordings has allowed the institute to act in law for victims of such non-consensual spread. The law provides for two possibilities: the Procurator of the King may order that all appropriate technical means be used to make the images inaccessible and on the basis of the Code of Justice, the President of the Court of First Instance may order that the distributor or any intermediary performing an activity use all appropriate means to remove the images immediately or to make them inaccessible within six hours of service. The refusal to cooperate in those measures has been punishable by Article 371/3 of the Criminal Code. On your second question, the dissemination of images of a naked person or sexually tinted images without the consent or knowledge of the displayed person is prohibited since 2016. The fact that the filmed or photographed person has agreed to make footage is of no importance. In Article 371/1 of the Criminal Code, inserted by the Law of 2016 and amended by the Law of 2020, the following is provided for: "With imprisonment of six months to five years, he shall be punished for making or disseminating those images, images or sound recordings of an exposed person or a person making an explicit sexual act, without his consent or outside his knowledge, accessible or disseminated, even if that person has consented to making them." The penalty shall be increased when the offences are committed against the person or with the help of the person of a minor. Moreover, since 1 July 2020, the law provides for an irrefutable presumption of the minor's lack of consent to display or distribution of the images. Under the term minor, the Criminal Code includes any person under 18 years of age. The purpose of the presumption is to protect the minor as closely as possible. Furthermore, since 2020, Article 371/2 of the Criminal Code provides for a heavier penalty if the image spreader has acted maliciously or for profit. Addressing all forms of sexual violence is a priority for all governments in our country. The non-consensual distribution of nude images is part of that. The service providers referred to in the Economic Law Code do not currently have a general obligation to monitor the information they transmit or store, nor to actively seek facts or circumstances indicating unlawful activities. However, they are obliged to inform the competent judicial or administrative authorities without delay of any alleged illegal activity or information supplied by the recipients of their service. Hosting services shall not be liable for the information stored at the request of the recipient of that service, provided that, first, the service provider does not actually have knowledge of the illegal activity or information and, second, that the service provider, as soon as he has knowledge of that information, acts promptly to remove the information or to prevent access to it. Service providers are not required to take offline non-consensually distributed nude images until they have been ordered to do so by the King's Attorney or the President of the Court. In the latter case, it must be done within six hours. The reform of sexual criminal law and the draft new penal code will further examine the issue, where necessary in consultation with the other competent government members. Then I come to your third question on Mr Mathieu Michel's policy paper. The dissemination of illegal content online is a political priority that falls within the competence of several ministers, including the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Economy, the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, the Secretary of State for Digitalization and Privacy and myself. We are aware of the political urgency of the fight against all forms of illegal content online, in particular with regard to hate messages on the Internet. We will work together to strengthen measures at national and European level. At national level, we are working on the adoption of an inter-federal anti-racism plan for 2021, on the basis of the start note finalised on 25 September. The start note contains an important section on cyber-hate issues and cooperation with Internet platforms. One of the major problems in combating such illegal content online is the imposition of obligations and responsibilities on companies established abroad, when certain actions carried out through their services are contrary to the protection of Belgian citizens. This question cannot be put in a purely national context and deserves action at European Union level. Then we'll get to your fourth question seamlessly. We are indeed aware of the European Commission's plans and of the Digital Service Act proposal. Belgium looks forward to strengthening the general framework on the responsibilities of the Internet platforms foreseen by the Digital Service Act, as proposed on 15 December. In fact, I intervened on this matter at the Council meeting last week. I have spoken about this explicitly. That was, of course, a Council that took place online. In the meantime, I have also been in contact with my Dutch colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, who is taking an initiative in the Netherlands. Strengthening the EU legal framework for combating hate speech online and other forms of online crime is of paramount importance and urgent. This presupposes the adoption of a series of measures. My predecessor, Mr Koen Geens, has worked hard on this issue in the context of European work, in particular in the context of the adoption and application of the code of conduct concluded on 31 May 2016. On the basis of this Code of Conduct, Internet platforms work together on a voluntary basis in the fight against online hate messages. This voluntary approach is an effective instrument, but it has also shown its limitations, where the need to adopt European legislation is needed. In this context, I intend to continue the work of my predecessor. I follow the Commission's work on the Digital Service Act, which would make it possible to strengthen the responsibility of online platforms against online hate speech, but also against other forms of illegal or harmful online content. I have already stressed the importance of this issue at the meetings of the Justice Ministers. That's what I said. I have also been in contact with my French colleague, Mr Eric Dupond-Moretti, and with my Dutch colleague. In particular, I would like to emphasise the importance of an effective and efficient fight for the removal of illegal content online. This legal framework should provide for a range of different measures aimed at strengthening the responsibility and obligations of Internet platforms, in particular the establishment of a binding notice-and-action mechanism, transparency obligations and obligation to cooperate with competent national authorities. Strengthening cooperation between Internet platforms and law enforcement agencies is one of the measures. In particular, it concerns the obligation to notify the territorially competent judicial authorities of any removal of illegal content by Internet platforms, together with the data necessary to establish the identity of the perpetrators. With regard to your fifth question on what actions are being taken by me and Minister Verlinden to mainstream knowledge of the removal, I can say the following. There is a constant and strong commitment to training police and public prosecutors with regard to the current legislative framework and its limitations. An example of this is a recent project which has been rolled out nationally, after it has already been welcomed in a number of public prosecutors and police zones. This project provides for an interactive overview of all possible IT offences, in which the contact person can easily click through in order to provide the citizen with the correct information at the point of contact so that the correct and necessary information can immediately be included in the initial CV, so that no data and time is lost in the further course of the procedure. You also asked how often the one-sided application for the removal of intimate images in accordance with the Code of Justice has been used so far. We have not been able to prepare an answer for this short period of time. Your question was put on 8 December and today it is 9 December. I propose, however, that we give you an answer to this question at the appropriate time, my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u60	Minister, it was quite an impressive answer. It is clear that you take this battle to heart. It is up to a strong government to protect its citizens from these abuses and to ensure a secure society, both on social media and in the real world. That is why John Crombez has also taken an initiative in Parliament to strengthen regulation. The legal arsenal is here. We are now counting on you to make full use of that, but it is clear that you are doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u61	Mr Minister, on 27 November last the Council of Ministers approved the selection of three Belgian candidates for the post of Judge of the European Court of Human Rights. The selection will then continue at Council of Europe level. Could you indicate how the selection was made in Belgium? Who were the candidates? What was the composition of the jury? What were the criteria reviewed for the selection of candidates and how were they weighted? How did the jury decide? How will the comparison of titles and merits be made public? What was the analysis of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u62	Mrs Hugon, the procedure for the national selection of candidatures submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been carried out in full transparency and in strict compliance with the relevant international resolutions and recommendations. By letter dated 13 February this year, the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe invited the Belgian Government to communicate by 8 March 2021 the list of candidates for the election of a Belgian judge to the European Court of Human Rights. A call for applications was published on the website of the Belgian Moniteur on 6 July and on the website of the SPF Justice and addressed to our other jurisdictions, to Parliament and to all universities and bar associations. So it was well dispersed. Finally, it was passed on to the candidates who had run for office at the previous election, to the extent that their interest in the position could be assumed. This appeal drew their attention to the fact that women were currently underrepresented in the Court. Eighteen candidates registered within the deadline of 15 September. The selection board was balanced in terms of gender - four women and three men - and professional experience - our presidents of the Chamber and Senate, the heads of bodies of our three highest courts, broken to the selection of members of their jurisdiction and well aware of the requirements of the effective exercise of the mandate of judge at the Court of Human Rights; the President of the Superior Council of Justice and an officer of my administration – a woman – expert in the procedure before the Court but also in the selection for this position and the positions of experts at the Council of Europe The jury, chaired by François DAUGUST, President of the Constitutional Court, consisted of Stephanie D'Hose (President of the Senate), Eliane Tillieux (President of the Chamber), André Henkes (Attorney General of the Court of Cassation), Roger Stevens (First President of the Council of State), Vanessa De Francquen (President of the Superior Council of Justice) and Isabelle Niedlispacher (Agent of the Government before the Court). On 5 and 6 November, the jury heard from the 18 candidates, including six women. These candidates were magistrates, lawyers and/or university professors. It seems more respectful to me to observe some discretion on the identity of those who have not been retained. Some of them did not wish to make public their participation in the screening procedure, but I can confirm that the applications were of high quality. The jury followed the guidelines provided by the expert advisory panel set up by the Council of Ministers on the qualifications of the candidates to be selected and the memorandum prepared by the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. He made his selection taking into account seven criteria: 1. the ability of candidates to exercise a judicial function in a collegial court; 2. the scientific qualities manifested by the practice of human rights, university education, research and/or publications; 3. the personal motivation of candidates for the values contained in the European Convention on Human Rights; 4. the overall and cross-cutting vision of the candidates with regard to all the rights covered by the Convention and its Additional Protocols; 5. the presentation by the candidates of their vision of the place of the Court in the international legal system and of its functioning and the current challenges it poses; 6. the ability of candidates to speak in both working languages of the Court; 7. the quality of oral services at hearings. It was as a result of this rigorous selection process that the Board adopted a very broad consensus and presented to the Council of Ministers in alphabetical order the three candidates which it considered most suitable to meet the above criteria and which therefore possess the greatest qualifications for serving as a judge of the Court. The Council of Ministers welcomed the gender mix and the persons of the jury of specialists and validated the jury's follow-up of the methodology proposed by the Council of Europe and the proposed list. A copy of the minutes drawn up by the Board at the conclusion of its deliberations was provided to each of the candidates who made the request. They were a third to show that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u64	Mr. Secretary, on something completely different now. I don't know if you know it. I didn't know it, but it was brought to my attention. Temik is the brand name of a very powerful pesticide aldicarb. It has been banned throughout Europe since 2004. Despite this ban, many poisons of pets and wild animals take place every year with these blue grains. A number of cases hit the press, but this is probably the tip of the iceberg. How does one do that? The blue grains are processed into pieces of meat or carcasses. They are used by people who would rather lose certain animals than be rich. Curious and hungry bugs are poisoned by Temik and die. Birds of prey, but also loose dogs, become the victims of the poisoners. Temik is not only dangerous for animals, but also for humans. A child who finds a meat ball with blue grains in the playground has a great chance of dying from it. I am aware that it is not easy to determine who left the poison, but sometimes rangers or rangers find something. Then, apparently, the sentence is limited to just a fine. That seems rather limited, especially because we know that it is about people who deliberately leave a deadly poison, deadly for humans and animals, on a public domain. Minister, a fine is very limited. Soon we'll be working on the Criminal Code. Is it an idea to increase the penalties for such facts, which nevertheless represent a dangerous aspect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u65	The facts are well known to me and have given rise to an interplay at Flemish level with Mrs Demir, Minister of Justice. First of all, I should like to point out that the rules on trade and the use of pesticides seem to me to fall within the competence of the Minister for Agriculture. Furthermore, it seems important to detect and tackle Temic's imports by customs authorities. The Minister of Finance can be questioned about this. The punishment of such offences seems to me to be a regional competence. For example, it seems to me that appropriate reference can be made to the rules on animal welfare or infringements of environmental legislation, which is a competence of the federal government. However, you are calling for a stricter punishment, because leaving the poison in public places is not only dangerous for animals, but also for humans and could lead to fatal incidents, including in humans. I understand your concern and I would like to put your question to the Committee on the Reform of the Criminal Code in order to see to what extent this can be taken into account in reform proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u66	So there's also a federal component in it. Indeed, this is not clear, the powers are somewhat divided, depending on who is the victim of the poison. I thank you in advance for taking the matter to the committee that is considering the new Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u67	Mrs Rohonyi, I fully understand, following your first question, the expectations of families and detainees. It is for this reason that a resumption of the visits to the table was authorized. However, we should be very careful because this second wave has had important effects everywhere, including in prisons. I would remind you that this time it was necessary to mobilise a second section of VOCID-19 to replace that of Bruges, whereas during the first wave, the section in question, planned for Lantin, had not to be activated. Under such conditions, it was a very limited and cautious form of visits that was relaunched on 7 December. This includes the reintegration of plexiglas and the absence of any physical contact between the visitor and the inmate. In view of these strict restrictions, it was more reasonable during the first two weeks to limit visits to persons over 16 years of age, who will be better able to comply with this framework because they will understand its meaning and usefulness, which would be more difficult to manage with younger children. Let me turn to your second question. As I have just pointed out in my reply, I understand that this situation is difficult for everyone. This is why the same instruction already provides that, except for significant negative developments, an additional step will be taken on 21 December with the resumption of the visit of the children under the same strict sanitary conditions, i.e. with plexiglas and without physical contact. As you can see, even if we have to wait a little longer, the next deadline is very close and dictated by a desire for progressivity which, as on the outside, seems the only solution to avoid having to face a new wave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-09-definitief-55-commissie-ic316x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that the decision, with regard to minors under 16 years of age, was taken for two weeks, and that, if the epidemiological situation permits, a relaxation can be allowed from 21 December. I understand that this possible measure could be on the agenda of the Consultation Committee on 18 December. I think that's a good thing. But I still have a problem with this exclusion, in that it does not correspond to the situation of citizens outside the prison. As you know, there is this famous law of principles, which lays down in particular the fundamental principle of normalisation, namely that prison conditions must as much as possible be based on the conditions in force outside the prison. Therefore, if one foresees the possibility for a person, if it is his only contact, his only bubble, to see a minor of age, this should be allowed within the prison as well. It is known that contacts, including videoconferencing, will never replace physical visits, especially since there is also the problem of disadvantaged families, who are not used to them or who do not even have the appropriate computer equipment to benefit from such visits by videoconference. I fully understand that we are bound by the epidemiological situation, but I really wanted to draw your attention to this principle of normalisation, which seems to me to be really fundamental.
