ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u1	Mr Minister, the press relayed a few weeks ago the procedure for selecting European prosecutors in the context of the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This is an important function since this new body will be empowered to investigate and prosecute fraud concerning the European Union budget and other crimes against the European Union's financial interests. It appears that the candidate potentially selected would not be the candidate who received the best assessment at the level of the European selection committee covered by the Regulation establishing the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition to the ranking of this candidate, other questions arise as a result of this designation. Some observers, for example, question the independence of our new European prosecutor, as well as compliance with the "active prosecutor" criterion within the meaning of Regulation 1939/2017. These two conditions are covered by the official call for applications published in the Moniteur belge on 25 January 2019. Mr Minister, should the European evaluation not take precedence over that of the College of Prosecutors General, on which you have relied to justify the Belgian candidate's presentation? Otherwise, is there not a risk that your decision, one of which is already the subject of an appeal by an unsuccessful candidate, will be set aside in an appeal to the Council of State, in particular on the basis of the criteria of independence and "active prosecutor" laid down in the current European legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u2	Mr Pivin, in his reaction to the opinion of the European panel, the College of Public Prosecutors stresses in particular that the opinion of the College is based not only on a hearing and on the candidate's file but also on knowledge accumulated over the years by all members of the College and the Federal Prosecutor about the functioning of candidates throughout their careers and in different positions. The College recalled that it had issued a reserved notice for the other two candidates. If, in such a situation, the Member State is nevertheless obliged to follow the opinion of the European panel, under penalty of questioning the independence of the European Public Prosecutor, this is tantamount to giving the opinion of the European panel a binding scope, which the European legislator has clearly refused to give to it. As for the objective conditions that candidates must meet, they have not been challenged by the panel, and I do not see any difficulties on this side.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u4	Madam President, Minister, we all know – unfortunately you have been a privileged witness in recent years – that the phenomenon of religious and violent radicalism is a threat to our society. The MR was among the first to worry about and take initiatives at this level. During the work of the Committee of Inquiry and Follow-up Terrorist Attacks, we talked a lot about this religious radicalization. This situation is all the more sensitive given that we currently have several hundred people under surveillance and that, if I am not mistaken, 183 detainees for terrorist offences are in our prisons. Therefore, the evaluation of the Deradex sections is an essential information element in the management of the perpetrators of terrorist offences. Minister, has an evaluation of these programs been conducted? If so, by whom and what is the conclusion? Do inmates in the Deradex sections have to follow a deradicalization program? I was reading at the beginning of the month of February – you will correct me, if necessary – an article saying that those who tasted isolation in the Deradex wing did not participate in any reintegration program, which I am somewhat surprised. I therefore particularly look forward to your reply on this subject. How many inmates do they follow and how many have followed a deradicalization program? How many people do they supervise the practical application of these programs within your department? How many people are in charge of these programs within the Directorate-General of Prisons? What are the conclusions of your department to the report of the Prison Supervisory Commission on the Deradex high security regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u5	Madam President, Mr Pivin, your question is mainly about deradicalization programs. These programmes fall within the competence of the Communities, which prefer to speak of disengagement rather than deradicalisation. This division of powers is valid in the Deradex sections, as in the other prisons. So I can only very partially answer your questions. Of course, the Directorate-General for Prisons cooperates with the Communities in the implementation of these programmes. It acts as a facilitator. The aim is to motivate the prisoners concerned to follow these programmes, bearing in mind that participation is carried out on a voluntary basis. Finally, I can inform you that the evaluation report of the Deradex sections is being finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for that clarification. I therefore hear that this is done on a voluntary basis. I was referring to the Committee of Inquiry and Follow-up Terrorist Attacks. At the meetings of this committee, we did not hear an expert report that the deradicalisation or disengagement programmes were effective. I would like us to pay close attention to ensuring that the follow-up is carried out with sufficient efficiency. The voluntary basis should be modified to make it coercive, or alternative means should be found, but in all cases full and complete success should be ensured in terms of disengagement from those detained for this type of act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u7	Madam President, Minister, I ask you this question, because I have been questioned by those concerned and I am particularly concerned. On divorce, both parties must disclose their financial position. Unfortunately, however, a party often gives a false impression of its financial or property situation. On the other hand, some people settle after divorce in another country, such as Luxembourg. In any case, this is the most common example in my life. Since the latter retains information in order to "protect" its citizens, it is difficult, if not impossible, for the other parent to obtain accurate information. Therefore, this often results in a judgment perceived as unfair by the other party. This problem could eventually be solved fairly easily by having access to the tax returns of both parties, unless there is fraud, but it is well known that this is not the case. One could, for example, claim the tax returns of the last three years in order to have a clarification of the tax situation of couples who wish to divorce. Minister, could this proposal be considered? In what form?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, in accordance with Article 301(3) of the Civil Code, the Family Court determines the amount of maintenance which must cover the state of need of the beneficiary on the basis of the income and possibilities of the spouse paying the pension. The determination of the creditor's income and potential results from various financial documents in this file. According to settled case law, it is for the judge to determine sovereignly the documents necessary to render his judgement in this regard. The family judge may already require the disclosure of the spouses' tax returns in this regard. However, the rules of proof in civil matters must be respected. According to article 1315 of the Civil Code, combined with article 870 of the Judicial Code, it is up to the person who alleges a fact to prove it, for example the existence of tax revenues of which he or she would not know. On the basis of article 871 of the Judicial Code, the judge may, for this purpose, require the production of the evidence available to the debtor spouse. Similarly, where there are serious, precise and consistent presumptions of the party's or a third party's detention, such as the FPS Finances, of a document containing evidence of a relevant fact, the judge shall order that the document, or the certified copy thereof, be filed in the record of the proceedings, in accordance with article 877 of the Judicial Code. Finally, article 882 of the Judicial Code provides that a party or third party who abstains without legitimate reason from producing the document or its copy according to the court decision may be sentenced to damages. One could imagine that the judge could dispose of these tax returns in another way, i.e. their direct transmission by the tax administration. The condition is that this be authorized by the GDPR rules. Another avenue to consider is the introduction of specific sanctions in the absence of transmission of tax returns. Thank you, Madam Jadin, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u9	It is I who thank you, Minister, for detailing the provisions in force. As for the two tracks, I will continue to explore them, because they seem interesting to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u10	Minister, last week, international media brought out that the American intelligence services have for years bugged a large group of countries, both enemies and allies, through Crypto encryption equipment. The CIA and the BND became owners of that company through a back door and built in the equipment back doors that they could easily crack. More than 120 countries would have been customers at Crypto. Allies like Italy and Spain were also bugged. According to Dutch reports, Belgium would also have been bugged. Mr. Secretary, has our country purchased equipment from Crypto over the past few decades? If so, what services did this equipment use and when? If not, how is it ensured that Belgium is not at similar risk to other companies? Which countries produce the equipment? Secondly, was our country aware of Crypto's wiretap? If so, since when? Have you taken steps to better protect the Belgian security infrastructure? If so, what impact does this have on communication with other countries that do use Crypto? If not, what impact does that have on our country's security infrastructure? Which steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u11	In order to preserve the confidentiality of information, many structures rely on companies specialized in the encryption of conversations. A Swiss encryption company was particularly popular among them. The company was secretly purchased in 1970 by the US (CIA) and German (BND) intelligence services. According to the revelations of various news channels – The Washington Post, the German ZDF and Swiss SRF TVs – the two counter-intelligence agencies manipulated the company's equipment in order to easily break the encryption, spying on up to 120 countries, including the Belgian diplomatic services that had been customers of this company in the past. What about this espionage case, which I also consider very serious? To what extent has Belgium been a victim of espionage? Will there be an investigation by our country on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u12	Colleagues, I can only answer you for the State Security. The latter has done the necessary checks and confirms that it has not used equipment from Crypto AG or its successors in the last ten years. Additional research is being carried out in the preceding period, but there is currently no indication that such material has been used in the past. Given the increasing complexity of technologies in this area, it is very difficult for a service to ensure that no backdoors are integrated into this type of equipment. In addition to the possible technical checks, it seems appropriate to pay particular attention to criteria such as the democratic character of the supplier's country of origin, the legislation applicable in that country with regard to the collection of information, the independence of the judiciary in the country concerned, the links between such a supplier and its national authorities, etc. Of course, this potential abuse does not rule out, as this dossier shows, but they can be an additional guarantee. The State Security was not aware of these alleged practices by the US and German services before this appeared in open sources. For the rest, I refer you to the Secretary of Defense, whomever you asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u13	Mr Minister, I have indeed been able to put the question this morning to your colleague, who is responsible for the ADIV. There the answer was a little more reassuring apparently because the equipment was used there in the 1950s to the mid 1960s. In the security of the state, that was until ten years ago, so it may have been a target or infected a little longer. In any case, it is important to examine this further in depth internally. In the meantime, we know that the Committee I started an investigation, which was confirmed this morning. The Committee I is likely to carry out the necessary investigations in both State Safety and ADIV. It is very important that this is done thoroughly and that the necessary lessons are drawn from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u14	Madam Chair, my colleague has been planning and has already asked Minister De Crem the question. I wanted to give priority to the Minister of Justice, as the State Security falls within his jurisdiction. These are very interesting elements. I think it is necessary to investigate again in order to have the most complete safety – this is the case to say – with regard to the risks that we could raise in the light of the texts that we have been able to read.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u15	Minister, just over a year ago I questioned you about the audit carried out at the State Security Office, which showed that there were many problems. The announced restructuring was not transparent for the staff. There was an unhealthy corporate culture of harassment and unwanted cross-border behaviour. The staff was less satisfied than average and there was a relatively large outflow. In your reply to my questions on this subject, you said that four working groups were set up with about 50 staff. The aim was to achieve a multi-annual plan of prevention by autumn 2019, which had to be converted into annual action plans. You also stated that there had been no outtake conversations in 2018, but that they would be organised again. Minister, we are now a year later, but if we are allowed to believe the media, there still seems to be a lot going on in State security. Four working groups were set up in September 2018. What was the job description of the working groups? How often did the working groups meet? Do they still exist? Have they made any conclusions? If so, which one? You stated that the goal was to have a multi-annual prevention plan ready by autumn 2019. Was that multiannual plan drawn up in the meantime? If so, what does that plan mean? If not, why not? On the basis of the multiannual plan, annual action plans would be drawn up. Was an annual action plan drawn up for 2020? If so, what does that plan mean? If not, why not? You stated that in 2018 no outtake conversations were organized temporarily. The follow-up of reasons of departure became so difficult. Were they even organized in 2019? If so, what can be derived from the reason for departure? If not, why not? The audit referred to a large number of complaints of cross-border behaviour. Were new complaints registered in 2019? If so, how many and how were they handled? What measures have you taken in the past year to improve the business culture and functioning of State security and improve the information position of staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u16	Mr Van Hecke, your question has about 15 sub-questions. I cannot answer all the questions in the form of an answer to an oral question. I would like to confine myself to the essence. Four focus groups were set up from the psychosocial risk analysis working group. Each of the focus groups met twice on the theme of work organisation, impact of psychosocial risks on work, working conditions and employment support. The first session dealt with an inventory per theme, which looked at what is going well and what can be done better, in order to achieve concrete lines of action per theme. A second session then evaluated, clarified or adapted output where necessary, and identified the priorities of the proposed actions. The results were subsequently discussed and followed up in the working group on psychosocial risk analysis. All conclusions and priority action points were included in a report. This resulted in an action plan of psychosocial stress caused by the work, which was unanimously approved by the syndicated organisations. It is part of the global prevention plan and aims to pool the results of the psychosocial welfare survey and the outcome of the analysis by the focus groups and to transform them into concrete action points for the coming years. The new internal prevention advisor, who will be employed on 1 March 2020, will draw up a specific action plan 2020. For the organisation of the outtake conversations, someone was recruited at the end of 2019. Objective departures proved to be more interesting terms of employment elsewhere such as telework, better remuneration and a location closer to home. Three people came back after a few months because of the job content. In 2019, six applications for psychosocial intervention were received, which is not unusual for State Security. If we compare the results on cross-border behavior with the specific benchmark of the FPS Justice carried out in 2019, it can be concluded that there is a similar score in terms of stress, burn-out, harassment, sexual harassment and discrimination. State security is already counting on the new internal prevention advisor to draw up an awareness campaign on unwanted cross-border behaviour. Finally, several projects and actions have already been launched or are being prepared, which will contribute to the creation and communication of the strategic vision. A newsletter informs staff about the progress of the change processes. A platform was created as a knowledge centre for, among other things, procedures and communications. Measures were also taken for more feedback and evaluation, clearer personal objectives, more recognition, training and autonomy, a balanced work-life balance and fair treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u17	Thank you for your answers. I realize it was a lot of questions. Sometimes I put them in writing and I don't get an answer. If you promise me that the written questions will always be answered within the time limit, I will put much less orally. With your answer, you show that some steps have indeed been taken. It is also important that we monitor the situation regularly. The report wasn't right. Many measures were announced. That is why the succession is important, in Parliament and by you as Minister. It's important that state security works properly. We need a lot of new people in State Security. The less they leave because they're not satisfied, the less we have to recruit. Working for a good business culture will certainly also contribute to a good working environment and a good working environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u18	Madam Chair, Minister, I think your comment on the written question can be repeated, and I will take it. Minister, in the context of the revision of the Criminal Code which is ours in the Committee on Justice, the question arises, in particular, of whether or not to maintain, in our future criminal law, the accessory penalty of making available to the Criminal Enforcement Court (TAP). The authors of the draft code did not include this penalty in their text, considering that it was difficult to reconcile the maintenance of this penalty with the principles on which their text was based. The proposal for a law – initially yours – seems to validate this choice since it also does not include this accessory penalty in its text and the developments specify the reasons for it in these words: "On the one hand, the current scope ratione materiae/ratione personae is considered by the doctrine to be arbitrary, which is not consistent with the principle that optimal criminal legislation should be precise. On the other hand, the duration of the provision amounts to an artificial but real increase in the penalty, which is incompatible with the principle that the rules of law must be proportional to the objective pursued." These considerations – which I fully share – do not seem to be shared by all parties, however, and several proposals have been tabled to bring this debate back to the agenda. Therefore, in order to fully understand the issues at stake, and in preparation for the forthcoming hearings on both the Penal Code and the proposed legislation, it seems to me essential to have certain data on the availability of the current court for the enforcement of sentences. That is why, Minister, I would like to know how many sentences for making the TAP available have been handed down by judges since 1 January 2012 – the date of entry into force of the Act of 26 April 2007 on making the TAP available. Of these, how many were made available to the TAP in a situation where the judge was obliged to do so and how many were made available in a situation where the judge was able to do so? For which offences were these made available and for what duration? With regard to the execution of the provision, how many convicted persons have served the full amount of the provision in prison? How many convicts have been released under surveillance?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u19	Madam President, Mrs Khattabi, according to the statistics of convictions recorded in the Central Judicial Case, 130 convictions were handed down and made available to the TAP between 2012 and 2017. More recent figures are not yet available. The statistics available do not distinguish between mandatory and optional provision. Most of the offences punishable are rape, indecent assault, public outrage at morals and corruption of youth or prostitution. In 70 per cent of cases, the term of deprivation of liberty was longer than three years and was up to ten years in prison. The prison administration informed me that I did not have all the information to answer your question about the number of convicts who served in prison the entire provision. However, I can provide you with the number of convicts who have received a supervised release per year: 18 in 2015; 15 in 2016; 13 in 2017; 20 in 2018; 25 in 2019; 2 since the beginning of 2020. I have a table that I can give you so that you have more detailed data that normally go hand in hand with a written answer to a written question. I'm not repeating what I've already said to Mr. You and Van Hecke don't repeat what he kindly accused me of.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, I have anticipated what seems to me to be quite a correct remark because I have not had time to wait for a written answer and I have allowed myself to file it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u21	From time to time, it is urgent to wait, Mrs. Khattabi!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u22	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u23	Minister, in a few months' time, we will again be plunged into the absolute horror of terrorist attacks. First by the trial in France, then by the one that will be held at home, a river trial that already raises a lot of questions, especially with regard to its organisation. Today I would like to draw your attention to the victims who, for months, will be confronted daily with the very dense media treatment of this trial, as well as their entourage. They will not be able to escape this new plunge into horror and it therefore seems essential that an accompaniment be carried out before, during and after the trial. Therefore, Mr. Minister, alongside the practical, technical and judicial preparation of the trial, is there any concern about the support of the victims and their entourage? Is consultation with all the federated entities envisaged or put in place with this in mind? If this is not the case, do you not think it appropriate to take an initiative in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u24	Mrs Khattabi, the Federal Prosecutor's Office has given me the following information. Since the beginning of the judicial investigation in March 2016, victims have been able to benefit from the assistance of the victim reception service at the public prosecutor's offices. The legal assistants supervised the victims at each stage of the proceedings, including the formation of civil parties, the information session, the viewing of images, etc. They also ensured, where appropriate, that victims who expressed their need were referred to psychosocial assistance. Each victim is accompanied by a legal assistant with the same linguistic role and the investigating judges and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office have ensured that the main documents in the case are translated into seven different languages. This support and support will continue throughout the trial. Preparations for the reception and accompaniment of victims have been under way for several months. As provided by law, civil parties will be entitled to simultaneous translation during the trial. A permanence of the Belgian Red Cross will also be organised. With regard to the locations where the trial will take place, several relay rooms are provided outside the main courtroom. In particular, they will allow victims who do not wish to see the accused to settle in and follow the trial through real-time transmission on screen. A room in which victims can consult with their lawyer or legal assistant, or simply relax, will also be available. Every effort is made to accompany victims in a respectful and humane manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u25	Minister, thank you. I hear the answer from the prosecutor's office, but here's my opinion. I have in my entourage, without going into the details, victims who were present in the subway, and asked them the question: how do they prepare? They were falling from the nudes. They didn't think about it. They were surprised by my question. I have no doubt about what has been put in place. But obviously the information on what could be put in place as psychosocial support for this trial does not reach the people concerned. In my view, an initiative could be taken from the perspective of the trial, alongside everything else, even if information on what could be made available to victims and their families. I think it's essential. I will further explore the issue with the victims and families of the victims in terms of their needs. If so, I will not fail to question you again on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u26	Mrs. Matz isn't here. Her question No. 55003467C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u27	Minister, last month you opened the second transition house in our country, in Edingen. Last year the very first opened in Mechelen. Both are operated by G4S, the largest private security company in the world, in collaboration with the Dutch foundation Exodus. The principle of a transition house is similar to that of a detention house, where a limited number of prisoners prepare themselves for their return to society in a small-scale, more normalized environment. In 2018, a project call came in the Belgian Official Journal. You do not need to repeat what is in the project call. We have been able to read that, but I have a series of concrete questions about how that consortium got the assignment. How was it decided to outsource the operation of the pilot projects of transition houses to G4S? Is that procedure legally established on the composition and guidelines of the jury? Have you given any guidelines? Is the decision of the jury binding on the Minister's final decision? What was "This is the most important question "The very precise motivation of the jury in the assignments to the transition houses of Mechelen and Edingen respectively? What criteria were used by the jury? Were the considerations taken into account, for example, that international studies indicate that in the long term it will be at the expense of quality if punishment is introduced into profit-oriented organisations? In particular, what were the financial and staff requirements for the applications? Is it true that small organizations were so de facto put out of play? How is the control of the transition houses arranged? Is the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service competent to do so? Why was the call for projects launched in the Belgian Official Journal, which is not strictly necessary? What is the division of tasks between G4S and Exodus? Does G4S do more than just security? Is it true that all the staff from the transition homes are on G4S Care's payroll? Exodus announced in a press release at the opening in Edingen that the inmates there receive guidance from social workers, psychologists and criminologists from G4S Care and that they can always consult with Exodus via a red telephone line, if there are problems. The Dutch successful model does not seem to be completely imported so that we can ask ourselves whether the good repeat figures from the Netherlands in our country can be repeated. How do you feel about that? Finally, how will the pilot project be evaluated? Are independents involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u28	Minister, as we have already had an opportunity to discuss it in this committee, two pilot projects for a transitional house are under way: one in Malines and the other in Enghien. The management of these transition houses is entrusted to the private security company G4S, in partnership with Exodus Nederland. This week, two articles have appeared in the press – one in Knack, the other in Le Vif – highlighting several pitfalls that I have already mentioned with you, Minister: lack of transparency; the absence of real involvement of Exodus, who is in charge of the "accompaniment" part of the transitional houses; a suspicion as to the criteria for awarding the contract to G4S and Exodus. Indeed, the principle of the lowest cost per day per resident would appear to have prevailed over everything else. Being efficient in terms of staff, for example, seemed to be a major asset. In addition, that same week, a press release from the Belgian section of the International Prison Observatory informs us that the law of principles seems not to apply in the transitional houses and that the Central Prison Supervision Board and the Supervisory Boards could not exercise their independent control there. Minister, my questions are as follows. Can you give us the reasons for choosing G4S and Exodus Nederland? Can you give us the reasoned opinion of the appeal board? How do you explain that those in the field who already have experience in monitoring and supporting detainees have been excluded from this project? Will the NSOs that have submitted a project eventually receive feedback? Can you tell us the actual involvement of Exodus in the project? What are the accompanying measures for residents? Finally, can you inform us about the regulation of the rights of persons detained in these houses and their remedies? Who will control these places of detention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u29	Madam President, Mr Seghers, Mrs Leroy, the Master Plan for Prisons provides for a differentiated detention policy with also room for small-scale transition homes. Following the law of 11 June 2018, the extension of a pilot project for two transition homes was started. As this is a limited pilot project for one year, on the basis of consultation with the Treasury Inspectorate, it was chosen through a grant and not through a public contract. The advantage of this was that it was possible to work immediately with one specific organisation. However, in order to give all interested parties the opportunity to participate in the pilot project, it was decided, although it was not an obligation, to publish a general call in the Belgian Official Journal. Eight French-speaking and seven Dutch-speaking files were received and thoroughly examined by a jury of internal experts. The sites were also visited. Subsequently, a reasoned choice was forwarded to the Council of Ministers, which validated the proposal. In this regard, a weighting was carried out. The content of the project, and not just its budgetary aspect, played an important role. It is quite incorrect to say that smaller organizations have been out of play. However, it was concluded for some applications that the project could not be retained because of its content, timing or administrative aspect. The selected project is a collaboration between G4S and Exodus which logically guarantee the payment of wages. The standards to be met by a transition house and therefore the quality of the services and guidance provided are clearly defined in the Royal Decree of 22 June 2016. I reject the accusations against the lack of transparency. All the documents that were supposed to be transmitted were indeed. With regard to the documents which could not be transmitted, the reasons for this were given in detail. The Directorate-General for Prisons (DG EPI) of course carries out checks. For example, the prison director responsible for the administrative management of the files of convicted persons regularly visits the prison to ascertain the functioning of the prison. In addition, there is a steering committee in which DG PPE is also represented. This committee oversees the development of transition houses. Finally, a check is carried out by means of periodic reporting. In addition, of course, the basic law on the prison system applies and supervision is possible by the competent authorities, such as the CPT, the Federal Ombudsman and the Central Prison Supervisory Board. Finally, I would like to stress that these projects have been launched on the basis of the conviction that more differentiation in the execution of penalties is needed. The results of the evaluations shall be taken into account in the further start-up and enlargement. I therefore hope that this positive and innovative project will have all the opportunities it deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u30	For the record, Minister, we are very pleased that the transition houses have been opened and you can count on our further support for the principle. Just because we consider them so important, we are counting on you to follow them very closely and evaluate them. After all, I read an earlier piece of you, and you were also a little critical of its privatisation. Finally, I would have liked to know how the pilot project is being evaluated. I didn't understand exactly who would do that. Are independent bodies involved in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u31	Madam President, Minister, as you know, on September 18, I was asking a question, and on November 27, January 14, January 29, and still today. These issues are still substantially the same. I'm sorry, but I don't get an answer. Yet, I think we have one thing in common: that we want to preserve the regal functions in the public service. To preserve these regal functions, it is imperative to put all the necessary beacons when entrusting a project like this to a private partner. That's what I was telling you on the 18th of September. In doing so, we do put aside the ASBLs such as those you mentioned in an answer, for example the Maison Saint-Paul or ALIS, who have been working in the world of reintegration for years and who have expertise. The NSAs, not those nominally, have made it difficult for us to meet the specifications as proposed, as the requirements were complex. I understand that since it was a pilot project, things had to go fast, and there had to be a number of guarantees that G4S and Exodus could provide. But I am concerned today, when asked about applications, the evaluation report, the exact profile of people going to work, how it works, etc., that you are answering things like: "It is important not to compromise fair competition. The protection of the confidentiality of these company data serves a legitimate economic interest. Disclosure of these assessments is therefore impossible." How do you want us, as parliamentarians, to be able to do our work of expertise, monitoring and monitoring in relation to a pilot project as important as this one? Minister, for us, these transitional houses are an indispensable element in allowing alternative measures to traditional detention. I fear, I am concerned, and this is the case with my group, that, because of a lack of transparency around this project, if there were to be one problem, one difficulty, it would put the heart of the project at risk. I find this particularly deplorable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u32	Minister, I have asked for many figures, too much for the time frame of an oral question. This was a result of the letter from Julie Van Espen's parents and the discussion about the supervision of justice that has come up against the agenda. The purpose of my question was to be able to carry out the debate on this subject and also to make those figures available to the other groups. This is how we can come up with constructive proposals. Those figures are essential for this and I hope that you will give as many as possible. I asked about the number of complaints per arrondissement filed with the various police chiefs. Then I also wanted to know how many complaints were followed up by opening a disciplinary file. What is the number of minor disciplinary records that led to disciplinary sanctions on the part of the chief of police? I would also like to hear the same from the disciplinary courts. The second part of my question concerned the Joint Consultative and Investigation Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice. It shall be unauthorized for complaints falling within the criminal or disciplinary competence of other authorities. In that case, under Article 259a, 15 of the Civil Code, the VAOC must refer the complainant to the competent authorities which are required to inform the advisory and investigation committees of the action taken on the complaint in a reasoned manner. What was the number of complainants referred by the VAOC to the competent chief of police between 2014 and now? In how many of those referred cases was a disciplinary investigation initiated by the chief of police? How many complainants were referred to the Disciplinary Court? How often was a disciplinary investigation opened by the Disciplinary Court? Pursuant to Article 259a, 18 of the Code of Justice, the reports of the special investigations carried out by the VAOC must also be delivered to the Chiefs of the Courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office in these courts. How many times has a disciplinary inquiry been opened following such a report? How many times did that investigation lead to disciplinary sanctions by the competent police chief or disciplinary court? I realise that I am asking too much, and I have no problem with it if this information can be given to us in writing, please immediately to all the groups. Then we can have the debate in a good way, which is actually my main concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u33	Colleagues, complaint handling falls within the competence of the Chiefs of the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court of Justice. Disciplinary law is the competence of the chiefs of the police and of the disciplinary courts. Figures of the number of complaints lodged with the Chiefs of Staff and the number of minor disciplinary proceedings and sanctions have not been collected in a consolidated manner so far. Disciplinary sentences, pronounced by the disciplinary courts, are included in the activity reports of the Disciplinary Courts which are also delivered to your Chamber in accordance with Article 423 of the Court's Code. The Supreme Court of Justice systematically delivers its reports and opinions to the Chiefs of the Courts and the Public Prosecutors of these courts. The Supreme Court of Justice has no knowledge of disciplinary investigations initiated by these chiefs in response to the mere conduct of a special investigation or audit. Most of the complaints received by the Supreme Court concern the content of judicial decisions, for which the Supreme Court is not competent. I shall provide you with the figures of disciplinary complaints which the Supreme Court itself has either delivered to the Chief of Staff concerned or in which the complainant was informed that he can address himself to that disciplinary action. Last year, three new initiatives were launched by the GRECO Act of 23 March 2019 in order to better understand the disciplinary procedures. First, each court must now state in its operational report what measures have been taken to enforce disciplinary action, including disciplinary sanctions. On this basis, the High Council for Justice shall draw up a consolidated and public report each year. Secondly, there will be a clear standard form for disciplinary courts to draw up their activity reports. Finally, every year the chiefs of police must inform the disciplinary courts of the minor disciplinary penalties they have pronounced. That information shall be included in the Disciplinary Court's activity report. An evaluation is best done together with the relevant disciplinary courts. A difficulty is to find sufficient instructors and judges-consultants. Despite several calls for applications, certain places have not yet been filled. The legal rules and procedures for the appointment of members of disciplinary courts are too difficult. The discipline is only an ultimate remedy. In the context of a social statute, I asked the colleges to make a proposal to review the evaluation of magistrates, which, on the one hand, focuses on coaching and, on the other hand, allows more effective action to be taken against magistrates who are not working properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that some of the information is available, consolidated, and others are not yet. In any case, that information is spread across a lot of different sources. It would benefit the debate if you were to take an initiative to bring this together and deliver it to Parliament, in the interests of a good discussion here, in order to be able to talk properly about the supervision of justice. For the sake of clarity, disciplinary sanctions are not the aim, it is rather a means of ensuring a well-functioning justice system, and we hope, of course, that disciplinary sanctions should be imposed as little as possible. For us, the goal is a well-functioning Justice. I hope that you will be able to do the exercise and that you will be able to deliver it to colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u35	Madam Chair, Minister, on October 5, 2017, the law on the penetration, occupation or illegitimate stay in the property of others was passed in the House of Representatives. This "anti-squat" law of 18 October 2017 provided, inter alia, for the criminalization of the occupation of unoccupied buildings. As a reminder, we objected to this law and, more specifically, to the occupation of an unoccupied building. We felt, in fact, that this criminalization did not provide a solution and that it was more appropriate to improve civil proceedings. Moreover, without calling into question the right to property, the text also forgot the fundamental question of the right to housing. Article 13 of the Act states, however, that "This Act shall be evaluated and this assessment shall be presented to the House of Representatives before the end of the second year following the day of its publication in the Belgian Moniteur." The law of 18 October 2017 was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 6 November 2017. In accordance with this provision, an evaluation should have been presented to the House of Representatives before 7 November 2019. We are therefore surprised that, to date, we have still not been able to receive and analyse this assessment. Minister, when will you conduct such an evaluation? If she started, what is her status? When will this assessment be presented to the House of Representatives? Why has this evaluation not yet been presented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u36	Madam President, Mr Aouasti, the Act of 18 October 2017 on the penetration, occupation or illegitimate stay in the property of others entered into force on 16 November 2017. The Act criminalized squatting by amending article 439 of the Criminal Code in respect of inhabited buildings and inserting article 442/1 in the same Code in respect of uninhabited buildings. With a view to uniform implementation by the various prosecutors' offices in the country, on 21 March 2019 the College of Attorneys General adopted a circular 2/219 on research and prosecution policy in the field of squat. This circular contains, inter alia, coding guidelines. Application since 4 April 2019, the brevity of the reference period does not allow, for the time being, to infer statistical data or any significant teaching.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer. I must confess that she is very dissatisfied with me, since the law ultimately places an obligation on the government. In fact, when it states that "the King determines the modalities of this evaluation", it also places on the government the obligation to define by an act, which in my opinion is not confined to a mere circular, the precise modalities of the evaluation of this law. At this stage, there is no act of the executive that determines the modalities of evaluation. You're telling me that no evaluation has been initiated but that we only have statistical data that ultimately doesn't lead to much. How is it that a law which imposes obligations on the executive and which has been passed by Parliament is not enforced by the executive when it has to do so? It's a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u38	Minister, nothing new on the horizon. For the third week in a row, strikes broke out again in the country's various prisons last Friday. In question, the implementation of the minimum service law that you have supported. A proposal on your part, made on global figures that did not envisage the specific situation of each institution, a prison per prison, was made at the last meeting on 29 January. However, as you know, the trade unions are calling for a study of the specific situation of each prison in order to be able to correctly define the concrete organisation of work, to establish the safety of the agents, and of course to maintain the right to strike, while at the same time implementing the minimum service. If negotiations do not resume quickly, strikes will continue in prisons. Tensions will increase and I don't know what solutions you can find. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions. How can you propose a uniform plan when, as you know, each prison responds to different situations, conditions and specificities? To what logic does this approach respond? Do you intend to resume negotiations with the unions? Will you decide to propose a plan taking into account the specific and specific conditions of each prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u39	Dear colleague, first of all, let me remind you that the plans are made in a uniform manner, taking into account the particularities of each prison. They were submitted for consultation in the basic consultation committees. My last and final proposal, dated 29 January, is formulated in a comprehensive manner and calculated as prison per prison. These plans set a minimum threshold for how many staff members must always be present per day, depending on the needs – for example, Sunday, shower day, court hearing day, day of visits, etc. This minimum threshold is 25 per cent lower than the number of staff previously advanced for prisons with a capacity of more than 200 prisoners, i.e. so-called large prisons, and is 20 per cent lower for prisons with a capacity of less than 200 prisoners, so-called small prisons. Nevertheless, on the first day of strike, the Director General can never ask more than the minimum. This range is a way of indicating that there is always a certain margin and that targeted adjustments are possible in each prison, depending on the day of strike and the activities planned that day, such as those mentioned in my examples. This allows management to adapt the plan in order to respond to certain situations, circumstances and other specificities. Now I am waiting for the reasoned opinion of the unions and will examine it in depth, so that I can respond to the trade union organisations, as prescribed by the royal decree concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will take care to analyse in more depth the figures you have just made. However, with regard to the question on the last meeting, I believe that there is absolutely nothing that changes. I don't understand when you say that on January 29, you did a global analysis but calculated prison by prison. A global analysis and a prison-by-prison calculation are two completely contradictory things. If I return to the answer you gave in my previous question, you said that there was misinformation and that the unions did not want a prison-by-prison analysis. In this case, they say the opposite. That's why, minister, I made the proposal to hear them. I don't understand how to find a solution. Even if it's too much, our country still has about 30 prisons. I guess not all of them are a problem. Is there a way to find solutions or reduce the analysis of problematic prisons and perhaps hear these prisons? What is it? Is it the age of buildings that requires additional staff? Is it the fact that inmates are in Deradex wings? I think it is really necessary to reach an agreement that takes into account the specifics of prison per prison so that there is a practical implementation of this minimum service within prisons. Let's hear the unions, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u41	Madam President, Minister, last Thursday, a woman was the victim of an attempt at femicide on a train by her former companion. One more! Harassed for months, she had complained several times, but nothing had been done to protect her. Minister, what is the public prosecutor's policy in this area? Has it followed the recommendations of COL 4/2006 that a judge of reference should be appointed? Have judges received specific training? Do you have any information on the handling of complaints submitted by the victim? Have they been filed without further action? If so, why? Has a risk analysis been conducted? Why has a ban on contact with the victim not been put in place? Last December, I was already asking you about follow-up on harassment complaints. You have indicated that the network of expertise against people is currently working on a risk assessment tool to try to identify the most at-risk situations from a move to a major homicide-type act. Could you please indicate the status of this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u42	Madam President, Mrs Schlitz, I cannot answer your questions about an individual case because the investigation is under way. There is a reference magistrate within each district and a reference police officer within each police area. In addition to basic training for all magistrates, reference magistrates have received specific training on the approach to be taken in dealing with situations of violence between partners. However, it remains very important to ensure a level of training and awareness-raising for all police officers and magistrates involved, since such situations occur at all times of the day and night. It is therefore not always the specialist police officer or magistrate who intervenes in the emergency. My administration is currently preparing legislation that introduces a requirement for continuing training. This will include the theme of sexual violence and will be mandatory for all magistrates dealing with such cases. With regard to the risk assessment tool, the coordinator of the Network of Expertise "Criminality against People" informed me that it was being finalized. It will be incorporated into a circular whose project will be submitted to the Network of Expertise next April. For further information, I refer you to the presentation by the Attorney General and the Coordinator of the Network of Expertise, given on 20 November 2019 at the hearing in the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. I did not expect you to respond to the individual case even if it seems to me to be emblematic of a real problem in Belgium. You're talking about a bill on the issue of sexual violence. I find that there is a real concern in this debate that, at a recent symposium on femicide, your colleague, Mrs Muylle, has come to speak before the House by confusing the issues of sexual violence, harassment and femicide. I would like to have a link because everything is connected but I think that these are specific problems that are waiting for specific answers. Let's not mix it up! I will reread the document to which you refer, but I also attended Mr. de Valkeneer's presentation to the House last Friday at the Vrouwenraad symposium, which sheds light on the shortcomings of justice in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u44	Madam President, Minister, in the Social Empowerment Opinion Committee, we are currently conducting hearings on the issue of domestic violence, particularly against women and children. Among the experts interviewed, Diane Bernard, professor of law at Saint-Louis University, explained to the deputies that there is a serious problem in Belgium related to the inclusion by courts and tribunals of the concept of parental alienation syndrome. This pseudo-scientific concept, developed by the American psychologist Richard Gardner in the 1980s, consists in "pathologizing" the discourse of the child who accuses one of his parents of sexual abuse. Mr Gardner considers that when such facts are reported in parallel with a divorce, professionals must suspect the development of a pathology in the child, usually induced by the mother against the father. Although Mr Gardner's theories have been largely invalidated by scientific research in this area, they continue to be frequently involved in family litigation before Belgian courts and tribunals. In the face of such problematic uses of pseudo-scientific theories, France and Italy have made strong recommendations to the judiciary to warn judges of the lack of a basis for this concept and to advise them not to use it. Yet, according to Prof. Bernard, this concept is being used more and more frequently in Belgium. Minister, could you make a recommendation to the judicial world like France and Italy did? Could this information be provided as part of family law training for lawyers and magistrates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u45	Dear colleague, parental alienation is indeed a very delicate issue. First of all, I would like to point out that the concept of parental alienation that is used by the courts is not necessarily necessarily related to sexual violence. Rather, this is the loss of the relationship between the child and the parent. Parental alienation was discussed in the Family Court Working Group, in which some members stressed the importance of judicial training. The Judicial Training Institute informs me that, since then, a training course entitled "risk of loss of connection between parent and child, i.e. parental alienation" has been organised in May 2019 for magistrates, given the topicality of this very delicate issue. This training was intended for judges at the headquarters, first instance and appeal levels, serving in the Family and Youth Court, prosecutors serving in the Public Prosecutor's Office at the Family and Youth Court, justices of the peace, alternate judges and judicial trainees. The aim of this training was first to offer magistrates the latest results of academic research and to explain the phenomenon of loss of connection. In addition, apart from theory, the training intended to provide practical support to participating magistrates, who had received an inventory of the possibilities for psychological assistance of the persons concerned and of what was available to juvenile and family judges and prosecutors. Finally, the training also included a half-day exchange of work experience where participants had to apply their new knowledge to the discussion of interesting cases. In order to ensure a multidisciplinary approach, the IFJ has employed trainers from different professional backgrounds: a child psychiatrist, a doctor in psychopedagogy, conjugal and family counsellors, psychologists, family therapists, a lawyer, family magistrates and experienced youth. As for the recommendations that you are asking me to consider, I will certainly draw the attention of the Judicial Training Institute to the need to organize regular, that is, annual, in-service training sessions for family and youth magistrates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am extremely shocked by what I have just heard. You are providing training to explain parental alienation when it is a concept that has no scientific basis, as many articles explain. This is extremely worrying and it is absolutely necessary to take a step back from this concept. The concept is not always linked to sexual violence. It may also be linked to violence that the child has suffered directly or indirectly. It aims to demonize the child's speech by pathologizing her and to make the mother look like a manipulative when she herself is a victim. According to scientific studies conducted by researchers other than the supporters of the theory of parental alienation, it is estimated that about 0.4% of real parental alienations occur and that everything else is fantasized to try to return guilt. What you just explained to me is very intriguing. I will go to the reports of this symposium and then ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u47	Mr Minister, the GRECO report on the fifth round of assessment for our country, which deals with the prevention of corruption and the promotion of integrity in central governments and executive services – adopted on 6 December last – was published on 23 January. As you know, the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption (OCCR) is responsible, among other things, for specialized support for investigations by the Federal Judicial Police, which falls within your jurisdiction. The Office is thus placed under the supervision of a guardianship magistrate – who is a member of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office – who gives you an annual report which is then forwarded to Parliament but which is not made public. In its report, GRECO believes that this lack of publicity is a problem and therefore encourages our authorities to publish this annual report of the prosecutor's office – for legitimate reasons of transparency. More generally, GRECO also points out in its report that there is a glaring lack of resources for the authorities responsible for preventing and combating corruption. We all know that the fight against terrorism has changed the paradigm of prosecution priorities. However, it is our duty to be more proactive in the fight against corruption. Therefore, Minister, can you please let me know if you intend to follow up on this GRECO recommendation regarding the publicity of the Board's audit report? Despite routine cases, have there been or will be any initiatives to strengthen human and financial resources for the judicial police in charge of combating corruption?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u48	Mrs Rohonyi, this is not a formal recommendation of GRECO, but a suggestion to make public the annual report of the OCRC supervisory magistrate. Section 47 of the Code of Criminal Investigation provides: "This magistrate shall report annually to the Minister of Justice. The report is communicated to the Legislative Chambers by the Minister of Justice. This magistrate may be heard by Parliament on the general functioning of the corruption law enforcement service." It seems to me that it is up to Parliament itself, which is the final recipient of the report, to take the decision whether or not to publish the annual report and to determine when it will be published. We do not have separate figures from the total CRCO budget for its personnel, operating and investment costs. To date, the Office has been covered by the total budget of the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police. Ten years ago, it had an organic framework with 66 full-time equivalents. This organic capacity has not been reduced. It remained the same when the Federal Police Optimization Plan was put in place in 2014. OCRC has indeed experienced staffing problems, including the retirement of a large number of its investigators, resulting in the number of FTEs being reduced to 37.1 in October 2018. Since then, the number of full-time equivalents has increased to 46.5 in May 2019. Since the fall of 2019, substantial efforts have been made to compensate for departures and to complete the OCRC's organic chart. By the end of 2020, the table should normally be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u49	Minister, I understand that the report does not formally refer to recommendations as such, but rather to suggestions. Nevertheless, it is not appropriate for Belgium not to follow these suggestions or recommendations. I believe that even if we are in the lead of countries fighting corruption, we must be vigilant in this regard. We must not fall into the trap of saying that from the moment our country is not concerned with the phenomenon, we must reduce the means in the fight against corruption. It is a phenomenon that we observe and that is quite dangerous. I conclude with the appeal made by the famous judge Michel Claise in the newspaper Le Soir last week. He explains that from the moment we give these means, we obtain results. For example, he has just closed a case where he was able to recover EUR 50 million through a criminal transaction. He asks that we give him the means. I think we need to be careful and not fall into the trap I just explained to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u50	Minister, in the plenary last week, I asked you, following Julie Van Espen's letter from her parents, about the lack of resources allocated to the justice system and to the agencies responsible for monitoring sex offenders. The Bruxellois Support Centre (CAB) happens to be in danger again. As you know, this centre was set up, as its equivalents in Wallonia and Flanders, after the Dutroux case, with the task of taking care of the perpetrators of sexual offences. The majority of sexual offenders monitored by these centres are sent by the PATs and by the probation board. As you also know, the SPF Justice subsidy to the CAB has been capped at around €180,000 for the past 10 years, and this is currently about 400 cases per year, all with 2.5 full-time equivalents. This situation is untenable and undermines the Centre's expertise and its results in reducing recidivism and consequently the number of victims. Today, the CAB subside does not even cover the staff costs of the executive. He therefore had to borrow money to pay his staff, leaving him with a debt carried over of 40,000 euros, which was just over 20% of his federal subsidy. The CAB can no longer even pay its ONSS contributions. At the same time, the Justice FPS does not even cover rental charges on the premises of the CAB. Minister, can you let me know if you are aware that the costs associated with the maintenance of offenders transferred to prison and the recidivism of offenders released without therapeutic follow-up are significantly higher than the grants to support centres? How is it possible that these support centres will not be assured of their future and will ultimately be at the mercy of a renewal of their subsidy from year to year? Finally, what structural solutions can you envisage to prevent this bad comedy from happening every year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u51	Mrs Rohonyi, each year, the three sexual violence support centres receive grants amounting to €907,000, specifically €182,000 for the CAB, €362,500 for the UEFC and €362,500 for the UPPL. These grants have been exempted from any budget cuts over the past five years, allowing the centre to continue to receive assistance. Combating sexual violence is a priority. For this reason, it is necessary to make the follow-up of sex offenders mandatory, even at the end of the sentence they have served. I repeated it several times in front of this room. It is no secret to anyone: I have been advocating for a long time to increase the means of justice. I am in favour of increased funding of support centres from federal authorities and relevant federal entities to enable these centres to meet the growing need for follow-up and support for sex offenders, which you rightly identify. Since the sixth reform of the State, the powers have been distributed. In this context, the three cooperation agreements concluded between the Federal State and the Communities should be reviewed in order to establish a greater and shared commitment by all the authorities concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-19-55-commissie-ic119x.u52	Thank you for your numbers, Minister. I hear that the various support centres have not experienced a budget cut. However, since 2015, the various support centres – and in particular the Brussels centre – have alerted us to this budget cut or, at the very least, to the threat of budget cuts. For five years, we have been constantly questioning you about their concern about this. I welcome your willingness to think about better funding, given their growing workload, but I regret that this will only manifest itself now, when you are in business and therefore do not have the capacity to translate this funding. So it's a blow in the water. I regret this situation, especially since you are telling us that the cooperation agreements should be subject to change. However, the law expressly reserved this jurisdiction for you in the area of funding. Sections 5 and 6 of the Act are very clear in this regard and provide that the Minister of Justice is committed to subsidizing this support centre in the course of his missions. For me, your mission was perfectly clear, and I regret that the commitment – even positive – is only manifested now. I believe that it is essential to ensure the sustainability of this funding and to be able to begin a real reflection on the increase in subsidies, bearing in mind that we are currently conducting this reflection in the Committee on Justice in the context of the examination of our bill. This law of sp.a., N-VA and DéFI will aim to make mandatory the therapeutic follow-up of sex offenders, especially those who go to the bottom of their sentence. It goes without saying that if we come to vote on this bill, the workload of the centres will be even greater, and this will have to be taken into account in the context of greater funding.
