ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u2	Colleagues, given the exceptional circumstances, we will vote in three different rooms. Ladies and gentlemen, given the special situation, we will be voting in three different rooms today. Members whose names begin with letters A to K will vote in the Chamber. The members whose names begin with the letters A to K will vote in the hemisphere. Members whose names begin with the letters L to S are invited to vote in the Jacques Brel Hall. Members whose names begin with the letters L to S are invited to vote in the room Jacques Brel. Members whose names begin with the letters T to Z are invited to vote in the Père Damien room. Members whose names begin with the letters T to Z are invited to vote in the Chamber of Father Damian. At the entrance to each room are the nominative ballot papers. Members are invited for each vote to table their ballot papers in the ballot box and then leave the room. At the entrance of the halls, ballot letters are written by name. Members are asked to put the ballot paper in the ballot box by vote and then to leave the Chamber. I put this motion to the vote. I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of voting. Start of the vote. Members can now vote in the various rooms. Members can now vote in the different halls. I learn that the vote has been closed in the various rooms. I understand that the vote was closed in the various halls. Result of the vote. Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 1) Yes 82 Yes No 44 No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 126 Total The motion of confidence was adopted. The motion of confidence has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u3	At the request of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Budget, I propose that you defer to a later date the bill to implement the savings measures relating to proprietary medicinal products under the Health Care 2020 budget, Nos. 1005/1 to 5. At the request of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Budget, I propose that the draft law implementing the savings measures for proprietary medicinal products under the 2020 health care budget, Nos 1005/1 to 5, be postponed to a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u4	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Here too, we have agreed that only those Members involved in this draft will be present in the Chamber. The rapporteur for this draft is Mr Christian Leysen and I shall give him the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u5	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, for the sixth time since the fall of the government at the end of 2018, this Parliament is considering provisional twelfths. For the fourth time, this happens after we went to the ballot box in May last year. The unprecedented crisis that threatens our public health puts the problems of political and budgetary stability in the dark. At the meetings of the Finance and Budget Committee on 11 and 16 March, the draft provisional appropriations for April, May and June were submitted to the Committee. At that time, the first exceptional measures that the National Security Council would issue as a result of the corona crisis were not yet known and 25 amendments were on the table, with a total cost of around EUR 1 billion. This was also done on the eve of the publication of the Monitoring Committee's report, which explained a further deterioration in the budget deficit: EUR 14.4 billion more expenditure than revenue in 2020. This approached the critical limit of 3% of gross domestic product. I shall confine myself here to the sitting of 16 March, where several Members withdrew most of their amendments. At that meeting, the Minister for the Budget proposed limiting himself to three amendments. Two amendments are of a technical nature, an amendment to correct a technical forgetfulness about the Godtschalck Foundation, a technical amendment by Mr Van der Donkt and other types of amendment aimed at correcting the decision taken in the Chamber on 9 December on the budget of the political parties which meant that it was reduced by EUR 600,000. The third amendment is a new amendment, No. 27, submitted by the government for the creation of an additional interdepartmental commission of EUR 1 billion to meet the challenges of the COVID-19 crisis without giving it full technical support. The Minister has promised that a working group will be set up to ensure that Parliament is proactively monitoring spending. The other amendments were either withdrawn, not approved or declared invalid. The draft law containing the three amendments was adopted by 15 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. So much for my report. My own intervention will come later?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u6	Yeah, he'll be here soon. I'm trying to follow the normal order now. I come to the various groups that wish to intervene. I don't have everyone on my list. As usual, they don't sign up. Mr. Loones had asked me to inform him. Mr. Bertels is registered. Mr Gilkinet will take the floor for Ecolo-Green. I have Mr Ravyts for Flemish Interest. Anybody come in for MR? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Matheï of CD&V is on my list. No one is registered for PVDA-PTB. For Open Vld I have Mr Leysen. And then there's Mrs. Fonck. Mr. Loones, may I begin with you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u7	Mr President, Minister for the Budget, the streets are getting quieter and quieter. A lot of people have to stay home to work, and the kids are at home too. Our seniors have to do without a visitor. However, if one looks just past that silence, then one hears the questions that come up. If I get sick, will I be taken care of? Will I be well received? Will my pension still be paid? Will the shelves in the shops still be replenished? What about my paycheck, what about the invoices? What about my company that has to close down? Why do I have to keep working while others have telework? People are worried, they're worried. Just in this respect, we, as politicians and policy makers, can play an important role. We can help provide security and show action. We shall be voting in this House on the provisional twelfths. With this we want to give maximum support to ensure that the machine keeps running. Pensions and benefits must be paid. There should also be a budget for hospitals, mouth masks and to purchase additional ventilation equipment. There must also be money for police, justice, security and so much more. That money is there, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It will be a task of the government to ensure that that money is used in time and usefully. These provisional twelfths must at the same time do more than just provide certainty. We must all act together. The Flemish Government has already taken whole packages of measures, for example on additional support for entrepreneurs. We, too, must do that. These provisional twelfths will also do so because an additional budget of EUR 1 billion is foreseen to provide additional support for investment in health and our economy in the next 3 months. That is certainly necessary, but it will certainly not be enough. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that a guarantee fund of at least EUR 70 billion be set up, similar to what other countries in the European Union are doing. This will be a real economic bazooka to give our companies breathing space and at the same time reduce the risks of the financial system. Giving certainty, showing strength, that is what we are doing with these provisional twelfths. That is also why the N-VA supports the provisional twelfths, because we want to take responsibility for managing this crisis. Unfortunately, the story doesn't end here. Unfortunately, in this country there are also powers at work that are abusing this crisis in order to form a devious government that has no support in Flanders. This is to the essence of crisis management, because in every crisis it is important that leadership is undisputed. That is not the case in this country today. In Belgium, the government lacks legitimacy. The leadership is not undisputed. That is why I would like to conclude with an appeal to the government. I would like to paraphrase the Prime Minister himself's policy statement. Legitimity is not proclaimed with a speech in Parliament on a Tuesday. It is not confirmed by a vote of confidence on a Thursday. Legitimity is built up, day after day, hour after hour. The budget is there. The money has been spent, but spending money and making debts can be done by anyone. Wise governance, making the right choices, spending taxpayers' money efficiently, that will be the challenge of the government and of all of us. This is my offer. Let us work together, Parliament and government, so that the money is spent in the most useful way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u8	There are two people who would like to interrupt you, Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u9	I want you to take all the political positions you want. But in a democracy, the important thing is to have a majority. The government that submitted a request for confidence has just obtained the latter with 84 MPs out of 128, and therefore out of 150. A majority voted in favour of trust. I can understand that it does not like it, but the rule in democracy is to have a majority, which is the case since a majority of members want to mobilize themselves to defend what needs to be defended and to do what needs to be done. That you do not like it is one thing, but you cannot call into question the democratic majority that has expressed itself. Indeed, 84 out of 128 are a majority. I do not understand that this majority can be denied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u10	Mr President, my speech will go in the same direction as that of Mr Piedboeuf. I would have liked you to remind Mr Loones, since he was not present in the Chamber, of the result of the vote that has just been put on the confidence to be given to the government, namely, as Mr Piedboeuf has just said, 84 votes in favour. Mr Loones wondered about the legitimacy of this government. In order to be legitimate, 76 votes were required. With 84 votes, we're way beyond that. It is a legitimacy that falls within certain limits, in other words, for six months. As the Prime Minister has said, she will again ask for confidence at the end of this period. There are also limits on the substance as the government is called upon to deal with this health crisis of the coronavirus and to ship routine business. I don't know what it takes for the N-VA to consider a government to be legitimate. To do this, does he have to do it at any cost? Mr Loones, it is a great democratic problem for me to hear you contest the legitimacy of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u11	Mr Loones, I understand your disappointment, but it's a little fig after Easter. The government just got the trust. Let us now move on to the subject of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we respect democracy. The N-VA as a party respects the rule of law and democracy. Democracy, however, is wider than getting some votes here in Parliament. Democracy is also about acceptance, not just here in the Chamber, but with the whole population, in all the regions of that country, not in one region of that country. Democracy is also about finding support, building support day after day, and thus achieving legitimacy effectively. I'm sorry, but the government isn't there yet. I wish her every success and hope that she will manage the crisis very successfully. We will also give every support to this, at least in terms of budget and power of attorneys. However, the government is not legitimate and I am very sorry to have to come to that conclusion. I shall return to my speech and round off. It is important that we now provide and work together to ensure that these budgets are spent in the most efficient way. It is, after all, one thing to approve a budget, to ensure that we have a sensible policy with that budget, and that is what this is really about. That is also what the people are entitled to, especially those who deserve our thanks so much, namely the people in care, those who fill the shelves, those who ensure that the transport continues, that our safety remains guaranteed, all the volunteers and so many other people who put their best foot forward. I should like to express my sincere thanks to all of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u13	Mr. Speaker, I would like to begin by thanking the staff of the House, who, like other people in society, ensure that in the difficult situation we are in, democracy can continue to function. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u14	It is important that we show respect for physical distance and confinement when we are sick, but that both democracy can continue to function and that, as they say, there is one or more captains in the boat who are trying to decide at best. The circumstances are indeed quite special. This nine-tenth empty room reflects the exceptional situation that we, our country, our fellow citizens, and the neighbouring countries are living in. This is an exceptional and upsetting situation, which requires the mobilization and responsibility of all. In this exceptional situation, Parliament, the elected representatives, the representatives we are must be exemplary and equal to all those who, in our society, mobilize to try to limit the effects of the pandemic on the most fragile of us. Like other colleagues, I would like to mention the health care staff as a starting point. Whether on the front line, at home, in nursing homes, in hospitals, this staff is unfortunately under-equipped. We'll have to learn from it. This staff has undergone drastic and systematic cost-saving measures and is deprived of the necessary equipment to act safely for others and for himself, masks, and breathers, which we all worry about. This staff, however, assumes, goes daily to work, organizes themselves to avoid the worst in the coming days and weeks. They and they have all our support and gratitude. I am also thinking of all those who, in the service sector, remain on the bridge, including the food sector, distribution, public transport or this Parliament I have just mentioned. I am of course also thinking of all our fellow citizens who accept containment measures, who respect them, who follow the advice of specialists, epidemiologists in order to limit the spread of the virus and who organize themselves to live this period at best and also to ensure solidarity with their loved ones, their neighbours and their families. Today, Parliament must align itself with those on the ground in an attempt to curb the pandemic and its very serious effects on the health and functioning of our society in terms of economic, social, cultural and, above all, health. We have our opinions, our convictions. I would say that the time is no longer for political quarrels but for a form of national union in the fight against coronavirus and all its consequences and, in any case, everyone must feel responsible and engage in this struggle to try to limit the effects of this health crisis. And when the situation is serious, environmentalists are always ready to respond to the call for responsibility. It is regrettable and symptomatic that some have not understood it, that they believe that a vote of 84 out of 128 Members does not lead to democratic legitimacy. They still choose to try to sow zizania or try to balance forces, rather than implementing this collaboration and seeking the effectiveness of political action at the federal level. The elected representatives we are must set an example and devote all their energy in the coming days, weeks or even months to protecting the weakest of our society, the elderly and the sick. This is the decisive choice that environmentalists have made by giving, for a maximum of six months, their confidence in an interim government specifically responsible for combating the pandemic and effectively democraticly valid, legitimate because it has received more than half of the votes of this House. In our chief, it's not a blank check. We intend to seize the hand of the Prime Minister and the four parties in this interim government to ensure that the best choices are expressed in the management of the crisis, particularly in the context of the special powers that will be voted on very soon. Environmentalists pay particular attention to the means available to health care services and to the protection of the most vulnerable. I speak socially and economically, but I am also thinking of people alone, seniors, sick people, undocumented people, refugees and refugee candidates – all forgotten by the outgoing government. Particular attention must also be paid to all those who are or will be the indirect victims of the pandemic, because their difficult lives will become unbearable with this health crisis, confinement and the priority given in medical matters to the treatment of coronavirus rather than to other pathologies sometimes just as important. To do this, the federal government needs a budget. We have voted, Mr Budget Minister, the previous provisional twelfths and we will vote on them – as we have done in committee – in the interests of the continuity of the state, in order to avoid adding chaos to the health disaster. We will do so, I would remind you, although we were still challenging the budget base that they duplicate, namely the 2018 budget. Above all, we will do so with this EUR 1 billion provision that we requested in committee last week, which the government proposed this Monday by means of an amendment – an amount that we approved – and which is probably just the beginning of the budget response that will be needed to overcome the coronavirus and all its consequences. It goes without saying that we will pay close attention to the allocation of this billion. The priority, of course, is to provide equipment – including masks – to the front line, artificial breathers to hospitals and everything that is necessary for the treatment of patients. I would like to welcome, at this rostrum, the position of the common union front on the White Blouse Fund we have voted for, proposing that it be allocated to these emergency measures. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind the trusted government that the law has given it power to requisition in an emergency, with respect to masks and respirators. The second priority is social emergencies. I am thinking of those people who have lost their jobs, whether they are employed or their own bosses, who no longer have access to social assistance, who are on the brink of the abyss and who are at risk of falling into it if the federal state and the regions do not act quickly. The first decisions made seem to us to be a good one. It is essential to continue in this direction, taking care not to add the social disaster to the health crisis. Economic aid will obviously be needed to preserve our businesses, with attention to the self-employed and SMEs who do not have a lot of equity, especially in the horeca sector. Finally – and I think that this is foreseen in the framework of the future special powers – we will have to quickly foresee means for a revival and, better, a transition from our economic model to make it more solid, more resilient and less dependent on distant economies. I am thinking of China, where our health problems come from, but which also has a monopoly on the manufacture of certain medical devices or the export of raw materials, especially those necessary to manufacture reagents for coronavirus tests. Fortunately, our universities – including Namur – are working on alternatives. I hope that we will be able to tackle this project as soon as possible with the reorientation of our economy, which will mean that the coronavirus will have been defeated. Colleagues, we cannot ignore a reflection on the economic model that has fostered the development of the pandemic and weakened the resilience of our businesses. With regard to the budget, we are going to enter another world. European budgetary rules will inevitably have to be called into question in order to enable states to identify the necessary resources to respond to the crisis, to help the sectors affected, to help our economy recover and to reorient itself. Mr Clarinval, this subject must now be put on the table of the European Council, the ECOFIN Councils and other bodies which frame the budgets of the States and try to impose on them orthodoxy, sometimes to the detriment of the well-being of their people or their ability to invest in the transition. This will be the first construction site after the crisis. Colleagues, we are at the beginning of a long march, a difficult test to defeat the coronavirus and prepare tomorrow. It is today that this must begin with the vote of confidence that we have just put forward and with the provisional twelfths that we are going to vote on earlier. Do not believe that we can continue to act tomorrow by using yesterday's recipes, those that led us to where we are today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u15	Mr President, I see that some colleagues have already left the ship. Ladies and gentlemen, I am standing here with a bit of nodding knees, because the corona crisis is affecting each and every one of us very deeply. My wife is herself a corona nurse and is currently taking care of a lot of patients. The discussion of these provisional twelfths is, of course, dominated by the very necessary government initiative of the interdepartmental commission of EUR 1 billion. The Flemish Interest will make a constructive contribution to the use of these funds in all Committees of Parliament and in all working groups, which we hope to be able to participate in. Please, let us no longer talk about the extreme right or the extreme left and all kinds of exclusions in this House, but let us all work together in the interests of everyone in this country. I almost sound like a sort of Kristof Calvo, but I think he is giving his national unit a different interpretation, because I think he is talking earlier about the fact that the emergency government, which does indeed have insufficient legitimacy, should not be overly criticised. Colleagues, everyone in this country who is badly affected must be helped: workers, self-employed people in the entire service sector and all businesses. Hundreds of thousands of workers in this country are currently falling back on temporary economic unemployment. Employers estimate that the damage could amount to EUR 16 billion. We all know, of course, that today's EUR 1 billion will be well insufficient. We know that more extensive measures are in preparation. In addition to the expected guarantee scheme, there is no doubt that a bazooka, a public fund, will have to be drawn up to strengthen the capital and hence the solvency of the many affected companies. I understand, Minister, that in a few hours' time a new financial and economic experts' working group will be sitting together on economic incentives to guide consumers and businesses through the present absolute hell. Ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, a good thing that the Committee on Social Affairs has extended the right of bridging for the self-employed. However, more is needed. The 10 business support measures adopted by the Council of Ministers on 6 March 2020, including on social contributions, will still need to be deepened and expanded. I refer to the waiver of social contributions, for example. The EESC welcomes the fact that the FPS Finance and Minister De Croo have also assumed their responsibilities and extended or extended many tax payment periods. At the same time, the banking sector and even the energy sector must shoulder their responsibilities. After all, if the current crisis lasts long, many families will also be in trouble. Of course, we welcome the Flemish Government's decision not to allow Flemish people who become technically unemployed to pay gas, electricity or water for one month. These costs are taken over by the Flemish government. It is also clear, of course, that the aviation sector is being hit by a sledgehammer which, without intervention by the State, is in danger of falling into a fiasco. Greater flexibility of state aid rules will be needed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not the only ones in favour of an increase in temporary unemployment benefits, for example. The loss of income for workers must be reduced as far as possible. If purchasing power were to be compromised, we would be very far from home. In this context, it is also a good thing that workers who enter the temporary unemployment system for the first time should receive a flat rate of EUR 1,450 for the time being. It is also unnecessary to note that we ask the European Union and the European Commission in particular for a great deal of responsibility in terms of the budget and the government deficit. Inevitably, a number of exceptions in the Stability Pact will have to be activated. After all, health and economic and financial survival are now paramount. This night, the ECB announced an additional buy-back programme of bonds. I also read that a strategic reserve for medical equipment is being launched. As far as our amendments are concerned, we are still prepared to withdraw them, Mr Leysen, in the light of legitimate, practical concerns about the services of this house, in the light of the corona crisis. However, Mr Minister, I would like to point out that, certainly in these times, subject to the interdepartmental commission, of course, as well as a number of recurrent expenditure and some of the derogations requested, once again showing an increase in a number of expenditure, we continue to find irresponsible in these provisional twelfths. Another EUR 42 million for asylum and therefore double the budget for the first half of 2020 is certainly not justified now. Our own people are in need, our people, our employees and our employers, wondering how they will end up together, our companies and companies are in serious difficulties. We are in a deep and unseen crisis and there is a great deal of uncertainty. We need to protect our people, more than ever before, our people first. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Flemish interest will continue to abstain from these provisional twelfths. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u16	Mr Minister, these are exceptional circumstances. We are currently experiencing an unreal time. While outside the strict but necessary measures are being rolled out and enforced everywhere by local authorities, while the caregivers care for current patients, but above all prepare for what is to come and while a lot of people continue to run the essential sectors, today the draft on provisional appropriations is for the vote. This is a somewhat technical and administrative document, but it has an extra dimension today. CD&V would like to make two important comments. Our first comment concerns the temporary, targeted increase in expenditure. It is clear that this additional measure is not only necessary but also highly desirable. At this time when many are struggling, it is up to the government to provide a buffer for people's problems. These problems are in healthcare, where people need to be cared for and where the number of patients is likely to increase sharply. I am also thinking of the people who are becoming temporarily unemployed and of the companies where dramas are gradually unfolding. In this respect, it is important that, within the framework of the provisional appropriations, an interdepartmental commission of EUR 1 billion is provided for, which is likely to be far too low and will have to be raised, which we will also support. That will then happen, as our Prime Minister has already announced in the Government Declaration, together with the parties that have committed themselves to ensuring the transparent implementation of the powers of attorney. The measures to be implemented will, on the one hand, address the problems that need to be addressed very quickly. Fortunately, the system of temporary unemployment exists in Belgium, which is not the case everywhere in Europe. We are talking about the proposal which will be adopted in the near future. On the other hand, we must also look at the slightly longer term, when the economy must start up again and consumers must be able to boost the economy. In this respect, as a measure, we would like to suggest that some kind of helicopter money should be granted. By this we mean that a certain amount is made available to the heads of the family, that after a certain period of time they can be reinvested in the economy, something that helps families, but also the economy, and that has a great psychological effect. I come to my second comment. We must also call for budgetary caution. The Monitoring Committee figures are known: it speaks of a structural deficit of 2.9 % of GDP, or 14.1 billion, without the effects of the corona crisis. There are not only the challenges around COVID-19, but also the other challenges, which may have disappeared into the background for a while now, but which certainly remain important issues for the future, including the ageing of the population. Now is not the time for political games or for the drawing up of political wish lists. This is the moment when the government is given the power and the opportunity to take targeted action. That does not prevent us from stressing this fact: we must also work for a strong majority government, which can move forward after six months. We owe that to our people. Colleagues, these are exceptional circumstances, an unreal time with unprecedented measures. It is important that the financial resources are there to make everything work properly and to be able to take additional measures so that the government can give a strong signal and tackle the problems with full force. We owe this to all our inhabitants, to the victims of the corona crisis, to those who have to administer care, to all those who can get into trouble and to our businesses. We shall therefore give our full support to the draft provisional appropriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u17	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, butterflies in Brazil can cause a storm in Texas, according to the founder of chaos theory, the meteorologist Edward Lorenz. What started with a virus at a distant destination today leads to an unprecedented global threat to public health. What led to first nervousness about growth slowdowns is likely to become a global recession. What we are experiencing now may seem du jamais vu, but perhaps we have also been blind and overconfident. For us politicians, as for all citizens, this is a moment of reflection and modesty. Ensuring public health and health for all is now our first priority. But let us be honest, secondly, we must do everything we can to keep our economy running and to cover and finance the enormous cost of this crisis for the community and for the government. That won't be an easy exercise. A few weeks ago, we were allowed to greet Governor Wunsch of the National Bank in the Chambers Committee. He then talked about the need to restore public finances to budgetary balance. Necessary to be prepared as a state for economic and budgetary shocks, he said. We don't have that margin right now. There isn't one. We're gonna have to live with that. This means that, in the absence of structural reform of public finances, an additional invoice will be sent to future generations in the following years. Yes, the game changer COVID-19 already forced Wunsch to say that we could move the raid towards balance in the short term. But after this crisis, reality will catch up with us in no time. That will be a challenge that is even greater than this one we are facing today. We need care, common sense and coolness to act quickly and correctly. Fear is a bad counselor, because what begins in politics with fear usually ends with folly. It is only natural that this Parliament today approves the sixth instalment of provisional appropriations in the absence of a majority or support for a full budget. I regret that. I would like to thank all the groups who have withdrawn their amendments for additional expenditure and have given their support to include this provisional fee of EUR 1 billion. It goes without saying that our group of Flemish Liberals and Democrats will support this bill. However, the day will come when we will measure the additional budgetary deficit. If we really mean it seriously with the future of the next generations, we will have to seriously question our government's spending pattern. We have to have the courage to make choices. After conquering the corona virus and even during this crisis, let us be particularly careful with the funds that citizens and businesses entrust to the government. We have a bad report in this country when it comes to budgetary discipline. The granting of powers of attorney, inevitably at this time, increases the risk of further budgetary negligence. Let's face it, money creation is not the answer. That's delayed inflation creation. The necessary checks and balances must be provided, including during the next six months. This must and will be clarified, as I understand from the Minister. It's not time for blackbirds. It is not a time for profiling against political opponents. There is no time to continue to bathe us in the belief that with dotations only the problems are solved. It will be the citizens, the servants, the self-employed, the civil servants, the volunteers, old and young, but also the companies that will make the difference in the field. One colleague said at the previous sitting 'arrêtons de bosser'. No, we must keep this country running with great care. I would also like to express my thanks and appreciation for all the caregivers and volunteers whom I will also thank the following evenings at 20 o'clock with a hand clapping on the street. Let us transcend ourselves and overcome this ordeal together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank all the people who are still running our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two points: first, the classic instrument of the provisional twelfths. Like the previous five times, the sp.a group will also approve this sixth and hopefully last time this classic instrument constructively. Our group will continue to shoulder its responsibilities. The continuity of public services must be ensured. The government must be able to continue to work, and we must offer that certainty. The story of the mouth masks is clear, the government must be able to keep working, especially now. That brings me to my second point. Many of us have not yet experienced a greater crisis in their lives. In this time of crisis, it is therefore even more important for the government to be able to carry out its tasks properly. The need for a strong, well-functioning government, the importance of a well-developed healthcare sector, who dares to doubt it today? A well-developed healthcare sector, a well-developed welfare state, is now proving its importance every day. A strong government is needed to fight together with all of us, united, against the coronavirus, in order to protect health and safety, both concepts: health and safety, in the broad sense of the word "corona virus" of our citizens. Colleagues, we are asking for civility. We call for solidarity from our citizens. You're right. Our citizens can therefore, rightly and rightly, ask us to do so. We are all convinced that the fight against the corona virus is now a priority. We must therefore use all the resources we need to do so. Yes, colleagues, that will be many means. Thanks to the constructive proposals made by various Members of Parliament from different groups, the government now also has a first disk, I am sure that there will still be disks of funds included in the interdepartmental commission. We fully support that, as we will fully support the following discs. After all, additional resources will be needed. We simply have to do what is necessary, whether through a support fund for those who 'enjoy' temporary unemployment with the increase to be made in this respect, or through a guarantee fund or a relay fund. Colleagues, what's in a name? We must do what is necessary for everyone affected by this crisis: employees, self-employed workers, freelancers, artists... Anyone can make the list. We have to do what's necessary for everyone. Minister, I hope this will be done in constructive cooperation between Parliament and the government. As you promised in committee, this constructive cooperation concerns the commission and the additional measures, as well as other agreed budgetary topics which we will continue to discuss over the next few weeks. Colleagues, Minister, let us tackle together the various challenges and the fight against corona as a priority. Let's do this one-sidedly. Mr Minister, our group will fully support the draft provisional twelfths, including the interdepartmental commission, which has increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to go up to this rostrum, given the circumstances and the importance of the provisional appropriations which are taking on their full meaning at a time like this. Interim funding is Parliament's commitment to enable the executive and all its departments, government and various federal public services to continue to function and provide services to the public or to the public. What would our country be if there were no public services? While we are all mobilized today from the communes to the federal government through the Regions and the provinces, from the departments of authority to the social departments, from the federated entities to the federal government, we rely fundamentally on what is the structure of our modern state, namely public services. If there is a reason to vote unanimously for the provisional appropriations, it is because in times of crisis like that we are experiencing, we realize how important these public services too often criticized, too often caricatured, too often mistreated, which are too often the subject of dark cuts because of ideologies fed by assumptions of inefficiency or of too great importance from the contributions of our fellow citizens and our companies, are; we realize how much this does not stand up to the test of the facts, especially when, despite us, we are given to deal with a crisis of such magnitude as we currently know. Colleagues, Minister, let us remember the importance of public services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u20	Mr President, I will remain at my bench in order to reduce staff turnover a little. Minister, I have already spoken this morning on various aspects (health, economics). Indeed, many sectors are affected. I am not going to repeat my health calls to give caregivers the ability to provide the best possible care for patients. You know that for 16 months now, on the side of the CDH, we have always voted the provisional twelfths. This seems obvious to us, first and foremost for the continuity of the State – not the State in the political sense of the term, but the State in the sense of all the functions performed by each other to the citizens. I would like to say a word about this supplementary interdepartmental provision of EUR 1 billion. It's a lot and it's little at a time. That's a lot because, indeed, a billion, that's a big sum. At the same time, it is little, I fear, given the health impact, but also the economic impact. Indeed, the estimated economic impact amounts range from EUR 14 to EUR 16 billion. "Step by step." Of course, we are not going to do everything in one day. All this to tell you that we support both the provisional twelfths and this additional provision. However, other steps will have to follow, with certainty, if we want to be effective together, supporting for health, but also in the face of the impact of this pandemic on every citizen and on the economic level. Finally, I would still like to call on you to move the banks. I don't think it's indecent to say. Measures can be taken by banks. Some things have already been decided, but we can probably still add a few layers. The realities on the ground are extremely diverse and I try to get them back to the government, without asking questions each time. I imagine you're getting them, too. I call on the government as a whole to take every reality into account because the needs are there and it is our duty to respond to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u21	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wanted to thank the services that ensure the proper functioning of this Parliament. Colleagues, I also wanted to thank you for the unity messages you have sent almost all of us. This is very important in the sense that today, through this vote on the budget, we will be able to put this message of unity into practice. It has been more than a year since our country operated exclusively with provisional appropriations, which are calculated on the basis of the 2018 budget, without any new structural budgetary measures being implemented, since the government is in day-to-day business. The deterioration of the structural balance leads to a decrease in tax revenues and an increase in public expenditure. Last month, the Plan Bureau recalled that, with no policy change, the budget deficit is expected to reach 2.5 per cent of our GDP, or 12.4 billion euros, at the end of this year. A few days ago, it was the turn of the Monitoring Committee to report on its projections. It estimated that the structural deficit would be 2.9% of GDP in 2020, or more than EUR 14 billion. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an exceptional situation today, which is precisely what calls for an equally exceptional budgetary investment. This exceptional situation is manifested even by the discussion we have today, in an almost empty Chamber, which, however, gives rise to enormous expectations in the head of the population. While it is more than certain that the structural balance will continue to grow during this year, the first of our priorities today must be to fight effectively against the deadly and invisible enemy of coronavirus. We must support all those who are on the front line in this fight and whom we will never thank enough, but also all the direct or indirect victims of this virus. This priority should be shared by any party that claims responsibility and intends to act for the collective good. I would therefore not understand at all that one of our parties does not support the amended budget. I was pleased to hear the representative of N-VA say that he would support this budget. I regret, however, that you have, in spite of everything, had to question at the same time the legitimacy of this government, which has just obtained the confidence of Parliament by a vote which seemed quite clear to me. I regret that because the question is not there at all. Parliament is the emanation of the people, of the Nation. He supported the government. This legitimacy exists, whether you want it or not, and in a perfectly democratic way. The budget is also intended to ensure the proper functioning of the State. You may have your ideological positions on whether this state still exists or not. However, today this State has a mission and a duty to exist for the collective good of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u22	Mr President, I do not wish to polemicize any further, but we in Parliament occasionally have a debate on the primacy of politics. Certain parties then argue that having a majority in Parliament is sufficient to make a decision legitimate. Other parties consider that a majority is not sufficient and consider that more is needed than a majority in Parliament. They also believe that there is a need for support and consultation with civil society and that people on the streets should be listened to. We need to look more broadly than we do at Parliament. I am therefore somewhat surprised to hear from the speaker that in this matter the primacy of politics apparently consists only in reaching a majority in the vote in Parliament. That's noted on this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u23	Mr President, I would like to add a few words to what Mr Loones said. I don't know if you're following the polls. I know it's just sondages or polls. However, the most recent poll indicates that 55% of Belgians with the right to vote could not even be considered in the creation of what is called a responsible project. The figure was 55% of Belgians who were entitled to vote. It's just polls.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u24	Your interventions don't surprise me at all. I would suggest, in a way, that you question the legitimacy of this Parliament because you question the choice that was made by the voters in the last elections, precisely in the light of the forthcoming projections and the various polls. At one point, we must respect the democratic vote that was issued in the last elections and that made us indeed have the majority that has emerged and that is now emerging through our seats. We must respect the vote that was issued by the voters at the time of the elections and not through polls and, therefore, the government that obtained the majority of the same Parliament. To return to the discussions specific to this budget, as my colleague François De Smet reminded us this morning, we are now facing events of an unprecedented scale. The budgetary, economic and social consequences of VOCID-19 cannot yet be understood. But we know, on the other hand, one thing with certainty, is that serious and unprecedented budgetary means must be taken quickly. I would therefore like to welcome the Government's willingness to increase the interdepartmental provision by EUR 1 billion in order to be able to cope with the new expenditure generated by the spread of this pandemic. That is why, logically and clearly, my group supports this bill, which opens up provisional appropriations for the next three months. As you also know, this support will not stop. It will support all measures aimed at reducing the consequences of the spread of the virus. Binding measures are essential to limit the spread of this virus. Mrs Fonck has rightly explained that, paradoxically enough, this budget is both too little and too little, in any case the amendment which was adopted concerning the increase of this billion euro. To the question whether this billion will be enough or not, no one – not even the best experts – is able to answer today. Day after day, week after week, Parliament will therefore have a role to play, namely to ensure that it evaluates the additional measures to be taken and their budgetary costs. I am thinking in particular of the exemption from social security contributions for the self-employed, the postponement of the repayment of mortgages, in particular for those in the most difficult financial situations, but also of the support for the forgotten of this crisis, of which I have not yet heard about today: the homeless, asylum seekers, the disadvantaged and isolated. I would also like to take advantage of this debate to pay tribute to the work of the associations, to pay tribute to the solidarity and generosity of many citizens who come every day to help these people. This solidarity imposes on us the greatest humility. It also imposes dignity on us. But it finally sends us back to our sense of responsibility. Our primary responsibility in this crisis is to leave no one at the edge of the road. Of course, my group would have preferred to vote for a real budget and not for provisional appropriations. However, today's time is not to preference, but to political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u25	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u26	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1052/1+4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1052/1+4) The bill has 34 articles. The draft law has 34 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u27	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u28	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Vincent Scourneau, Leen Dierick, Egbert Lachaert, Gilles Vanden Burre, Evita Willaert, Nahima Lanjri, Benoît Piedboeuf, Caroline Taquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u29	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Jean-Marc Delizée. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u30	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in such circumstances, it would be quite logical to refer to the written report. However, as I do not know if colleagues have received it, I will take care of a quick oral report. We all know that with this health crisis, the precautionary measures that have been taken will, let us not doubt, have a significant economic impact. In our country, thousands of self-employed workers and small businesses are going to suffer or are already suffering the economic consequences of this epidemic of coronavirus. Of course, we stand by them, with the duty and also the responsibility to accompany them, to support them and, as far as possible, to compensate for the negative effects of this crisis. With this in mind, on 11 March 2016 several political groups tabled a bill to amend the law of 22 March 2016 on the right of access for self-employed workers. The aim of this proposal was to ensure that, in the future – and as of March 1, 2020 – a self-employed person, forced to discontinue his or her activity, would not have to wait until the first day of the following month to receive a replacement benefit. On this basis, our Social Affairs Committee met on 17 March, this Tuesday. Several amendments have been tabled. They complement the original proposal and I would even say, minister, that they give it substance. It was, in the end, a deeply revised text that was adopted as a result of the amendments. It relaxes the conditions for access to the bridge right and adapts it to the context of anti-coronavirus control. Indeed, since the bill was tabled on 11 March, the situation has changed and our daily lives have changed. Emergency measures were taken by ministerial decree on 13 March: closures of cafes and restaurants – the horeca sector –, the leisure sector and many shops on weekends. The scheme should therefore be adapted and strengthened in order to provide an adequate response to the self-employed in difficulty. The text which was adopted in committee and which is being put to the vote today at the plenary session of the House provides for the following measures. First, it maintains the relaxation of the bridge law contained in the original bill. This relaxation will continue, Minister, as soon as the health crisis is over. And that's a good thing. Indeed, as we said in committee, the earlier formula of this right was insufficiently known and used, because the access criteria were complicated. Secondly, the text provides for temporary measures for self-employed persons in difficulty in the context of the health crisis. It is on the one hand the independents who have to stop their activities totally or partially because of the emergency measures decreed by the Minister of the Interior, the Government and the National Security Council. These include the many traders whose establishments are closed by means of authority. On the other hand, they are self-employed persons who are forced to discontinue their activities for at least seven consecutive days. For these self-employed persons, it has been decided to grant aid in the amount of EUR 1,291 or EUR 1,614 for both March and April, if the dependent is dependent on the family. Minister, this is important because there are a lot of questions. The same applies to carers and caregivers. In addition, access to bridge law is exceptionally facilitated. For example, there is no requirement to be self-employed in a principal capacity for more than four quarters. You told us, Minister, that the estimated cost of these measures for the months of March and April was in the order of EUR 500 million. Other amendments to expand the system were discussed, but a majority of the members felt that the request should be referred to the new government, possibly with special powers. These amendments were rejected. On the other hand – and we must conclude on a positive note – the whole text resulting mainly from these amendments co-signed by seven political groups was adopted unanimously. That is my report, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u31	Minister, exceptional times require exceptional measures, and we are only at the beginning of the crisis in which not only our health apparatus but also our economy are under pressure and will be under even greater pressure. What is on the table here is a bitter necessity and therefore I am very pleased that we will be able to agree together to the temporary relaxation of the right of bridging for self-employed workers. I did not hesitate to sign the redrafted proposal and the amendment on behalf of the N-VA. We owe our thanks and endless respect to the many care providers who, often in ungrateful circumstances, continue to fight every day in the front line to minimise human suffering and social costs. The same applies to the security services and the many volunteers who contribute and show great solidarity. We must also show solidarity with the self-employed, who, from day one and today, still come up with creative solutions and thus show enormous resilience. Whether it is plexiglass at the cash register, the call for electronic payments, the organisation of takeaway or delivery at home or the many additional measures that should allow them and their employees to do their essential work in difficult circumstances, they deserve our respect and support. I also ask for respect for the cashiers and rack fillers, who are literally day and night to provide us with what we need every day. Some self-employed people have to stop their activities, while others of their colleagues have to make that choice for themselves, which has not been a choice for a long time. If the plumber's supplier fails, then the plumber cannot continue to work and if the hairdresser has to keep her salon open to a handful of customers a day, then she can only close her doors because of economic necessity. They also deserve our support, because they too will pay a high price. We do not know how high that price will be today, but there is no doubt that we must show solidarity with them. Many of their fixed costs continue to run, while their revenues are falling rapidly. Cash flow problems then quickly lurk around the corner, with all the consequences, even after the corona crisis. At least so important is that we provide in the proposal that self-employed persons who do not have to stop their activities for at least seven consecutive days should also be able to exercise the right of bridging. The measure now applies to the months of March and April, with retroactive effect to facts from 1 March of this year. The measure can also be easily extended by a royal decree. The chance seems real to me that this will also be needed quite quickly. The right of bridging will be easy to apply for and can be quickly paid out. That is good, because these are two necessary conditions for making the measure a meaningful measure. Colleagues, this is just the beginning of the corona crisis. I hope that we will be able to continue along this path and to fight together against corona and its consequences. That's why I want to make a new call right now. In a number of critical sectors, the shortage of labour already makes itself felt. It can be expected that this cut will only get bigger, among other things by people who are sick or become sick. At the same time, more and more people will become temporarily unemployed. It is good that we have a good system of temporary unemployment to cope with the first shocks of the corona crisis, but I would urge that the two systems of temporary unemployment, namely force majeure and economic unemployment, should be further refined with two concrete proposals. Firstly, put the condition of recognition as a company in difficulty temporarily in the refrigerator, because today whole sectors, in fact our entire economy, are in trouble. Secondly, remove the perverse effects of temporary unemployment systems and ensure that those who can still work in a safe and adapted way can also do so. We are also hearing more and more people who can or want to work from home, but cannot do so anymore, because, if necessary, the application for temporary unemployment is being put at risk by force majeure. We also get many questions from people in temporary unemployment who would like to help in places where the need is highest today, for example in care, in support of supermarkets, in agriculture and in horticulture. If this work can be organized safely, then we must make it possible. After all, why should we not allow people in temporary unemployment to earn money elsewhere, without these people immediately compromising their benefits with their original employer? If we can put a cap on it, it must be perfectly possible without perverse effects. The most important thing is that those sectors and vital services can really use that support today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u32	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the staff of the House, like other colleagues, because the work they do at these particularly complicated and exceptional times is important. I would also like to thank the services that have mobilized to allow this plenary meeting to take place. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing a crisis situation that has never been seen in our country. As other colleagues have said, the absolute urgency is the health of our citizens and the fight against this pandemic, this virus. My first thoughts go in particular to those who are in the front line. Nurses, nurses, doctors, health personnel, first aid workers, security services are today our heroines and heroes of everyday life who fight day and night to fight this virus. It is really to them that our first thoughts are directed and we give them our full support. But there is also the very significant economic impact associated with the virus itself, which affects workers and businesses, but also linked to containment and a series of closures that must be taken into account. This economic impact is enormous. That is why we are going to take urgent measures this afternoon to particularly support the structures directly affected. I am thinking of the businesses of the Horeca, the businesses in general that have to close, the very small businesses, the entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, the self-employed who, during this type of external shock that is the coronavirus, will have the most difficulty to survive and the most difficult to bounce back to return. It is to them that we think in particular and there is obviously no question of letting them down. They must be accompanied by strong measures, important measures, both financial and in terms of the arrangements to be foreseen. That is what we are going to do this afternoon by putting in place some of the mechanisms, namely the reinforcement, the widening of the bridge law for the self-employed and the self-employed, which allows them to have a financial safety net when the situation is difficult and in case of force majeure, which is clearly the case here. From the beginning, we support this text, which we have co-signed with colleagues from other political parties. In addition, we asked for urgency, a week ago here in plenary, because, as I was telling you, urgent measures had to be taken to accompany these sectors. In committee on Tuesday, at a meeting that was also held in an emergency, we also supported the amendments that were proposed. They are important because they allow the system to be expanded and strengthened. Those who will not be completely closed but will be partially closed as a result of the new measures will be able to rely on the full assistance of the bridge right, i.e. 1,300 euros per month for an isolated person. This simply helps to survive during this crisis, but it is fundamental. It is important that we can do it. These measures will be adopted this afternoon and the environmental group will enthusiastically support them. But in a second stage, we will have to communicate and communicate again. Indeed, I think that we are all faced with demands, with questions from traders, Horeca workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, from entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who do not know very well what is happening and who are in an emergency. These people see their daily lives completely destabilized, like that of all citizens. But for them, it has a huge financial impact. These new rules will have to be communicated through the bodies representing the self-employed and SMEs. It is also an appeal to the government to communicate even more strongly than hitherto. It's important. I cannot help but conclude my speech on this text with an appeal for other sectors that are also suffering so strongly. Workers are already in great difficulty. They are experiencing the direct and extremely violent impact of this pandemic. It is the workers in the service securities sector, the childcare workers in early childhood care, the free-lance workers, who have precarious contracts, whose situation is often inconclusive and who do not know very well how they can end the month. I am thinking of the players in the cultural sector, the young workers who have just returned to the labour market, who are at the beginning of the contract, on a fixed-term contract or on a trial period, and for whom it will also be necessary to imagine an accompaniment. I think, finally, of the parents who, today, have to take leave to look after the children. At the level of the parental leave system, new measures will have to be taken. It's essential. I conclude with an appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, and to the government: we must continue to take action. Action has been taken. We are going to vote this afternoon, but we will have to strengthen them further, take new measures and put new means on the table to enable everyone, the economic world, the workers, to overcome this heavy and long crisis. It is in a solidarity and collective way that we will pass through it. It is in this way that we will fight this virus, but also that we will accompany those who suffer the most from its economic impact today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u33	I give the floor to Mr. Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u34	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this time on behalf of the PS Group, I am obviously glad that we were able to work quickly on this text, going beyond political divisions. The importance of the crisis we are going through and the impact for the self-employed are such that the government's response must be strong, quick and easy to implement. Mr Minister, beyond what has already been said, I would like to go back to a few questions that I have from different people. I am thinking in particular of the independents who fall outside the scope of this right-of-way mechanism. Take the example of a kine that has a significantly reduced clientele, but still receives two or three patients a week, because they suffer from great breathing difficulties. These kines maintain their services to relieve these patients, but their income obviously melts like snow in the sun. However, their situation does not meet the conditions for seven days of successive activities. I would ask you, as the previous speaker has done, to reflect on a whole range of other categories of workers who are outside the scope of the law of bridge law, but who are having a heavy economic impact because of the current situation and the lack of clientele, should we say so? The second situation is that of booksellers and hairdressers. We've got to go back to the timeline. The bill was tabled on March 11. The Commission met on 17 March, took the steps. That evening, the National Security Council took further steps to change the situation, with a ministerial order and new implementing measures starting on 18 March. The booksellers and hairdressers, when we met in committee, were under the conditions of bridge law, since they were obliged to close the weekend. But, of course, with the publication of the new decree of 18 March, the situation is not clear. They wonder whether they are in or out of the scheme, because their businesses can remain open under conditions of social distancing. I would therefore like a clarification on this point, Minister. For example, if hairdressing salons are again allowed to open on weekends, in reality on Saturdays, the health precaution conditions that are required and the general containment obviously result in a substantial decrease in their turnover. Will they benefit, yes or no, from the bridge right? There are also regional aids. How do you see things for these categories of workers? Finally, as other speakers have said, clear communication by the department is very important. There's a call center. Of course, people in these call centers must be properly informed and trained to give the right information because it has varied over time. Since there have been a few coracs in this area, it is necessary to be extremely attentive and to make known the measures for those who can benefit from them. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, in the current context, we have done a useful job by putting in place this simplified alternative income mechanism for self-employed workers. It was urgent and necessary. Minister, with the broad support of Parliament, it is up to you to implement it in a practical, timely and effective manner. It goes without saying that the Socialist Group will support this text with conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u35	Does that mean that you sometimes vote without conviction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we discussed this proposal for a temporary aid scheme for self-employed workers in the event of urgency. In the event of an interruption in the professional activity of at least seven consecutive calendar days as a result of the coronavirus, the self-employed person will be entitled to a financial benefit. It goes without saying that the Flemish interest has supported this bill in committee and will do so again in plenary today. However, we do have some comments. If we look at the efforts made by the state governments, then the federal government must certainly not be left out and, as far as we are concerned, we can make a financial contribution. Self-employed people are the driving force behind our society, and they are now being hit very hard. In this exceptional situation, where certain sectors and occupational categories are going to suffer in the coming months because of the measures rightly taken, we urge the majority, as I have said in committee, to refrain from the minimum period of seven consecutive mandatory closing days. Since yesterday, the measure came into force to close all non-essential shops and businesses in the coming weeks. These self-employed people are already certain to receive financial compensation, but there will still be self-employed people who may or may not be able to leave the boat. That is why our group has tabled two amendments in order to make an exception for self-employed persons who, although interrupted, still have a minimum number of closed days per month, so that they can still claim a financial benefit. If we want to achieve the objective of clarity and simplicity of the legislative proposal, this must certainly apply to communication. There are still sectors, such as crèches, hairdressers and newspaper shops, which have not yet been sufficiently informed or for which half-hearted measures have been taken. For example, there is rightly criticism of the fact that hairdressers should not or should not close, while keeping the distance imposed there is physically impossible. Newspaper shops, which hardly get customers on the floor anymore, should also be allowed to remain open or - depending on how they are viewed - open. Crèches must remain open, even though children hardly show up because the parents of the reception children are not nursing staff or because most parents can work from home. The crèches are therefore suffering badly because they no longer have income while their operating costs remain. These are just a few examples of self-employed people who are not entitled to contributions if they would voluntarily close. Even the final communication on the planned financial compensation for the affected sectors must be as clear and as efficient as possible, so that the self-employed do not subsequently drown in all kinds of paperwork. The speed with which support is achieved is also vital. Despite Minister Ducarme, the initiator of this proposal, in his explanatory statement to the committee, our group was not aware of national unity in the consultations or involved in the tabling of the majority amendments. We regret this. Our amendments for even better support for the self-employed were voted down. On social media, I have since read certain statements by politicians stating that the minimum number of days of interruption should be dropped. In that case, I look forward to voting on our amendments later, and therefore, beyond the party boundaries, count on your support. If, in general, additional aid can be granted for certain categories of occupation, we must take it. We have to bite through the sour apple. The more people we can keep at home with such incentives, the better, waiting for a real lockdown. Now too many people have to leave the house for the brode.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u37	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I join colleagues in commending the work of House staff to ensure that our work continues. I sincerely thank them, as I solemnly thank all the front-line services that work in appalling conditions for the well-being of our loved ones, our families and ourselves. As our Prime Minister said on Tuesday night in his address to the Nation, we are going through an unprecedented period. The priority is the health emergency, it cannot be otherwise. In order to combat the spread of VOCID-19 in the best possible way, drastic measures have been taken. These measures impact our daily habits, our lifestyles and consequently our travel, our professional activities and our social ties. In a few days, it is a whole economy that has virtually stopped, with an impact on our businesses, our self-employed and our liberal professions, impact which we cannot measure today all the consequences. The government has taken stock of the seriousness of this situation. The decisions that have been made in recent days are strong and exceptional, but they are necessary, proportionate and useful if we are to effectively combat VOCID-19. A series of socio-economic measures have been adopted, including those relating to the relaxation of the bridge law that we are submitting to this Assembly. The objective is to be able to offer replacement income to the self-employed affected by the coronavirus crisis. Self-employed persons already benefit from the bridge right, the rules of which are laid down in the Act of 22 December 2016. Last year, the scope of this law was extended to all types of force majeure. Today, measures taken to limit the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic impact many independents and business leaders who have to limit or interrupt their activities, whether they are horeca, cultural, recreational or non-food retail. As the virus spreads, independents are also quarantined. Further activities will be halted due to the general slowdown in the economy, but also to the willingness of citizens to apply the precautionary rules as strictly as possible. The bill that we introduced on the initiative of Minister Denis Ducrame implements several temporary measures for the calendar months of March and April that will ensure that the financial benefit of the bridge right is granted to any independent forced to discontinue its activities because of the VOCID-19. In concrete terms, it is the self-employed person who must stop completely – and I insist on this – his activities in accordance with the decrees of 13 and 18 March 2020. I am thinking, for example, of coffee operators and the horeca sector in general or of fitness centres. Secondly, this provision also concerns the self-employed person who has to interrupt partially – and I stress again the term – his activities pursuant to those same orders. For example, I will mention all businesses that are now obliged to close the weekend and to comply with reduced schedules or arrangements such as systematic appointments. In both cases, the self-employed will receive an income replacement allowance of €1,291.69 – for single persons – and €1,614 – for those with dependent families. As for the self-employed person who would not be subject to the orders of March 13 and 18, but who is forced to stop his activities either because he or one of his relatives is affected by the VOCID-19, or because he lacks labour or raw materials, or because he considers that, for his safety and that of his clients, he has no choice but to discontinue his activities completely, the full amount of the compensation will be paid to him as soon as the interruption reaches at least seven days during the calendar month. It is important to note that all self-employed persons – including caregivers, assisting spouses and starters – will be able to apply for this assistance. Even those who had benefited from it and who had exhausted the entire right in the past will also be able to avail themselves of it. Finally, in addition to the exceptional temporary measures I have just mentioned, the provision provides for an improvement of the ordinary law provisions of the bridge law. Interruptions in a calendar month will now qualify for a partial financial benefit, ranging from 25 to 100 per cent of the monthly financial benefit, depending on the number of seven-day periods during which the self-employed person is forced to interrupt. This relaxation will, as you understand, apply once the crisis period of VOCID-19 has passed. I must stress all the implementation work that this will require on the part of the social insurance funds and the Minister for the Independents, who is at the initiative of this proposal. Minister Ducrame was able to confirm to us that the pre-registration system for applications was already working with the caisses. These bridge law measures are in addition to the measures already in place at the level of social security for self-employed workers: the possibilities of reducing, exempting and deferring social contributions, but also, in the event of sickness, the whole of the sickness and disability insurance of self-employed workers, which, as you know, was further greatly improved in 2019, notably by the abolition of the waiting period. Of course, other measures will be added, including regional measures that have been taken in recent days. For all these measures, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister announced on Tuesday that a macro-economic monitoring has been put in place and will allow a regular assessment of the measures and measures to be adopted in the light of the realities we will encounter on the ground. It is clear that we are facing an evolving crisis. New measures are likely to have to be claimed. The first results of this macro-economic monitoring should be expected. Of course, the government will strengthen them if necessary. The King has a delegation to extend the measure in the event of a continuing health crisis. The objective is in fact very simple, ladies and gentlemen: to help our businesses and our self-employed. This measure is essential to provide oxygen, along with other measures, to our independents. Nor should we forget that these measures are tens of thousands of jobs that we are trying to preserve and so many families must feel financially supported. We therefore ask you once again to support this text as you did last Tuesday in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing difficult times. The rapid spread of the corona virus has led us to take drastic measures. In the interest of public health, schools were closed, visitors were denied access to residential care centres, services centres, concert halls, cafes and restaurants. Businesses that do not sell food or medicines were closed. It doesn't have to be said that this has a huge impact on our social life. It also has a huge impact on our economy. Both large and small companies are struggling. This also applies to self-employed workers who have had to close their cases and to self-employed workers who hardly survive because no one comes to the floor. Exceptional situations require exceptional measures. For this reason, the government has already taken a number of measures to alleviate the suffering. The government worked and worked, inter alia, to further ease economic unemployment by raising it to 70% of gross wages. Payment plans were drawn up for social employers' contributions, VAT, corporate tax, personal and corporate tax and a postponement or exemption from social contributions for self-employed persons. Colleagues, what is now before us is a relaxation of the right of bridging for the self-employed. Call it some kind of replacement income for self-employed people. Of course, I have also co-signed the bill with great conviction. Before March and April 2020, it means that a financial payment of the bridging right will be granted. It will be guaranteed to any self-employed person who has to interrupt his activity due to the coronavirus. It is generally about two groups of self-employed people. The first group concerns the self-employed who, as a result of the coronavirus and the decisions taken by the government on Friday 13 March 2020 and Wednesday 18 March 2020, are obliged to interrupt and close their cases. In concrete terms, it concerns all non-essential services such as cafés, restaurants, clothing stores that are already completely closed, both during the week and at the weekend. Then there is also the group of self-employed who are not obliged to close down, but who, on their own initiative, decide to close their case for at least seven consecutive days because of the coronavirus. This may be a self-employed person who himself is confronted with corona in himself or in his family and is quarantined. It can also be about self-employed people who, because of the coronavirus, have little or no customers anymore. This could be a garagist, a physicist, a newspaper dealer or a sandwich shop that is near a school or a company and that sees sales drop dramatically because there are no more customers. If they decide voluntarily to close the case for at least one week, they can claim this benefit for the selfemployed for the full monthly amount. It is EUR 1,291.69 for a person without a family burden or EUR 1,614.10 for self-employed persons with a family burden, even if one has not closed the whole month. From seven days of continuous closure, this premium will be paid. Moreover, it does not take into account whether or not the bridging right has been used. That already existed for cases of force majeure. This is an additional measure provided for by the government. Even if the right of bridging is already exhausted, this can be invoked. This will not be taken into account in the future either. Self-employed persons who have not been self-employed in the main occupation for four quarters or who have not yet paid a quarterly contribution are also eligible for this measure. As I said, this applies to the months of March and April, from 1 March to the end of April. If necessary, the Government may extend this measure. Let's hope this won't be necessary, but if we have to, we can. I also think the government will do this. In addition to this exceptional relaxation specifically provided for by the coronavirus, there is an additional relaxation of the bridging right. You know that self-employed people can rely on this when faced with force majeure, which means that they have to close their cases. Normally the benefit was not received until the month following the month in which it was closed. This will be different from now on: as soon as seven days are closed, we can call on it. So we do not have to wait for the following month. That is good: even after corona times, this relaxation will continue to apply. Self-employed persons who then close for one or two weeks can therefore rely on the right of bridging for that shorter period. That is a very good thing. Of course, we are in favour of this relaxed scheme in order to support self-employed people who need it. Today, we expect every citizen's sense of responsibility, in the interests of all of us, to be responsible for the health of all. We ask that and it means that some people have to close their shop or not get to work. However, we are not blind to its consequences, including in economic terms. It is therefore a good thing that we respond appropriately with these measures and provide a financial bridge, a benefit for the self-employed who are forced to close their business or voluntarily for the sake of the coronavirus. Finally, I would like to express my gratitude and respect for all those who work day in day out in the fight against corona. First of all, of course, doctors and aid workers, but actually much wider than that: all the people who work in the distribution sector and are filling the shelves in the department stores, like those who keep our public transport running, our police, our fire department, you name it. We must also not forget the many volunteers, the people who are simply selflessly committed to those who are struggling. I find it heartwarming that there is so much solidarity and therefore I would also like to express my gratitude to that group. Our group will, of course, approve this measure in its entirety. I hope that we will approve him unanimously, as we did on Tuesday in committee, with a majority and opposition together. This is for the good of the people, for the good of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u39	Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the PVDA Group, I would like to thank the staff of the Chamber for the hygiene precautions they take to enable the plenary and the petite committee. We are at war with an invisible enemy, the coronavirus. In order to make them small, we need to take drastic and necessary measures. That is why the Labour Party believes that self-employed workers should also be protected as much as possible, because they also belong to the broad working population, which is now in the line of fire. We get daily testimonies from self-employed people who say they live from week to week or even day to day. It is therefore very difficult for them to stand up, unlike the large company, which enjoys a special tax favor regime throughout the year. On the other hand, self-employed people pay the full amount of taxes each year. In Zelzate, where I am a ship, we have therefore already met the self-employed: we have listened to their desires and implemented a tax shift, whereby we grant a discount to the self-employed in return for a greater contribution from the large company. We also decided to postpone the business tax in Zelzate for the time being so that the self-employed get some breathing space. We also need the measures we have taken there at federal level. Many self-employed people also beg for clarification of the measures taken. They do not understand why they do not qualify for the lockdown measures and others do. We believe that this is because, unfortunately, these measures do not go far enough. We need far more drastic measures. It is a consensus of the scientific committee that is considering the fight against the coronavirus that we need a real lockdown. This means that any non-essential production must be closed in order to protect the workers and the self-employed in this country. You can feel that bubbling up in society, too. People talk to us about that. Workers and self-employed people say that it is not right that they should continue to work while others can just stay at home. So there's something wrong with that. Secondly, health must always take precedence over economic interests. That's what the employees and the self-employed feel. Let me give you the example of Kristof, a garagist who started in early 2019 and just started to get to speed. Like many other sectors, he is now in uncertainty because there is a great deal of uncertainty. It may remain open, but fortunately the citizens follow the directives well and so very few customers come on the floor. According to his prognosis, he would suffer a turnover loss of 80%. For him, a full lockdown would be much easier. He can then simply close his garage and appeal to the aid measures of both the regional and the federal authorities. After all, payments and invoices continue to be received. I the case of Kristof is that 1,300 euros per month in payments and 1,500 euros per month rent for the garage. There are also fixed costs such as software, gas and electricity. If that could be postponed, it would be a very big drink. He added that we all saved the banks in 2008 and that it would only be logical if the repayment of mortgage loans could now be postponed. Another example has already been mentioned: local newspaper dealers may also remain open. I give the example of Filip, who says: I have a small shop space but there is a lot of passage in my shop. People often shop there everyday like cigarettes, lotto forms, newspapers, etc. He is concerned because he cannot guarantee the necessary precautions as a social distancing for his customers. The customers are fairly packed together and they cannot comply with the necessary distance rules. He says, "I'm going to shut down voluntarily, as a precaution, but what now? Those traders are wondering what situation they are now in. It is those examples of Kristof and Filip that are recognizable for many self-employed people. We have just heard the example of hairdressers. They may only allow one customer at a time in their hairdressing shop. A lot of people are delaying a hairdresser's visit right now. They follow the directives, and luckily so, and we hope they will continue to do so. So there's a lot less people coming to those hairdressers. All those small self-employed people who cancel precautionary agreements and lay down their work out of concern and out of solidarity with their customers, with their fellow people, are now closing their cases. It is a pity, of course, because our local self-employed are shaping our economic fabric. They make sure the neighborhood stays liveable. They also have an important social function. They are already competing against the competition of the megamarkets and online shopping in chains of large companies. We must, however, lukewarm their creativity. They are now setting up alternatives. Take-away services are set up, or they write out vouchers. Despite the solidarity that is growing from the bottom up among the population, who are making informed purchases to support those local traders, the loss of income will unfortunately be enormous for some people. It will be considerable, and sometimes even insurmountable. We must therefore protect and reward the dynamism and creativity of these self-employed people. It is for this reason that we will support the legislative proposal today. It is a step in the right direction. It provides for a relaxation of the rights of bridging, whereby self-employed persons can benefit from a payment of EUR 1,291 without a family burden after seven days and EUR 1,614 with a family burden. All affected self-employed persons will be entitled to the right of bridging for the months of March and April. PVDA-PTB will support the bill because the economic impact in this way can be mitigated. In this sense, we are taking a constructive approach and will support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u40	Mrs. Lanjri would like to interrupt you for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u41	Mr De Vuyst, I think it is important that we create clarity and that we do not worry the self-employed. I have deliberately set an example of those services which are not obliged to close down. If a sandwich shop or a newspaper shop gets little people on the floor, then the operator can effectively close and he will be eligible for the premium. The government will not say that they should all be excluded as a precaution. Imagine that we would say today that essential services should also be excluded or that we should exclude them as a precaution. This would mean that we would not be allowed to leave supermarkets, grocery stores or pharmacists open tomorrow either. It is well known that these shops must remain open. People are also creative. I have already seen that in pharmacists and in many other shops, such as a daily shop, plexiglass is put in front of the counter, so that contact with the customer is even safer. Let it be clear: it is not true that a newspaper dealer should not close if, as a result of the coronavirus, no more people come to his shop near, for example, schools and businesses, while another one who has a lot to do and which is necessary in that neighborhood remains open, provided some creative solutions. We cannot say that anyone who wishes to do so can simply exclude it as a precaution. We have to be careful, but I really do not want people to say that supermarkets or grocery stores can also be excluded as a precaution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u42	Indeed, the bill provides for the possibility that self-employed workers may also close effectively as a precaution for the coronavirus in order to protect customers. They can then use the federal instrument of the bridge law. However, this does not mean that they can also benefit from the regional measures. Certain sectors which are closed down are included, while others are not included. There is therefore a great deal of uncertainty for some sectors and for some people. That feeling's bubbling up. We hear that, too. Many people do not really know what they are up to and, of course, need to be well communicated in order to reassure them. Nevertheless, I insist that in the interests of everyone's health a complete lockdown is necessary. This means that non-essential production and services must also be paralysed in the interests of public health for all. For many traders and self-employed persons, such a measure has the advantage of clarity, allowing them to register directly on the various existing aid measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u43	Mr De Vuyst, I hear you pleading for a complete lockdown. I would like to call on all Members to show the necessary humility. The political world in general has not made the best turn over the past few days and weeks with the overrule of scientific advice. I would especially let the experts do their job. The political world must above all support their work and not advocate a complete lockdown here in the pulpit. After all, we are all scientifically insufficiently educated to do so. I'd say cobbler stays with your reading. I'm giving that advice to all the politicians. Scientists need to use science companies and their expertise. It's been a long time since we've been able to determine when the lockdown should be due to some kind of gut feeling of our own.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u44	Mr Anseuw, it is not my intention to create panic, but what the scientists say seems to be interpretable. If we can believe the advice of some experts from the scientific committee, I think they have also said that we should gradually phase up, scale up, just to avoid panic. Evolution, although implicit, is very clear. At least I note this from statements by Mr Van Ranst, who, in my opinion, says that in principle the measure necessary to eliminate this pandemic is a lockdown, which means that non-essential production units should actually close down. It is rather strange that self-employed people should no longer be allowed to open their businesses, while at the moment a lot of people are still working together in large production facilities. That's two sizes and two weights. It seems as if the pandemic in the production halls cannot be spread if social distancing is observed. I'm not getting ahead of myself. I don't have a glass ball. The measure of lockdown would provide a lot of clarity and it would offer the greatest chance of protection for all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u45	Mr Lachaert has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u46	Mr President, a very fresh smell surprises us every time we take up the stands today. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of the draft law in committee last Tuesday, it has been quite a loose end. We note that many self-employed people, like employees, are affected by this crisis. Last week, the federal government decided to close several businesses in certain sectors, whether on weekends or not. This is, of course, a disaster for the self-employed concerned. They were looking forward to what the government was going to do with this. This measure was already prepared in a first legislative proposal, even before the corona crisis broke loose in our country. With Tuesday's amendment, we have relaxed a great deal in that bill. I think it is a good thing that this has been modified, because it was unclear whether start-ups could also benefit from this bridging fee. Many young people start with an independent activity and cannot fall back on much. At first the proposal was that the bridging allowance could be used if four quarters had been paid as a self-employed person for the social status of the self-employed. This condition is no longer present. The criterion now is that one is insured as a self-employed person in the social status of the self-employed and pays contributions there. Since Tuesday's committee session, a lot of questions have been asked by everyone who has participated in the legislative proposal. For example, there are many questions from self-employed persons in the secondary profession who ask if they could avail themselves of this scheme. That is not the case. It has to be the main occupation. This has to do with the main status where you are insured. I think that we should also look at this for that group to see if we can do something in the longer term. However, we would like to put this proposal to the vote in the short term so that we can immediately grant a bridging loan to self-employed persons who have to close or not close in part. The other group of self-employed in the secondary profession is much more diffuse. One has different categories of people who make little money to people who make a lot of money. There is also a social insurance obligation in another statute where you may also get a benefit or a wager, which makes this not so obvious. I also got a question about the following. In the logic of the bill, it concerns self-employed people who have a shop or a particular business and who have to close it, in the week and perhaps also on weekends. However, many businesses operate under the umbrella of a company, e.g. a bvba with three managers or another form of company with a number of directors together. The question is what was the criterion for obtaining the bridging fee. That may require some clarification. If there are three directors in a company, there are no other activities and the company's business must be closed, who will receive the bridging compensation? I have discussed this again with the main petitioner in his cabinet. Closing down the activity of the case is the decisive criterion of whether there should be a bridging fee. If the directors, each individual, no longer have any income, they will receive the benefit personally. This seems to me to be the interpretation that I have discussed with the main petitioner. Maybe he can confirm that later. There may be some questions about this, because many self-employed people no longer have a single-man business or have the status of a self-employed person. If the business they run closes, then I think it is important for the directors to be able to benefit from the bridging fee, provided that they have no other income. We can be very pleased that we were able to deal with this quickly at the committee session on Tuesday, with a great deal of support. I hope that this will be the case in the plenary vote that we will have in various places in this building. We therefore fully support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u47	Mr President, Minister, we will obviously support this text. However, let me stress a few points. So I ask you to maximize direct communication. Indeed, it is known that bridge law is insufficiently known by a number of people. I also ask you to facilitate the many procedures as best you can. Moreover, the question also arises, not for today but for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and, no doubt, quite urgently, of the scope of this system, which must be able to be extended. Earlier, we talked about physiotherapists. If they continue to do respiratory physiotherapy, they keep a few patients, but for the rest, since it is elective care and not urgent, they have to stop their activity, which is a problem. We set the example of hairdressers. To the best of my knowledge, they can appeal to the bridge law, depending on the decision they have taken with regard to their activity. The independents were cited as complementary. We are overwhelmed by multiple demands with very different realities. Despite all the requests I have received, I am unable to draw up a list of the situations involved. Minister, the question arises as to the procedure to be put in place to enable a record to be drawn up of specific situations which cannot yet fall within the scope of this system. In the coming days, we must be able, in good intelligence and in a constructive way, to examine the desirability of extending this field of application. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know how we can proceed on this point. The special number starting with 0800 or the reference e-mail address is referred to the Economy FPS. But time is needed to get an answer. Above all, we need a political translation, once these questions are put to the SPF Economy. Finally, I want to address the situation of particularly vulnerable independents who are in the process of judicial reorganization, for whom I have had several requests in recent days. As you know, for them, the law prohibits any postponement of charges. The law prohibits them from accessing any arrangements that may be put in place for self-employed persons (social contributions, FPS Finances, ONSS, etc.).). I therefore call for a rapid review of their situation. These self-employed persons have gone through difficult times, have continued their activity and sometimes employ a number of employees they continue to pay, particularly in the construction sector. If they are not given a small boost, they will be completely unable to continue and this will lead to job losses for employees, since they are self-employed entrepreneurs. Could you consider these issues urgently in the coming days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u48	Mr President, I would like to explain my amendment later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u49	We're gonna finish the general discussion first. In fact, it was agreed at the Conference of Presidents that no amendments would be tabled. But I will come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u50	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is unreal at the moment to sit here or to be outside. However, this is only the beginning of a huge challenge that we all have to face together. The first priority is, of course, our health, there is no doubt about that. Drastic measures are therefore needed. We close shops and cafes and we avoid social contact as much as possible. However, these drastic measures also mean that no more money will be received from the self-employed while their accounts continue to run. I am thinking, for example, of cafes with brewery contracts with a compulsory purchase. So they have to keep paying for that. This relaxation of the bridging credit is therefore good. After all, it ensures that more self-employed families can survive. That's what it's really about, survival. We give them that benefit when the government obliges them to close and when they stop their activity for seven days because their customer base is falling. However, we also retain that benefit when they are creative. In recent days, we have seen that many self-employed people switch to take-out or online activities. The relaxation of the bridging allowance is not really just about today. Of course, it provides income today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, but at the same time it also ensures that self-employed people do not go under completely and that, when this crisis is over, they will be able to resume their activities. I believe that this measure demonstrates the importance of solidarity and strong social security. A social security that should protect as many people as possible. That is why the sp.a. will also approve this bill. At the same time, we would like to call for the same solidarity to be shown to everyone, because everyone is affected. It doesn't matter what statute one is employed in, everyone is in the same trouble. I am also thinking of psychologists, logopedists or physiotherapists, who cannot close for seven days. They can do so in themselves, but they still like to vouch for those who need urgent assistance. The non-urgent customers reduce, but they remain open to the urgent customers during the week. Can we also look at whether a solution is possible, because they can also partly relieve the burden on hospitals, where there are other priorities? I am also thinking of workers, for example those who have not yet completed sufficient working hours and are therefore not entitled to temporary unemployment, those who work with interim or day contracts, those who do not have access to temporary unemployment because they have an independent additional occupation. I therefore support the call of the social partners, who have concluded a collective agreement and have issued an opinion, to ease access to temporary unemployment for those people, so that they can also count on an income and a supplement of EUR 5, regardless of the temporary unemployment system in which they are living. In this way they can also count on an equalisation for annual holidays next year, when the worst of the crisis will hopefully be over. The same applies to freelancers, artists, technicians. They are all in need, too, because they are currently completely out of income. Orders and orders fall out, performances are cancelled, customers cancel out massively. That is why I call on the government to provide a solution for them as well. Their families must also be able to count on our solidarity. I would like to draw particular attention to the cleaning aid. Right now, they're holding hands in their hair. Their customers cancel out massively and, in fact, they must go from family to family without too much protection. They're on the verge of passing on the virus. Given these health risks, I would urge the federal government to add the cleaning aid to the list of professions that are no longer allowed. If we do not allow companies to remain active, we must at the same time ensure that the cleaning aid now working part-time for a minimum wage can still count on sufficient income to make ends meet. They must not go under with their families by means of part-time benefits. Mr Minister, the Walloon and Brussels Governments have decided to continue to pay the subsidy up to EUR 14 for the total amount per service cheque to the cleaning companies. It is the intention of these governments to allow the cleaning companies to close down, but still to pay the wages of the cleaning aids which are working part-time so that they do not have to fall back on the heels of part-time temporary unemployment benefits. I would certainly urge the Flemish Government to do the same, but given that it is a subsidised sector, I would also like to call on colleagues here in Parliament to provide for a RSZ exemption, at least for the EUR 9 paid by users per hour and possibly for the total amount of EUR 14, by means of a rapid procedure for the second quarter starting in March. If these companies have to close because of the health risks to the cleaning aids and the families where they are going to clean, then the cleaning aids will still retain their wages and the cleaning companies will be able to resume their activities after the crisis. Finally, I would like to thank the staff of the Chamber for their efforts to enable our plenary session, in very strange circumstances, in the interests of everyone's health. I express my condolences and wish a great deal of courage to everyone who was affected by that very filthy virus. I can't put it any other way. I would also like to express my gratitude to all those who continue our society. I am thinking, of course, of the care staff. I am afraid I will certainly forget categories, but I also mention the drivers who provide our supplies, the people who are at the checkouts or who are filling the shelves, the postmen, the home helpers, the police, the aid workers, the ambulances, the train escorts, the train drivers, and also all the volunteers who are now spontaneously shopping for the neighbours or for vulnerable people. I'm thinking of people making drawings, people singing in front of the windows of the nursing homes, people choking mouth masks. I am also thinking of our prisoners who have started choking mouth masks. They are all our heroes; I think they are well aware that we will only get through the crisis with greater solidarity. We must never forget all these people, all our volunteers. What we must never forget is that we will still need this strong solidarity after the crisis is long over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for his initiative to ease the conditions for this right of access. I am referring here both to the initial proposal and to the amendments tabled in committee in order to minimise the impact of the essential health measures decided by the government on 13 March and reinforced on 17 March. The objective we are pursuing here is clear: by combining these provisions with the measures taken by the federal government – temporary unemployment or deferment of payment of social contributions – we must be able to limit the economic and social damage associated with this crisis of the coronavirus. We are already seeing this damage today while ignoring both its duration and its magnitude. That is why the monitoring that has been announced will be of crucial importance. Today, we are constantly being questioned by these independents, who are worried and need clarification. Minister, I agree with the requests made by my colleagues because while this bill is essential and will provide answers, there is still a need for clarification. As Mr Delizée also said, as rapporteur this time, this bill was indispensable in view of the crisis we are going through today. But it will also be useful after, because there will be one after coronavirus. There will be a need to support these independents who will be forced by circumstances to interrupt or suspend their activities. As you know, my group is deeply committed to social liberalism and federalism of cooperation. It is in this that we are confident in the measures that will be taken or that have already been taken by the federated entities and that will also be able to strengthen this solidarity that we must now more than ever bear witness to all economic actors, including the independent ones. We know that, and that is an excellent thing: the number of self-employed people is growing in Belgium today. But it is worrying to note, at the same time, that their income continues to decline. This is reflected in the figures of INASTI. In 2018, the number of self-employed persons had once again increased by 2.29% compared to 2017, but at the same time, the average net income, which serves as the basis for calculating social contributions, had decreased by 3.11%. This situation must alert us. It obliges us to give strong answers today. We cannot accept that those who finally make use of their freedom to undertake and their creative spirit and therefore create jobs are penalized for their career choices. In 2017, the Neutre Syndicat pour Indépendants was already pulling the alarm bell. It appeared that 21% of the self-employed mainly earned less than €1,139 a month, i.e. the European, not even Belgian, threshold of poverty for the isolated. According to the same trade union, the main reason for this is the low level of social protection available to the self-employed in the event of financial difficulties, and a fortiori in the event of force majeure independent of their will, as in the case of the health crisis in which we find ourselves today and which strikes the self-employed too hard. It is therefore logical, ladies and gentlemen, that my group will support the government in its approach as well as in all those that it will still take to limit the economic consequences of this terrible crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u52	Mr President, at the outset, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups in your House for supporting the urgency and the proposal and the general amendment that I submitted to them at the committee meeting this Tuesday. If we have done so, it is first of all because of the urgency. Then, working by means of a proposal saved us time, because we are also fighting against time. Prime Minister Sophie Wilmès recalled earlier: priority is given to the health of Belgians, to the support to be given to caregivers who are fighting on the front line and to the employment of our compatriots, in order to guarantee them, in these times more than disturbed, financial resources. I want to put on an equal footing this proposal – which seems to be unanimous in plenary, as was the case in committee – and the initiatives taken by my colleague Muylle with regard to temporary unemployment. Beyond the measures that have been taken in terms of deferral in the field of ONSS and in tax matters and beyond the axes on which the government continues to work, this proposal in favour of the self-employed... The proposal provides support for the self-employed and managers who have to limit or interrupt their activities. That's important. We're talking about self-employed people who have to limit or interrupt their activity. I heard some misconceptions today. I do not want to make a political policy, but if we want to send a clear message, we must agree on the meaning and details of this proposal. You have asked a number of questions and I want to answer them precisely. For all the cases I will submit to you, the self-employed affected by the coronavirus in March and April 2020 will receive the full monthly benefit, amounting to a financial support of EUR 1,291,69 or EUR 1,614,10 for self-employed persons with a family burden. In concrete terms, this amount is granted for two months. If we are talking – and you are right, Mr Lachaert – about the self-employed mainly, let us stress that the supplementary self-employed are perfectly eligible for the exemption from social security contributions. But if this measure is potentially so important in terms of the budget – 1.3 billion monthly – it is because we do not want to leave any independent on the edge of the road. Firstly, there are the closures imposed. The first scenario is the self-employed person who has to completely stop his activities in accordance with the decrees of 13 and 18 March 2020. I am thinking here of bars, restaurants, all the shops that are hit by the ban on opening. The second scenario is those self-employed persons whose whole or part of the activity remains authorised but whose part is at least modalised by the decrees of 13 and 18 March 2020. Under this notion of partial interruption, we find all the shops closed on weekends. You can find the restaurant, which keeps an activity of dishes to take away. There are also hairdressers who are included in essential services and who remain open but are obliged to restrict their activity by receiving by appointment. In this scenario, they too have access to the bridge right. As has been noted by a number of colleagues, I come to a third scenario in which the independents I am going to refer to find themselves. They will also have access to the bridge right. The third scenario, Mr. Delizée, Mrs. Fonck, Mrs. Lanjri, is the care professions that must intervene on a regular basis: dentists, kines, respiratory kines, osteopaths. All these medical professions, in order to have access to bridge law, must in fact close for a week, but if, during the same week, they must intervene urgently, they will of course have access to bridge law. Scenario four. This applies to any independent person who is not covered by the March 13 and 18, 2020 orders but who, as a result of the coronavirus, must restrict or discontinue his activities. An example of this is self-employed persons who could be quarantined, or those whose symptoms a family member has, as you mentioned, Mr. Scourneau. It also targets self-employed persons who will interrupt their activities in the light of the decline in commercial and service activities. So it can be all the independents. Then we do not exclude anyone. This is an essential aspect of the proposal. A number of figures have been found in the liberal professions and at the level of the self-employed. We see that the demand from consumers is 90% less. Of course, these other independents also had to be fully eligible for the measure under this fourth scenario. Accuracy made, you're right. We must ensure that the self-employed are fully informed of the arrangements we are putting in place to support them. That's why I already contacted the social insurance funds on Friday. I call on all the self-employed to contact their social insurance fund. I have already asked them to put in place a possibility of pre-registration of the bridge right that we are going to vote on today. You will allow me to thank 80 people at INASTI, because it was done on a voluntary basis. They mobilized behind their phones. They are specialists who answer all the questions that the independents ask them. They work from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. and are fully informed of the entire device and even of the one in progress here, in order to provide the information to all the independents. As far as social insurance funds are concerned, the self-employed make contact with them, with INASTI. They will of course find, as we display in all the media, the measures we take, the arrangements at their service on the website info-coronavirus.be. They will find all the information, including this information, on the INASTI website. We work closely with the organisations representing the self-employed: UCM, SNI, UNIZO, Agrofront, professional federations. We are in contact with them to listen to them and to provide them with all the precise and detailed information they need to meet their service objectives. Finally, there is some other information. This text gives us the opportunity to extend these measures if necessary by means of a decree. I also wanted to point out that all the starters – as Mr Lachaert said – are integrated into the scheme, as are those who have already been able to benefit from the bridge right in the past. That's what these measures are all about. We will communicate them as clearly as possible through all of our possibilities and with the actors I mentioned earlier. No independent person should feel abandoned under the dramatic conditions that we are going through for their activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answers and clarifications. Since Tuesday, things have changed and many people are wondering about the practical implementation of the scheme. I understand that you are providing supplementary answers for self-employed workers who would be assisted through exemptions from social security contributions. For hairdressers, you have answered clearly and your answers will be found in the transcript of this session. For booksellers, is that the same answer as for hairdressers? For the health care professions and for the kines, you have extremely precise. Even if these people don't necessarily have seven consecutive days off, you said they could have access to the device. It is positive to hear that no one will be left at the edge of the road and that you intend to help everyone. There is still a question for the booksellers and for the medical professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u54	Mr President, our group had tabled amendments at the committee meeting on Tuesday. I understand that this requires too much work from the services of the Chamber. We will therefore withdraw our amendments. However, I would like to speak on this subject. I understand from several colleagues that there are still many comments, comments and questions. So the bill is not quite final after all. I hope that our comments will also be taken into account. In one of our amendments, I propose that the minimum number of days of interruption should be dropped. The precise arrangements are not yet clear. The minimum number of days is still in black and white in the text. Minister Ducarme has just said that there is an exception, so the number of days of interruption does not have to be consecutive. It is not clear to me, since the text of the bill states in black and white that a minimum of 7 consecutive calendar days is a condition. I hope that this can be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u55	Minister Ducarme will respond shortly. Colleagues, at the Conference of Presidents, we made an agreement with the good will of everyone. The government has withdrawn a bill as it would otherwise be amended. The draft law on the provisional twelfths also agreed that no amendments would be tabled. I insist that we keep that agreement. At the beginning of this afternoon's sitting, you saw how we should vote in the circumstances. If we now also have to vote in writing on amendments, it will take hours. This goes against the spirit of the agreement we made at the Conference. Mrs Samyn, I understand that you say that you have not yet received a satisfactory answer. You're asking Minister Ducarme to take that into account. He'll be answering for the second time in a minute. If you are not satisfied, I suggest that you abstain or vote against the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, in general I would like to ask for amendments not to be tabled. Otherwise, the vote would be far too complex, far too difficult. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u56	Mr President, that is not the point. Of course, we are not going to amend it now. The information hadn't come to us. There's been a communication error somewhere. Of course, we are not going to amend it. I am simply asking whether the comments made in the event of a change can be taken into account. We are certainly not going to amend it, we fully support it, as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u57	Thank you very much for that. May I ask you all to talk more into the micro, because from here it's hard to hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u58	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the minister, but I would also like to ask him for clarification. I have heard a hiatus between the amounts estimated in committee to support this measure – 500 million for two months – and the figures put forward today, which are significantly higher. Can the Minister repeat these figures? How could he make this estimate? Is the $1 billion spent on this measure – we were 1.3 billion if I have heard it – part of the $1 billion spent on the treatment of VOCID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the bill we discussed and adopted on Tuesday 17 March 2020 was quite clear to me. However, because of what you are telling me, you are bringing me back to doubt. We have indeed agreed on Tuesday that the self-employed who are forced to close will be very flexible and that they will be able to apply immediately. For self-employed persons who close on their own initiative because of considerations linked to the coronavirus, for example because they are sick themselves or because they no longer have a turnover or almost no turnover, Article 4 states the following, I quote: "in so far as the interruption lasts at least 7 consecutive calendar days." That's what we decided. This category includes, among other things, the physist or the newspaper shop. You are now giving other examples, which will make the issue more complex. That's not what the law says either. However, we must abide by the text of the bill which we discussed in detail on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u60	I get the impression everyone wants a second round. Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Anseuw have also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u61	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. However, the situation is changing every day. We see this not only through the questions we are asked, but also through the measures taken by the government. On Tuesday, in preparing the work of the committee – as you will recall, ladies and gentlemen – we discussed the seven consecutive days. We understand that, in order to access the bridge right in its entirety, it is necessary to close seven consecutive days – that is very good – and not to be directly affected by the measures that the government has decided. I think of all the examples such as horeca, shops, etc. According to the text we are going to vote for, medical professions, physiotherapists, etc., must therefore close seven days in a row. I would like to ask the government that in the coming weeks, when the special powers come into force, it will let us look at this rule again, given the constant evolution of the situation. Anyway, that's the call I made. We have already discussed this on Tuesday before the committee meeting. We were already seeking to move forward on this aspect. It wasn't possible. All right! Again, I'm not here to argue at all. The situation must be examined on a day-to-day basis. I hope that in the coming weeks it will be possible to decide very quickly. That is why we would like to see another reflection on this condition of the seven consecutive days. In any case, let's work in order. Of which act!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u62	Mr President, Minister, I have a question for clarification. The more the debate progresses here, the more clarification seems to be needed. You have just given the example of physiotherapists who, according to you, can claim the right of bridging as it is now relaxed, provided that they cease all non-urgent paramedical activities. If they continue only the urgent paramedical activities, they will be entitled to the right of bridging, as it would now be made easier. I think that is a good thing, because that is also the spirit of this law, namely that anyone who is de facto forced by the government or by other circumstances to cease his or her activities as self-employed can claim this right of bridging. I therefore think it is important that the method of application is very simple and that payments can be made quickly. I just said the same thing. We discussed this in committee and there was a consensus on it. The application for those persons would be made on the basis of an honorary statement. I think that's an important part. The law itself is important, but its implementation is certainly important, especially in times of crisis such as this. It is at least as important that this request can be implemented quickly and quickly. Can you confirm here that the way in which applications are made, including, for example, physiotherapists who continue only their urgent paramedical activities, can be as simple as possible, with an explanation of honour, as we discussed in committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u63	Mr President, as briefly as possible, in terms of the system, the process for obtaining exemptions or even the bridge right, we have simplified the processes as much as possible so that this can be done almost automatically. Of course, we will not add difficulty to the difficulty. The system must be simple and flexible. These are the instructions given to INASTI and the social insurance funds. I'll read you exactly what I told you earlier so that it's clear to everyone. Scenario 3: In this scenario, the self-employed are fully covered. These are activities of care professions, including dentists, kines, medical pedicures, etc. For these independents, it is also given the ability to simply close the firm. This is the will of many of them. The closing of the office for seven days is sufficient to obtain the benefit of the bridge right, even if they follow up on cases of paramedical emergency or medical emergency during the same week. Is that clear? One example is, of course, the kine's practice, which accommodates those of their patients who need respiratory kine. That's an example I've been asked to add. I think it's clear. Close your office for a week gives you access to the bridge law and this does not prevent you during the same week from dealing with medical or paramedical emergencies. Mr Delizée, the booksellers were struck by the order of the 13th and they are therefore eligible for the right of access. Mr. Scourneau, 1.3 billion monthly, is the potential impact on the budget, given that the calculations have been made on the fact that all the self-employed as the main party would use bridge law. So we're on a monthly basis. This potential budgetary impact concerns only this measure and has nothing to do with Mr Clarinval's statements in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u64	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u65	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1090/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1090/4) The title has been amended by the Commission in the proposal for a law amending the Act of 22 December 2016 establishing a bridge right for self-employed workers and introducing temporary measures in the framework of the VOCID-19 in favour of self-employed workers". The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal to amend the Law of 22 December 2016 introducing a transitional right for self-employed persons and introducing temporary measures under COVID-19 in favour of self-employed persons." The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u66	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u67	Colleagues, given the exceptional circumstances, we will vote in three different rooms. Ladies and gentlemen, given the special situation, we will be voting in three different rooms today. Members whose names begin with letters A to K will vote in the Chamber. The members whose names begin with the letters A to K will vote in the hemisphere. Members whose names begin with the letters L to S are invited to vote in the Jacques Brel Hall. Members whose names begin with the letters L to S are invited to vote in the room Jacques Brel. Members whose names begin with the letters T to Z are invited to vote in the Père Damien room. Members whose names begin with the letters T to Z are invited to vote in the Chamber of Father Damian. At the entrance to each room are the nominative ballot papers. Members are invited for each vote to table their ballot papers in the ballot box and then leave the room. At the entrance of the halls, ballot letters are written by name. Members are asked to put the ballot paper in the ballot box by vote and then to leave the Chamber. Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of voting. Start of the vote. Members can now vote in the various rooms. Members can now vote in the different halls. I learn that the vote has been closed in the various rooms. I understand that the vote was closed in the various halls. Result of the vote. Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 2) Yes 112 Yes No 1 No. Abstentions 14 Abstentions Total 127 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1052/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1052/5) Members who have abstained are invited to indicate the reasons for their abstention. Members who have abstained are invited to make known the reasons for their abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u68	Colleagues, given the exceptional circumstances, we will vote in three different rooms. Ladies and gentlemen, given the special situation, we will be voting in three different rooms today. Members whose names begin with letters A to K will vote in the Chamber. The members whose names begin with the letters A to K will vote in the hemisphere. Members whose names begin with the letters L to S are invited to vote in the Jacques Brel Hall. Members whose names begin with the letters L to S are invited to vote in the room Jacques Brel. Members whose names begin with the letters T to Z are invited to vote in the Père Damien room. Members whose names begin with the letters T to Z are invited to vote in the Chamber of Father Damian. At the entrance to each room are the nominative ballot papers. Members are invited for each vote to table their ballot papers in the ballot box and then leave the room. At the entrance of the halls, ballot letters are written by name. Members are asked to put the ballot paper in the ballot box by vote and then to leave the Chamber. Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of voting. Start of the vote. Members can now vote in the various rooms. Members can now vote in the different halls. I learn that the vote has been closed in the various rooms. I understand that the vote was closed in the various halls. Result of the vote. Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 3) Yes 127 Yes No 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No. Abstentions 0 Abstentions Total 127 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1090/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1090/5) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this publicly so that it can be included in the report. I have still not received any texts on the special powers promised for the next few hours. That is why I have not convened a Conference of Presidents either. I asked the services to look at the possible agenda for next week for each committee. If we get texts of the bill, we will, of course, meet next week. I propose that I send out an agenda in which a plenary session is held for Thursday and in which I propose to you an agenda for the committees. We can communicate about that electronically in the course of the day tomorrow. If necessary, I can convene a Conference of Presidents on Monday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u69	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-19-55-plenair-ip031x.u70	The text of the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure has already been considered. If it's all right with you, I also assume it's urgent. The sitting is closed. The Chamber shall be divided until further notice. The meeting is adjourned. The Chamber adjourned until further convocation.
