ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. At first say that the ninth point is to be discussed in the fifth place, and that the seventeenth is cancelled. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, a distant confession made by the lawmen of the U.S.A.sunists to the chief division of the environment and the politics of the land, the plan of defending the waters against the waters of the river." Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u1	Chief of Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. and Mrs. and Mrs. President, Congressman, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We have known, unfortunately, for the last few years the rivers of the Uumea, which have caused all sorts of mischief, and those which dwell on the banks of the river, and especially the inhabitants of Donostania Martue. Thus, according to our party, the works of Mars are indispensable. The different and complex measures to take are to prevent the river from returning enough canals and overflowing by great elevations. And all this, in order to improve the Hydraulic capacity of the Urume and reduce the danger of the surrounding inhabitants. For this reason, Madame de Orgei, our question is as follows: What is now the present state of defence against the torrents of the waters, passing by Donstian Martutee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u3	Good morning, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. The works which are now running in the Martutee district have been assigned to protect the district of Donostania Marttene against the waters of the Urume. This project was permanently accepted on the 22nd of July 2014, after receiving an expression for the environmental impact. The operation is being taken between the supply-pit of Añarbe and the bridge of Mars, including the passage of the Neighbour, and the place of the bridge itself. These performances started on March 23rd, 2015. 19.002.904, 76 euros' allocation savings, and the execution period of 30 months were established. So, according to what we planned, they'd end up in the last quarter of 2017, but we'll finish a long time before, as I'll tell you later. The interval being running is approximately 850 meters high, and its goal is to keep the current river bed without modifications, its width rising from 0. The final width will be between 50 meters and 50 meters, but today is between 25 and 30 meters, so we'll double it. Moreover, it also leads to change the structures which lay upon the walk, namely, the bridge of Mars, the passage of Pilar, and a tube of 1,000 millimeters to guide the supply of water in Añarbe. Of activities there are also the following: to run the net for the rainwater and the raid for the storms, because the Martuetene district. And the waste pumping station to push the ruins to the colctor on the other bank of the Uumea. At the present day, the expansion to be made on the left bank of the river is entirely executed, and the substitution of the passage in the district of Pilar. If there is a new structure placed there and started on. On the other hand, at the end of 2015, the bridge of Mars was lowered, so as to be able to execute the attributes of the new bridge. Excited was done after the fashion of the savants. In order to pass it, the circulation of double senses was enabled, so that the traffic which bore the bridge of Martute may be diverted. They already have the structure of the bridge in the workshop, and, according to what has been predicted, at the beginning of May, it will be brought to the place of the work to begin with. The new Martten Bridge during the summer...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u5	...will set up for traffic between road and pedestrians. In May, too, the civil work of the flooding and pumping of storms has been foreseen, and even the execution of the roads on the right bank. The works are running much faster than they are anticipated, for they have been enabled to employ more means to execute them. That's why the works are supposed to end at the beginning of 2017. The state of the work is very much advanced, which, besides a considerable improvement of the hydraulic capacity of the Ural River, enabled him not to harm the last currents of the Ural River, and the danger of a neighbour who has three thousand inhabitants will be greatly diminished after the work has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u7	Thank you, Madam Congressmaster, and thank you also, Madame de Orgei, for your explanation. And, by the way, congratulations, because what you brought us here today is really good news. When we often speak of politics, we often talk of a field where there is no such thing as coal, corruption, and credibility; but the reports you bring to us today explain that the affairs of the people may be solved from politics, especially when, as it is the case, there is an association of institutions, and that is to say, it passes from words to actions. To make oppositions which may be opposed to the greatest floods that may happen, and which may guarantee security to its neighbours, is certainly nothing but the employment of a responsible government, which aims at men. Hence, in the presence of all the manners and repeated phrases which we often hear in this Chamber, we may say that even this time the Euskalion has fulfilled its duties, as when the advanced state of works, which have a considerable improvement in the Hydraulic capacity of the River Urumea, has enabled no damage to the last elevation of the Urumea. And we ought all to congratulate ourselves on this, but we especially rejoice that in the fifth act of commitment to the second responsible environmental policy of our modern program, the third point of improving the quality of water, we said that one of our goals was to prevent the floods which might happen for the ordinary elevations, and to prevent the land being suspended under water, and to do the work necessary for regenerations or eussions. Some say that they are made to abstain from filling up the informative programmes; but we also go to fill them with respect to the river Urume. Good for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u8	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Eva Blanco de Angulo EH collect for Eplegu and the head physician of the Polic society, the removal of the DBL revenues." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u9	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Collecting EH believes it is indispensable to develop a powerful and extensive system of social co-operative rights in order to maintain the cohesion of society. Seeing that this is a very serious situation, the Gipudome Foru of Gipuz, who was in the power of EH collect, created a new right in July 2012 to correct it, and to suffer restrictions. To do this, EH gathered a remarkable effort of decision and budget, but EAJ decided to take care of it a month ago.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u10	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u11	That's why we want to ask you if the head physician joins the view of the social armor system to delete the AGI with the decision of the Giant Foru of Gipu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u13	The President, the President, the members of the department, the members of the legislature, good morning. Dear Miss Blanco: To give an answer to the question you're asking me to remove the gym in a partial way, I'm going to pass my rights if I don't want to. In fact, you ask me to give you an opinion on the decisions given by another organization within its jurisdiction. This question would have made sense if I or M.M. had been involved in the decision of a Gypian organization. If the object of this question be to place my figure in a strait, I shall not enter into that dispute. On the other hand, until a little time ago, your party governed the basic social services. Asking the managers, I'll give you the information you've received from them. As you know, the perfilla of people who are benefited by the AGI has little to do with those who get the RGI. For instance, 90% of them are foreigners. He also knows that aid was born in a determined political context that I do not want to qualify, and that the results were not well measured. Perhaps it should have been a transitional benefit that would have covered all residents at the time that the regulatory change left them without access to GIR, but above all those who had not completed the year and who suddenly had to be three years without financial coverage. Their nontransitionality generated distortions, for example, in non-volume flows, but yes certain, such as that Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, which had always gone on par in percentage weight, and yet in the last two years Gipuzkoa almost drew a percentage point in the immigration rate. Second, atypical origins in localities with little previous immigration experience, such as Ordizia, Goierri and Azkoitia. Third, profiles with a very limited margin of employability and with a possible and clear tendency to chronification, and, consequently, certain potential bomb in some municipalities and social services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u14	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u15	Mr. Chief physician, we've been hearing for over a year now that you're going to make a deep reflection on society and social rights. In several kinds of media, you've confirmed that you want to reflect on the system, but at the moment, unfortunately, we've only heard of reductions, such as we've already discussed today. The AGI was established in order to face the reduction of the Socialist Government to DBE, in the number of the restrictions, and in the years of the census. The AGI set up to help all those people who were out of the system for a cut you didn't throw back. You have cut back on a cut, and in the meantime we have heard Mr Anasagasti say that all the changes you want to make with regard to GIR must be made in this Parliament. But it seems that Mr Anasagasti has forgotten that this group has brought him here on more than one occasion and you have not wanted to debate. And in what is the PNV shielded to load the AGI with a pen? They say that they have contrasted it with the third sector; we, too, do not exactly agree that this aid should be eliminated. We have seen it through the concentrations and today, in addition, it appears in the media. You are aware that this is not an equitable measure and that the same rights must be given in all the territories, and we agree, but if you want equity and equal rights in all the territories, do it above, not below, not by cutting. If you want to match rights, end with the cut on the RGI imposed in 2011, because without that cut the AGI would not have been needed. And another of the excuses we're hearing from the PNV to end the AGI is that it produces an effect called. The number of foreigners who have arrived in Gipuzkoa has been reduced, there is no effect called, but you have eliminated an aid to 1,500 families with about 700 minors in charge. Grave is the withdrawal of the AGI, but the argument they use is much more, because it has a clear xenophobic dye. Just like the survey they have had to withdraw from Irekia thanks to our complaint, just as xenophobic. And when Mr. Maroto launched his xenophobic strategy to put citizens against immigrants for going for a handful of votes, you stood against and went out publicly with us and the socialists to denounce his strategy. Today you are acting in the same way as Mr Maroto, you are using your own arguments. You'll explain to us what purpose. What the media today collects about Caritas says: "Every tool that strengthens or helps the development of the social protection system, we value it as something positive. On the contrary, anything that involves setting limits, restrictions or suppressions, we consider it to be something negative." EH Bildu subscribes to these statements and shares them. Do you, Mr. Counselor, share those claims? I think you can answer that. What cannot be done, Mr Toña, is to open your arms publicly and receive it publicly, telling the media, refugees and then turning your back on these people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u17	Thank you. As I said, Mrs. Blanco, in order to prepare the answer to this question, we asked where we ought to answer. That is why I have the certainty that the removal of this scholarship has been negotiated with the social builders of the country, and so many questions have been made. To this we must add that the AGI, as does not occur with the RGI, does not guarantee the means of social and laborious associations, and has brought no improvement in the inadequacy of profitable collectiveities. Besides, Mrs. Blanco, the AGI doesn't disappear. It continues to be maintained for people and families who are collecting it and until they can access the GIR. Finally, in cases such as social protection, we should not promote case offices, Mrs Blanco. Let's look at the moon, not the finger. Let us strengthen the social bases that legitimize social protections, as far as we can, with the budgetary limits that we have. This is the moon. That the term "called effect" has been mentioned, as you have done, does not even reach the little one. Creating problems where there are no problems is a way to get away from real problems. You'll think I've been hard on you. Not hard; only did I wish to speak plainly, without hurting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u18	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Third point in the theme list. "To ask the question, smooth-headed Susana Corcuera, a member of the Socialists of the United States to the president, a lack of explanation of the lack of execution of the budgets of 2015." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr Lehendakari, your Government is entangled in the middle truths and propaganda, and conceals information. Last fall its spokesman confirmed the failures in the 2015 collection forecasts, which were going to force us to accommodate the expenditure, which we all understood as making cuts. The secretary-general of the Basque Socialists, Idoia Mendia, called for a meeting because already in the plenary general policy he was warned of the inability of his Government to address future strategies and express our possibilities of self-government in order to boost quality employment. One day after that request, his finance advisor wrote down what his spokesman had said, saying that the puncture in Bizkaia's collection would hardly imply any non-performance, of 1.5% of the budgets, which he described as "usual". Finally, you promised Mrs Mendia not to reduce the resources in those policies which the Socialists considered essential: education, health, social policies, support for employment and economic activity. In last year's provisional liquidation, budgetary inefficiencies accounted for 6.13% of the budget, four times more than you considered usual. And they have made cuts of EUR 662 million, and mainly in the areas involved in support of employment and activity. No one in his Government has given any political explanation, despite the fact that they have been in the middle of the media for weeks. And that is why we are asking you here in this House, which gave you a mandate in 2015 and which has failed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. President, to answer you, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs Corcuera, the appropriations committed from the budget have reached 96 % and the obligations recognised at 31 December have exceeded 94 %. With the exception of the budget appropriations for the construction of the high-speed train, the budget has reached 96% of the budget. And this information, Mrs. Corcuera, is public. And with these figures you can't talk about "a severe strategy of spending cuts" – that is, as you do. What can be emphasized is that the Government is preserving the programmes corresponding to the Basque model of social protection, which is our priority in trying not to leave anyone behind. Thus, the implementation of the Department of Employment and Social Policy has reached 99%, Education, more than 98% and Health, almost 100%. All programmes, services and aid, almost 100%; therefore, in terms of cuts, 0 cuts in the essential public services in Euskadi. As regards the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness, the amount of credit committed from the initial budget was 93%. The explanation is that the Basque network of science, technology and innovation has been redefined, and aid programmes have also been reorganised, leading some to be completed before 31 December, while others have not, although they have been incorporated in 2016. In addition, all this has been communicated to the actors concerned. The various grant lines envisaged for the promotion of research, innovation or internationalisation have been launched and are being implemented. The implementation of the economic recovery and employment policy is being implemented and results are being achieved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u23	Thank you, President. I regret to say to you, Lehendakari, that you have missed your word, because you have cut into policies and priorities for the future of Basque society. They have cut €662 million, 209 have been for grants that have not been granted and have not invested in productive capital €444 million. You have not managed well, because you can meet your budgetary obligations and prioritise spending without jeopardising the future of Euskadi, but you stop spending EUR 130 million on economic development and competitiveness. They have not cut in health, or education, or in GIR because they have not been able, because they are subjective rights. They have not cut in investments, in projects that were designed last legislature, with the lehendakari Patxi López, although they tried, by the pressure of this House, but have stopped investing, lehendakari, 13 million euros in industrial programs, 50,5 million euros in R & D, 12 million from the Innovation Fund. Are these not priority policies for you? And no excuses, lehendakari. The socialist government, at the worst of the crisis, put Euskadi at the head of Europe's research and innovation, and its cabinet has lost its positions. They do not run, do not prioritize, and it is also that they spend badly, because they maintain programmes that do not attract new entrepreneurs or SMEs, the main sources of job creation and employment in Euskadi, and stop investing EUR 13 million in industrial development. They have not implemented the contract-relevant programme for young people, they have not implemented the training plans for long-term unemployed people that come from construction, they do not implement these policies and they keep uselessly spending on matters that involve duplication with other administrations and even overlaps, because they have refused to review the Basque institutional framework, and you and your Government, so exposed to the spotlights, to the microphones, have fled from them and from this House in order not to give explanations. Last fall, lehendakari, hid the truth and missed his word, and his government already lost the first year of the legislature showing scissors. With these 2015 cuts, Mr Lehendakari, they have shown that they have no answer to the challenges of the future of Euskadi, and the worst we fear is that we can lose the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Corcuera, do you want me to remind you of the Patxi López government? Do you want me to remind you of the deficit capacity used by the López Government with 2.6 billion and 260 million? Do you want me to remind you of the tenfold increase in the public debt of the Basque Government by the López Government? Do you also want me to remind Patxi López of this candidate for lehendakari when he was a candidate on how many beds, schools we were going to close as the Basque Government in the provision of essential public services? Look, rigor, cuts. The Basque Government is strictly managing public accounts. We've exhausted the deficit capacity. It was 0.69, and the limit was 0.7. In other words, we have completed the capacity of spending, in addition to meeting the deficit limit, also of indebtedness, and the rule of spending, deficit – in addition – imposed by you, with the People's Party, in an express reform of the Spanish Constitution. With a view to 2016 a relaxation of the deficit for the autonomous communities is being proposed. Look, we have always defended it and we believe that it is necessary to move forward in policies – precisely – to stimulate the productive economy, and in any case we are awaiting this decision, for example, between you and the People's Party again. We will continue to maintain the rigour of managing public resources, solidarity and guaranteeing essential services to citizens. And as far as companies are concerned, Mrs Corcuera, question what may be Euskadi's future when this government is applying all the programmes to businesses, self-employed, professionals, entrepreneurs, and it is obvious that the programmes are under way according to the subsidy headings approved and according to what the indicators say today, today, in the media, of what is the evolution of the Basque economy and the evolution of the Basque company, Mrs Corcuera, that is to say, that is to lack the rigour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Antonio Damborenea Basterchea Eusgula, a member of the Pogula team, on the supposed regeneration of the President." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, from a time to this part, practically since you took possession, and your Government, have been giving us the mantra of re-centralisation, which is an invention of these nationalist words that give us an understanding of something that will have to be understood as suffering from a cut in competences, more or less. In any democracy, when two administrations have problems, or criteria... or they think differently, that's what the courts are for, to resolve these conflicts of competence. It is even the obligation of the governments, both – in this case – of the Basque Government and of the Government of Spain, that, if they believe that someone has invaded their competences, they go to the courts. We, when we asked the question, the truth is that we have been somewhat obsolete, because the question was whether the lehendakari really believed this mantra that they were giving us, and the solution we have already seen with this attack of forceism that is giving him lately and with the theme of, in the end, annihilating the old regime, but the old regime not of the nineteenth century, but of the eighteenth, with the foral pass and these things, forgetting that also at that time there was a Royal Chancellery of Valladolid, which also solved these questions. In any case, with the data provided by the Government, 244 laws have been passed in the Congress of Deputies in this legislature. The Basque Government, with the data it has given us, has raised only 23 conflicts, of which in more than half it has reached agreement in the bilateral commission between the two governments, that is, it has not resorted to the Constitutional Court. In addition, the Constitutional Court has issued two judgments in which it has given the Basque Government the reason, with which it seems that it is dismantled until all that has been sold to us is that the courts always give the reason to the Government of Spain. Well, that doesn't seem to be the case or it hasn't been the case. Even, finally, the group with which agreements have been reached most often, the government with which agreements have been reached most often in this last parliamentary term in the Government of Spain has been the Basque Government, including the Concert Law, which gives us new powers. So, I don't know if the excuse for asking for a new political status is this, but it seems like an argument, at least, shameful film, and that's why we reiterate our question: is the lehendakari really believed that to ask for a new status it is necessary to make this pantomime?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u28	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Damborenea, you used two terms: invention and mantra. Invention? Look, the adoption of the LOMCE without consensus, its attempt to impose, is it an invention? Is the intensive use of the Royal Decree-Law, an instrument that limits the intervention of the autonomous communities, an invention? Mr Damborenea, I believe that the report of the Basque Government to the CORA plan and its derivatives in Spanish Government laws is significant. We place the denunciation of the re-centralization in the non-compliance with the Statute of Gernika, according to the third of the documents delivered to the Office of Self-Government on 15 September last year. Is the fact that the Basque Government has had to appeal unconstitutionality on 23 occasions, which you have acknowledged, an invention? Two appeals against the Ertzaintza staff summonses. The amount and scope of the scholarships of the Basque educational system is questioned. The replacements and replacements of education teachers and health personnel are questioned. Conflicts have begun against laws passed by this Parliament: doping in sport, savings boxes, health benefits, housing, fracking... The Spanish Government's claim of re-centralisation, Mr Damborenea, is not an invention. It is a fact, a permanent attitude that responds to a deliberate strategy of the Spanish Government throughout the legislature and that we do not denounce only the Basque Government, also governments of other communities, even governments in the hands of the People's Party. Look, we are suffering, as we said in the report to the Basque Parliament, a practical degradation of the capacity of self-government, which means undermining the well-being and opportunities of citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u31	President Señor, strategy, la suya. LOMCE, agreement of the bilateral commission between the two governments, but the Basque government had to maintain the remedy because it did. [[He showed a picture.]] This picture is from this month. Here is the Education Adviser at the Ministry of Education negotiating €40 million for the implementation of basic vocational training, the 3rd and 4th ESO itineraries foreseen in the LOMCE and to receive €40 million. This is this month, and this is an agreement of your Government on LOMCE with the Government of Spain. What is pathetic is to resort, as the Basque Government has done, to the deletion of the word 'Spain' from the cards that put Spain's National Health System. That's creating conflicts where there are no conflicts. Look, we have enough problems in this Community to make up new ones. We still have the same ones as when you came to the government: the same unemployment, no measure, the young people continue to leave and we have demographic prospects after the cuts to the support to the families that you have made who have left us as you have left us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u32	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Damborenea, one day you'll explain to me what unemployment has to do with recentralisation. Besides, is it the same unemployment now as three years ago? Yeah? Do you believe him? Look, there's been agreements. Yes, of course there have been agreements. In most cases, partial. And there have been agreements as a result of a claim of invasion of jurisdiction. And we have resorted to the bilateral commission, of course. But how many have there been no agreements? Why 23 resources? There have been agreements caused by decisions that seriously affect our self-government, agreements framed in Euskadi's competence and achieved after negotiation processes in the bilateral commissions. Yeah, what about the disagreements? However, the reports that the Basque Government submitted to this Parliament on 15 September document the attacks and mutilation of the Basque self-government, Mr Damborenea. They provide evidence of structurally re-centralizing policies of unknown intensity so far. And that is what we say from the Basque Government in those reports to the Basque Parliament. We note that there is a gradual loss of the value of the Statute of Gernika. I insist, we also place the re-centralisation in the non-compliance with the Statute of Gernika passing the years as they go. This represents an illegitimate mutation in the quasi-constitutional nature of our self-government, and there is a reluctance on the part of the State to maintain a bilateral and agreed relationship, which would result, for example, from the updating of that concept of foral passage. And it's not foral to resort to a mantra, it's to resort to historical rights, Mr. Damborenea. An effective system of guarantees for Basque self-government is not accepted, and this is what we denounce and this is what we claim, a guarantee of compliance with the updated Basque self-government as decided by Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Ask the question, Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members made to the president about the tax-zogs of the football team." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u35	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen, counselors. Mr Lehendakari, recently, as a result of the Panamanian paper scandal, the Employment Advisor rightly pointed out that any natural or legal person who uses any tax engineering strategy to defraud is stealing from us all. And, indeed, we agree with this statement of the counselor: whoever cheats robs us all, who evades or evades taxes robs us all, who keeps money in tax havens robs us all, who pays in B robs us all. Therefore, these behaviors must be strongly denounced, and you, Mr Lehendakari, also have to denounce some of these behaviors, because there are many ways of defrauding and stealing people. Recently, a San Sebastián court has admitted to the proceedings a complaint filed against several senior officials of the Gipuzkoa Foral Chamber, starting with its deputy general, the Basque Nationalist Party, for the alleged crimes of falsification and prevarication for the forgiveness of at least 6.4 million euros to the Royal Society. The pardon was admitted by the Royal Society itself after it was detected by the Basque Court of Public Accounts and the former Director of Finance of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council. Paying in B is defrauding, avoiding taxes is defrauding, keeping money in tax havens is defrauding, is stealing citizens. But I ask you another question that is obviously related to these issues: in your opinion, charging tax debts to a football team is stealing citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Maniro. You see, the three forums are strictly playing against the prosecutor, not only the prosecutor, but also the prosecutor. There are two sparrows, Mr. Maneiro: The tax rate and the tax-tribution of the tax and the tax-tribution of the last three forts with the General Ogal Government of the State, and with Navarre, and with the Eucharisty of the Basques, have been deeply absorbed in a special commission for co-workerizing the citizens who are taxed in our economic domain. You know, and you know, three times as well as three plans have been introduced and accepted at the Confederation Committee, and this people, all the cares, are doing their jobs. I mean, we've improved in accordance with the Chamber's recommendation, and there's always things to improve, and we're always here to learn, all of our popular associations. And that's what we're doing in all the domains of taxes: to avoid fraud, and, on the other hand, to study well when this fraud is committed, to watch and prevent it from being re-entered. And in this you have seen that there are three sorts of actions: On the one hand, the reviews have been added, and in the second place, in order to be sure, by the help of the three ruined forums (on the one hand, on the other hand, on the side of the entrance), the third, by investigation, by the General Administration of the State, and also by the general international policy; and that is what has brought the Chamber to this chamber, the committee against the fraud, the last three plans, and the last one will see that you will be able to discuss it for the next few days.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u39	Thank you, President. Mr. Counselor, are you kidding me about the question I asked not even you, but Mr. Lehendakari? I have asked you directly whether you consider condoning tax debts to a football team is stealing citizens or not. And we think so. That is specifically what we are talking about. And, indeed, that is what appears to have happened. And those responsible are certain leaders of your own political party, Mr Urkullu. This is the reality of the facts: to allow 30 million euros of VAT and four of VAT sanctions to be prescribed is to defraud and to rob citizens, and that seems to be what happened in the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council. That's why there's a lawsuit and that's why she's been admitted to court. A tax debt was forgiven to a football team. We are not talking about the fight against tax fraud, nor about the joint plan, nor about anything like it. We are talking about that some leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, supposedly – and it seems that it will soon be demonstrated, was actually admitted at the time – condemned tax debts to a football team for 6.4 million euros, as well as allowing to prescribe millions of euros of VAT and IRPF. And this has to be reported. It is, of course, right to denounce certain leaders for the roles of Panama, of course, we share it, but we must also denounce these behaviors that leaders of their own political party have carried out in recent years, and that is what we want to denounce. When there is less public resources, when there is more fraud, obviously the Basque Government has less money and, therefore, there is less welfare state and the injured are citizens. The question is clear and I repeat it, Mr Lehendakari: do you consider that condoning tax debts is stealing citizens? We think so. But you and you, please answer, because it's a very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maniro, first of all, tell us that the two concepts are different, the tax club and the tax manual. The tax club cannot be directed by you because you said wrongly that you'd never forgive me, ever. Now, if you know the general tax law and the law of each country, a fine, a fine may be forgiven in a financial context of a state, and the legislation says so in the United States and in the three historical areas. Second thing. Third: If you're looking into the City Court report, I've examined the EBAB, it doesn't say that anyone has a responsibility. Do you know how long that report is? About five years ago. That's all over the place. There's this report in the state attorney's office. What happened? Nothing. There's nothing about all the things you've been talking about, and he's seen the Attorney General of the State. And the last thing you've brought is that a citizen has made a complaint about the responsible for the Fordalund Foru. You'll see, you'll see. You believe in the principle of innocence, let's wait. But we've got something important for the moment, and it's that there's nothing about all the things you said about the City Court that's been looking into. No responsibility. In the report, the prosecutor didn't say anything. That's important. And to conclude, as to the Opinion of Gipus, and the Opinions given by the Mighty Ones, I turn to this place the tax collectors whom You have spoken. All the mentions were made yesterday, and today it's in the press that the Giant Fords of Gipuz are on the line. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u42	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Your time is up. Before we proceed, I would like to inform you that at twelve o'clock we shall have a pause for two minutes, partly because of the earthquake in this week for all those who have died of Ecuador, and another for all those who have died in the Mediterranean, and who have died this week. Let's just keep going. Number of points in theme list: "Interrogate, by Daniel Maectu Perez EH Collectors to the President, the Government of the Spanish State in relation to the law of "facking." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. Well, we already know what the Spanish Government decided in the 8th of this month: He declared that this parliament would place a resource against a received law in the Constitutional Court; in this case, to prevent such a prosecution against the majority of laws. And we believe, first, that it is necessary to put a context before us, because there is no ordinary law for us, first, by a legislator of the people, to have arrived at this legislature, because it was a legal proposition arrived with the signature of 1030,000; and then, by the majority, because it was a law derived from this legislature. In those days, but we have to be very clear that the threat to us was not in Madrid. When the people brought this law here, they didn't do it because Madrid had accepted some permission or else because he was planning to make the hydraulic break here. The threat, in this case, was here in the Esquimia Esquillia Erdi, and had a name and surname: Euscal Organization of energy and the SHESA company that is dependent on him, Sociedad de Hidrocarbios de Euskadi. That was the threat, the most serious threat at the time. And especially SHESA, which was in the hands of the company, there were two permissions: The permit known as the swallow or the Great swallow and the Angosto permission. I am now. Now the threat is in Madrid, because the government of the State has decided that law, in order to avoid the practice of the Hydraulic rupture, this law in the Estal Autonomia Er memberia, to resurrect in the Constitutional Court. We haven't had the chance to read this resource so far, but we can sense that it's also a suspense, a suspense of the law. Hence it is again from Madrid that a decision is made against the legislative and the majority of this people. And in this case, for us too, for the government, for the Dreams, and the P.N.V. And I will say why this resource is a decision made for your benefit in this case. First, because, to conclude with the threat of the hydraulic rupture, you must make one decision in the Basque Autonomia Er member, and not follow the law, but at the present moment in the hands of a public company, to cancel the rights which are in the hands of a public firm at 100%, the permissions I have mentioned, the licenses of a hydraulic rupture, and in the course of examination, if this license goes on for digging, and if it goes on in the course of progress, it can be easily executed here and there in the hands of the Eucharistia. But we'd like to know, if that's not the case, if you say it wasn't for PNV or for the government, and as Mrs. Tapia said, if that decision taken by the government of the state is an emergency against the autogoberine, how you defended that self-engerganity in this case, how many times the FABEGING has joined in this matter, what's the arguments used to defend that law, what report has been, and whether there's been more than an assembly, in these seven months. We must also remember that it was serious, and that no one has denied this tribe what a member of the Popula Party said, the Government has called Madrid, but that he has called it to tell us how to resurrect this law. This tribe said by a member of the Popula Party, and no one has denied it. In any case, the question we have at this moment is very clear: How will you keep the law? How will the government comply with the law? If it is an attack against the Auto-smiths, what step will it take to execute this law? And I say, not to fill it up, because in this case the government itself must keep it, as I have said, because the licenses which foresee the hydraulic rupture are in the hands of a public corporation. Eta esan dut lehen, Tapia andreak errekurtso hau balorazerako orduan, is an absolute interference against the Basque self-government. And we believe that in this case we should not look at Madrid, we should not try to focus on Madrid and in an interference against the Basque self-government, we should look at Gasteiz and we should look at the Basque Energy Agency and we should look at the Basque Hydrocarbon Society, because the threat of fracking in the Basque Autonomous Community is called SHESA and it is called the Enara and Angosto permits. I will remind you of the question asked by the Euskal Herria Bildu group at the moment that the law was passed by this House, and we asked the Basque Government, in particular the Council for Industry and Energy Policy, whether the department was continuing with its intention of exploring or exploiting hydrocarbons through the fracking technique in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. And the answer was: "Knowing our own energy and mineral resources is a duty and a non-delegable responsibility of the Basque Government, in particular, and of any government, in general, with a view to establishing an energy and supply guarantee strategy." Therefore, we asked him if they were going to follow the hydraulic fracture plans and tell us that yes, on the basis that they believe it is necessary – they say – to know the energy resources. I don't know if that's an indelible duty of a government. What I am clear is that a government's duty must be to fulfil what a parliament tells it and, in this case, a parliament and thousands of signatures of citizens who brought a bill to that parliament. That should be the first duty, and in this case and with fracking you make foral pass, that tool that this week has taken the lehendakari out of the trunk of memories, the foral pass, but in this case you do not make foral pass to a standard emanating from the Courts of Castile, as it was previously done, make foral pass to a standard emanating from the Parliament of three historical territories (Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa); it is a new mechanism of foral pass that you put into operation with the theme of hydraulic fracture. You are making out foral pass; while you continue with the hydraulic fracture permits, with a law passed in this Parliament, with a very clear mandate for citizens to forget and forget about the hydraulic fracture, you, following with those permissions, are making out foral pass to Basque citizenship and this Parliament. So, we believe in this case that it's very easy to defend auto-gravity, to defend our jurisdictions. The law which was adopted in this legislature was very clear, and we all know very clearly what the spirit of this law was, and why a law was introduced into the Chamber by a hundred and a thousand citizens: to destroy the fracing, to leave the fracing, to separate the study of unusual fossil fuels, and the exploitation. The moment is clearly to tell the people what we're going to do with the hydraulic break. Because the voting in Madrid isn't good for the bane, because the Jest Party in the South voted for the ban, and the rights in the Basque Autonomy are in the hands of a public company. There are no other threats here about the fracing, there are no private projects to make, it's public, these privileges are public. We believe, therefore, that the present is the time to inform the people of the designs of this government in the case of the hydraulic rupture.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mazezu, I should like to give you some detail before I begin my speech: you have mentioned the foregone process as if it were a sudden invention of the President, but in this very law and in that very parliament, which for the first time, according to the data which I have been doing, had used this expression of Heraclitus and this historical institution, and had been mentioned by him in the poncie about the doubles, Laura had been the Minista, who knows what purpose, but who was the one who spoke of this and that institution? Well, you plan on the legal law of the franchise, and first of all you yourself have made it clear to me that it's right and that this legal rule of ours, this legal rule of the fracking, is not at all simple and easy. On the contrary, it's complicated, and for the last three years it's also complicated from 2013. If it was already complicated, it's been more complicated and complicated in the last three years. And I think it's a good idea to discuss what any public organization can do about the fracking and the fracing, to explain beforehand that legal square, in spite of everything else, this institution, the Eusk0 or the other public institutions, would have to play on that legal frame. And this legal frame, as I have said, is not at all simple, complicated, and, as I shall tell you later, has yet appeared to the Juridic frame of light, which has come from here and there. Well, the origin of the legal regulations on the fracing could be established in the year 2013, no doubt. 2013. three autonomy members, during the year, give as many laws as forbid the fracing from top to bottom, and establish an absolute and unconditional prohibition about the fracting. These [men] of Autonomy [are] the singers, Errisha, and Navarre. During the year of the year, in the year 2013, we have said that in April, Erroxa in June and Nafarroak in October, and that every one gives his law, as we have said, every one forbids the fruit of his territory from above. Against this, the central Government has two kinds of reaction: On the one hand, because he realizes that it was possible at that moment to forbid the fracing of the autonomical laws which I have mentioned, he sets up a new fundamental rule, and he makes a change in the law on the Hydrocarburic Sector, not by chance, in October 2013, that it is possible for the use of the Spanish technique, as well as legal. Well, if we can distinguish the opposition between the laws given by a fundamental legislation and a autonomical member of the autonomical laws, it is immediately what it does, by taking these three autonomical laws and introducing them before the Constitution, as a declaration of inconsecrational reality. A few months hence Catalonia gives another law, as well as a regulation on this subject. But as soon as the Parliament of Catalonia gives its law, the State had already given its fundamental law, that it is possible to use the technique of franchise after entering into force by a fundamental rule. Catalonia realizes that it is not the right way of resisting a fundamental law, and that it will be carried before the Constitutional Court and declared as incestuous, and therefore introduces another way or another legal technique. What Catalonia says is, "Well, prohibition is, we'll establish, but not absolute prohibition, not absolute and unconditional prohibition. It will be denied, but limited and conditioned, under the conditions of concrete and precise conditions, under the conditions which appear in the law itself." That's what the central government reacts to, too. The question is, the answer of the Constitution courts has been different in the one case and the other in the other; In the case of the three original autonomy laws, the Constitutional Court gives almost immediately decisions that a member of the autonomy can't forbid the technique of the franchise in a purely and unconditioned manner. And so he sets them up, and he considers them as inconsecrated by these three laws, all three. In the case of Catalonia, the law of Catalonia is also opposed, taken before the Constitution Court, and the Constitution suspends first and then the rule, but afterwards, because the lawyers of Catalonia insist upon it, it restores this suspense and receives it, and hence this law, the law of Catalonia, is in force. What is the argument used by the Constitutional Court to act otherwise in that case? It is evident, indeed, that there is no absolute and conditioned prohibition in this case, but that, by the execution of the jurisdiction of the autonomy community, a fracching is not prohibited in absolute and unconditional manner, but only in a very limited and conditioned manner, and that it is different. It is not the same to ban one thing from top to bottom, or to think it permitted, but to condition it. For this reason the law of Catalonia leaves it to continue in force. The law which was tested in the year 2015 goes along the line of Katalunia's bet, in the same way as Catalonia did by his law. Further, it is evident that in the text also certain phrases are taken from it, because they are identical. We are here inspired in the law of Catalonia to make a similar rule, and here other things enter, but the way is the same. Klaro, the central Government, as well as the Catalan case, has proposed a resource for us too. In the meantime, we have had nine months to be able to make an agreement through a negotiation, but the central Government has not wished to make an agreement, because it is clear from the view of the central Government that this legislature is to be entirely compatible with the law which has been tested in the 30th of June 2015. This is the plan which the central Government defends, and therefore wishes to carry the same argument before the Constitution Court, in order that the Constitution may do the same with the law which we have here tested. What happened since then? Two more data has occurred. Since there has been no agreement, the central government has decided to plan its resource, but we are not yet acquainted with the circumstances of the resource. We don't know what kind of articles he'll claim for suspense, we don't know what reasons he'll use. And in the meantime, there seems to be an alternative majority in the Main Courts, and in the course of the last month they have decided that the Government must properly change the law in order to prohibit the fracing in the State. So we've got a whole new piece of data that can change the legal situation from top to bottom. In a week's time, if the Constitution court decides that the law which this legislature has approved is suspended, the legal situation will be suspended for a week. And if the majors of Congress are really changing, even legislation will be changed in a year, so we have to act there, that's the frame and we have to act on it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u47	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I'm beginning to explain myself: I didn't say that the President has now pulled out this foregone apparatus, we've talked so much about this subject, and the President has reflected on other things this week, as if he were a tool for protecting our self-portrait. What I wanted is that I didn't say very well, what I wanted is that in this case you've made the forepassion of the fracing account, but not a rule derived from Madrid, but a rule approved by this Chamber. Because it's the biggest ingredient of the pasta, if I'm not mistaken, "It's settled, but it doesn't happen," and in this case, there's a law that's accepted here, but the Euskion won't do that. Because this isn't a legal discussion, Mr. Erkoa, although you've been trying to read a legal reading at nine o'clock in your ten minutes, no. The first question to be here is political, then we'll go to legal discussions, but it's political, if you like, because it's possible to stop in a hydraulic rupture, fracking, Escan Autonomy in Er memberia, because it can't be debated in your hands, if two licenses in the hands of a public firm are abandoned (The Great and Angosto). It's true there's some agreements with some U.S. companies, but the engine, the promoter, it's the public, it's Eusk0. It is, therefore, very easy to fulfil the wishes of the people and the wishes of the Chamber, and to do so we ought not to enter into a legal discussion with the State, though I should like to know in what terms this dispute has been made with the State, if it be done. We know that there was an assembly, and we want to know, but I'd like to see if there were any other members. We assume that there hasn't been any other assemblies, the Eukon-Modal wasn't legally defended, even politically, because this law isn't interested in him, because his plans are going from the other way, and he's making a fracing. And that's why I said it's time for the people to speak openly in the first round. And if it's possible, he's gonna try to exploit us later on. Do you still continue to know how it is that the economic situation is around the hydrokarbuboi, when you know that a majority of this people doesn't want to make a fracling, knowing that a political majority doesn't want to make a fracling? Do you continue with these plans? Here's the report I've got from the Angosto authorization report. It's easy to see what's in the course of the examination here, not because we've joined the discussions with Mrs. Tapia in the country, that it's not yet done here, it's not true that you're on the side of the fracking.... It is not, therefore, possible or just to say, that a message should be delivered to us, that it is an attack against auto-bernation that Madrid does, when he is in our hands, in the hands of you, when he is in the hands of us, that the performance of him is in this case what this law says, and on the other hand he goes on with the fracing. It's not fair for us and it's not fair to tell Madrid that you're on behalf of the ban and that you're trying to make a fracing here. Are you on the side of the Jeltza Party of the Euric Party, on your side? I know you're sitting there as a member of the government, but when your party votes for the ban, are you in favor of that? Do you share that vote? Now, if that's the case, tomorrow it's out of your hands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Mazetu, I'm surprised that you can say that this is not a legal or legal matter, and I'm surprised to hear you read the same interpenetration, because the whole thing is composed of legal judgments. The first mention is, that the Institutions of the Central Government are referred to as a means against the Law by which it is judged. And from that point on, everything is legal argument, everything is legal. So I'm surprised that your entire written interpelation should not be a legal subject. I don't understand how you can say one thing and then do another thing completely different in your practice. And I can't allow you to doubt that this government has defended the rights of Euskal Autonomy in its assemblies with the government. I can't allow you to do that because I gave you the information about it here, when the Chamber asked for it, it was clearly given. And in the defense of your jurisdictions you will stand in front of me, but you will not win me; you may be right in front of you, what an engagement you have, but you will not win me. And I am here convinced that our mission is to defend our jurisdiction before the central government, to leave it in the hands of our institutions to use or take it against us. That's what I'm telling you, and I can't let you doubt it for that. Let me tell you something else. it was the principal argument of our central government that I should ask you to be careful in the debates, and that they themselves said that this was a fraud in the content of this law. Why? There is, therefore, an effect which the Constitution has assumed to be the opposite of the Constitution, without the absolute and unlimited prohibition. And here, if we assert this when we have a debate on this legislature, that is to say, if we openly assert the thesis of the state's attorney, the State attorney reads the facts here, and then, as an argument, uses them in front of the Constitution Court. And if those who have accepted the law say, "Yes, in this law we have established an absolute and unconditional prohibition," here is what you have said, for I have read here that this law forbids de facto. Well, that's a very legal error, as you know, because a law does nothing of de facto, a law de facto de facto must do what it ought to do, never. But if the Constitution Courts are an efficient consequence, which is considered incontestable by the Federal Court, we are here to give an argument to the State attorney in order to form his appeal with great calm and force. Every one here knows what sort of terms he makes when he makes his speeches, but I, in some measure, if we really are interested in this trial or trial of the Constitution, that we can really defend our jurisdiction and defend ourselves with a minimum of guarantee, I should require, in some measure, to take precautions with those we speak publicly of in this Chamber. Hence the action of the Government, as it cannot be otherwise, is to be placed in the law, and the law, first and then in this member of the Autonomy, marks the established laws of this legislature. But not only he: this law is not suspended from heaven, but is placed in a legal context, and must be interpreted and applied according to this context. And besides, in a week or a month or a month's time, when the Constitution decides on his suspense, perhaps in a week the law is suspended. So these factors are legal, and they condition the operations of the government and all the other public institutions, whether we like them or not. So what I can say is, that every moment's work will be done within the law, first of all, in the case of the law confirmed by this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Time is up. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interfection, which is a law approved of by the Eustalia Rohalania Sozia Sozialists to the President of the United States, in order to tear off hydrocarbarian non-inventions, and to protect the environment in the hydraululic orphacking, and to inform the Minister of the Council of Government on the application of the petitions made against the President of this law." Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u51	Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors. A very long title, but the subject, the same as the previous one; written otherwise, but the concern is the same. It is true that I am starting with some advantage, because I am the second Member who raises this issue in this very plenary, and I can therefore use Mr Erkoreka's explanations to try to complete my speech, even to try to see if you get a little wetter. You were telling us about the defence of competences; I do not want to question it. I read the answers that Mrs Tapia normally sends us on this subject, and in the last, in writing, she put to us everything you explained to Mr Maeztu in the first speech. And I must not question that, since, if not, it would be a very irresponsible government, if it were to lie to us in the Basque House. It is true that you are talking about the fact that this government always acts within the law – it would be missing more – but the parliamentary groups that we managed to carry out the ILP that was brought to Parliament also want to act within the law, because we knew what had happened with laws that had been passed in other autonomous communities, and we always wondered that we could not pass a law that held a day to be laid down at two weeks and, indeed, fracking covers its widths in the Basque Country and in surrounding areas, as is the case with Burgos. And that is why we work hard on the legal aspects of the issue. We worked with Catalan law, and we knew what fringes that law had and why Spain could try to bring it down as well. We were even lucky to be able to talk to someone from Mr. Rajoy's Ministry of Government who would tell us how we could make this ILP legal. So, I think we did everything. We worked the laws, we were able to work with lawyers, even with people who worked in the ministry; therefore, we also wanted to work within the law. The law comes out, with all the impediments of the PNV, each and every one of the impediments that the Government and the government party put on the wheels, and an attempt was made to adopt a moratorium that we understood was not complete. And today we are faced with a situation that we were faced with from the beginning. We understood that, of course, Mr Rajoy's Government was going to try to appeal the law and bring it to the Constitutional, because, although the arguments are legal, the debate is also ideological. So, I share with Mr Maeztu that not everything is legal on the subject of fracking. It's legal when you want to do it in law form, but it's ideological, because political parties have different ideology in how to carry out energy. Being nuclear or antinuclear is also ideological; in fact, in our House we have seen it many times with Garoña. And the issue of fracking, too: the People's Party has a way of understanding the energy that they defend and that we do not share; therefore, we believe that this is also part of the political ideology, and hence the concern that comes to us with this resource. Starting from the fact that we understand that the Basque Nationalist Party, in the government, wants everything to be legal, that it wants to carry out this law from the law – to the answers I refer myself to – the question we have is: if this law ends up being laid down by the Constitutional Court, will the Basque Government defend the will of this House? Or are you going to keep trying to get the fracking developed in Euskadi? That, in the end, that's the texture we're in today. We know that the law was passed here and that Madrid has brought recourse to the Constitution, and now that law can be annulled, but that is the concern, because, as Mr. Maeztu said, once the law has been passed, it can defend it or not – of course, because it is enforced – but if the law does not exist, will Mr. Urkullu's Basque Government continue to put in place procedures to make fracking a reality? Because that's what worries us, because once the law was passed you still wanted to put money into the budget of the Autonomous Community to continue developing fracking. That's the problem. What we are concerned about parliamentary groups and what we would ask of them today, although it is not a proposal for a law or a law, is that, please, even if the Constitutional Court undermines this law, they maintain the will that this House has said, and that, in fact, even if there is no need for a rule, the Government is carrying out activities so that it does not develop further. That is the concern of this interpellation and of the previous interpellation. We already know how far our legal tools can go today. And then, something that seems to me strong, of which Mr Erkoreka has not made any comment, which I also had in my speech, is what Mrs López de Ocariz said that, in fact, the Basque Government very often called the Government of Spain so that, in fact, this law would be declared unconstitutional. I want to believe that no, but it is also true that no one from the Basque Nationalist Party and no one from the Government came out to deny these claims, and he will understand that on a subject that cost us more than four years to come forward, on which I believe that it has been worked by all political groups, even the group that did not support him, the concern is there. And then, that's the thing. I just don't think we have to insist on what it was like, what it's forbidden, what it's not prohibited. What will Mr Urkullu's government do if this law is finally banned by the Constitutional Court: will it continue to try to explore and investigate and will it continue to give money to a public enterprise in the public coffers for this technique to continue? Because I recognize and recognize Mrs Tapia –"And by ceasing what is caesar" – that when this resource comes out, it is the first one that says "Vulneration of competences, the Government of Spain is getting involved in something that we can work on", because, indeed, the Basque law speaks of water, environment and soil, and that is the competence of the Autonomous Community, recognized in the Statute of Autonomy. I recognize that, but we are too used to it that in the matter of fracking everything is left in words, and you, Mr Erkoreka, at the end of Mr Maeztu's last speech, have said "We are equally out of law in a month's time and will therefore condition the government's policy on fracking. " What do you mean by 'condition': that they will move forward with what they did before the law was in place? Will they continue to put public money in order to investigate whether there is, in fact, gas or no gas? Will they try to explore? Will they try to explode? Because that's what worries Basque citizens who were radically against fracking. That's it. What will it condition? Of course, there will be a rule, which we have today and which we do not have tomorrow, but the Basque Government will have to position itself politically on what kind of energy it wants to carry out, on what it wants to invest public money at a time when, in fact, the public coffers are as they are and what it intends to do. Or will you take advantage of this unconstitutionality resource to continue doing what you have always wanted to do? Because I think the problem with fracking is that this government never spoke clearly. I was saying one thing and the opposite, I was putting it on an election program but then I wasn't doing it, and we still have to hear some public representatives a few weeks ago, a few weeks ago in a debate at ETB, saying that, in fact, Mr Urkullu has fulfilled his election program because he has fought fracking, when we all know that, in fact, that's not the case. So, all I would like is for you to clarify, after the more technical and more legal intervention you have had with Mr Maeztu, I would like you to clarify the more political part. What does the PNV intend to do if the Constitutional Court ends up suspending the law that this House passed, which came from a popular legislative initiative, which passed the majority of the House, was even approved by the People's Party, which governs Spain, and in which, of course, we tried to unite all the fringes so that it was legally. That is what we would like to know: is the Basque Nationalist Party going to continue to put public money into developing something that Basque citizens do not want? Because this, as we were talking about yesterday, as has been said in other parliamentary questions throughout the morning, is also self-government. It is also self-government, it is also part of the tool that we have equipped ourselves to see what kind of policies we want to do within our competences. And to my intervention I hope not to receive only legal answers, which I already know, that I have been working on the Fracking Law for six years; I know the law of La Rioja, the Catalan law, is that we have studied everything. So, I want to know the political part. Are you going to defend Euskadi's will with regard to fracking or are you going to take advantage, once again, of what Madrid does to end up doing what you think it is? Not to mention that Euskadi is the only autonomous community that has intended to exploit fracking with full public money, in which there is no private company that risks a hard one. Therefore, SHESA, Mrs Tapia, we know where 100% of the money comes from to exploit fracking. And I repeat, once this law was passed, you put budget items in order to keep this going, and, if it wasn't for the agreement with the Socialist Party, the PNV would have put money back into something that this House had already told you that Euskadi doesn't want. What, then, do you intend to do with this subject?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u52	Thank you, Miss Rojo. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Rojo, indeed, the fact that two successive interpellations are being held gives advantage to those who intervene in the second place insofar as there is a certain part of the non-irrelevant debate, I believe, but substantial, which has already been cleared up in the first, and therefore this allows us all to save ourselves some considerations, some reflections that we have already formulated in the first interpellation, and we are going to go further in the field of debate. I believe that I have made an explicit recognition of the good legal work that the House did when it faced the regulation of this aspect. I was struck by the subtlety with which the title of Law 6/2015 of 30 June itself referred to the additional conditions of environmental protection. The laws appealed and declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court did not repair in lies and spoke openly and explicitly of the prohibition of the technique of hydraulic fracture. I think I remember that the very initiative that was registered in the House, here, was expressed in identical terms. We were talking about an absolute and unconditional ban that at that time was beginning to know that it was called to be unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. I have therefore acknowledged, indeed, the technical quality of the work that has been carried out in this House in relation to this matter. I, of course, admit that this is indeed a debate that has multiple dimensions. It has an undeniable ideological dimension, it has an economic dimension that no one can question and it has a legal dimension that I believe is a priority at this time, in the sense that I have pointed out before: the question of the hydraulic fracture is regulated through a complex system, which since 2013 has seen its complexity widened and which, moreover, with regard to this Autonomous Community, from the moment when the appeal is lodged by the central government, but we still do not know exactly what its scope and content is, we do not know a decisive thing, whether it is going to invoke 161.2 of the Constitution for the purposes of its suspension or not. We do not know, and this is decisive, because it can determine that the law will end within a week suspended in its entirety, or partially, or not. You tell me, "But this is irrelevant," "But how do you tell me this." Yes, this is not legally irrelevant, because, whether we want it or not, the whole of the public authorities in the context of the Autonomous Community will have to develop our activity within the framework laid down by law; firstly, of what this law provides, of what the law approved by the House establishes, and, secondly, of the rest of the legal system. So, you then tell me, "No, the debate is ideological." Good, but it also has a legal aspect that we cannot ignore now. Tomorrow or next year we can find a completely different legal framework, and that is not irrelevant, it is not exactly indifferent. Also in his inquiry the legal considerations, at least in the written text, are important, and I, in short, believe that this has to be necessarily so. We cannot ignore the legal factor in this debate. You tell me: "But if the law is finally declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, what are you going to do?". Well, let me first resist putting myself on that assumption. Finally, the Government will do everything in its power to ensure that the ruling finally handed down by the Constitutional Court in this matter validates in all its terms the law approved by the Chamber. Whether or not it is in accordance with its content, whoever is committed to the competence of the Autonomous Community must affirm the possibility of its institutions, the institutions of the Autonomous Community, to adopt a law with that content or with the contrary, but recognize its capacity and competence. I therefore hope that this sentence will not occur, and when I have made some call for caution in the formulation of expressions, in the use of arguments, it was in that line. Because there are statements, there are debates, which can facilitate legal defence before the Constitutional Court of the law adopted by the House, and there are also statements that can make it difficult, and I assure you that the State's Legal Counsel's follow-up of the official proceedings of the Basque institutions in determining the scope and content of the laws is important. Allow me, therefore, first of all to resist putting myself on the assumption that the Constitutional Court declares the law approved by the Chamber of Additional Environmental Protection Measures to be contrary to the Constitution. He told us that no one responded to Mrs López de Ocariz's insinuations. I recall a question that was put to the Government concerning precisely those statements, which I answered (justly, moreover, on the dates on which the Bilateral Cooperation Commission was meeting) here, from this very rostrum. And I realized that the first formal and valid meeting, therefore, that the Basque Government had had with the central Government to address that issue was held in those days. This occurred around November 12, 2015. I said it myself, and I said that it was not at all our approach, that in the official representation of the Basque Government in the Bilateral Cooperation Commission the position we are going to maintain is going to be that of defending beyond the competence of Parliament, of the autonomous institutions, to pass that law. This, I said. In short, I do not know any more about it, but the official relationship of this Government with the Central Executive was articulated through this way, and in that way I can assure you that neither I, who was not personally, but none of the collaborators who are part of my team and who regularly participated in the Bilateral Cooperation Commission, made such an approach, urging no one to resort to any autonomous law at all. This, I can absolutely deny as far as official channels of communication are concerned. But I have already said it, do not say that nobody spoke in this line, because in this very House, in this very rostrum, I said it on that date. Well, you tell me, "Well, what if the law is suspended? Could the law be suspended by the Constitutional Court in whole or in part?". There's a possibility, this can't be denied. But what the Government is prepared to do, of course – and will not have another approach – is not only to approve the mandates of this Parliament translated into a legal standard, but also all kinds of resolutions, all kinds of proposals adopted in the form of resolutions that urge the Government to take some decisions or others, of course. Of course I do. But it is not irrelevant what will happen with the law in the context of the unconstitutionality appeal brought by the central Government. Let us hope that the exact scope and content of the appeal will be established, because at the moment we do not know exactly what the precepts are and what allegations and arguments the central Government wants to use to challenge the provision are not even, I insist, if the President of the Government recognized by the Constitution is to invoke the suspensive power. And it's not irrelevant. In any case, the Government's will is to continue to respect the legal framework in this area, to develop strictly always within the legality, a legality that is marked in the first place by this law, by Law 6/2015 of 30 June, and in the second place by the rest of the legal system, because this law, as Mr Maeztu said, does not hang from the clouds, is inserted in a legal framework within which it has to be interpreted and applied. This is so, as any lawyer knows. Therefore, the attitude of the Government will not only be to respect the law, which at every moment results because, I insist, I have also made reference to a will that seems to emerge in the Congress of Deputies alternative to the current regime. A resolution has already been adopted by the Committee on Industry, which has also been supported by the Basque Parliamentary Group – as Mr Maeztu has pointed out – a resolution which points to a legislative change in this area. I don't know if in this legislature or the next one, this I don't know anymore, but this alternative majority is already emerging, it's already taking shape and it's already starting to set positions. So, to point out from now on what can happen in relation to this matter when, firstly, we do not know exactly what will be the appeal already brought by the Government in relation to the law adopted by this House and neither do we know how the basic legislation of the State will evolve in a parliamentary context in which the majority have changed and the already explicit will is to promote a modification of that basic legislation that conditions the autonomous action in this matter, because much more can be said than to express the Government's willingness to act within the framework of the law, first, adopted by this House and, secondly, of course, of the resolutions that can also be adopted in the Basque Parliament to guide, encourage or channel the action of the Government in this and other matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u54	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u55	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Erkoreka, you're still running away from the subject. You've turned me around and around. I agree, we can wait and, moreover, we must wait to see what is happening, indeed, with that appeal of unconstitutionality put forward by the Spanish Government, indeed. I am glad that the lawyers of the State are awaiting this House, that these humble parliamentarians are in the eye of the lawyers of the State; for, listen, very well, to see if we can help them a little more to understand the subject of fracking in Euskadi, I think. I'll give you an example. If this House made a law that approved the right to decide from the Basques, so defended by the Basque Nationalist Party – at some point more than in others, everything has to be said – and the Government of Spain made an appeal of unconstitutionality because it understood that Euskadi cannot decide on the right to decide, you would have very clear what the PNV would do if, in fact, that law were to lie down: they would continue to defend it because it is part of the idea of the PNV, and they would say: "How can the Government of Spain want to take away from us the possibility of a law approved by the Basques with the right to decide?". You would have made the political position of the Basque Government clear. So, my question is: before a law like the law that tries to ban, not generically, because we already knew what we were doing with the law, that it tries to make fracking not a technique developed in Euskadi, before the possibility that this law will actually lie down, do you know what the Basque Government thinks? Another thing is that politically it is not convenient for him to say so. But that is the case, because, if not, it would seem to me that the Basque Nationalist Party does not have a political position with regard to the extraction of hydrocarbons. And as I know you have it and we all know it, so it would be more fair to say, in fact, "We will see what happens to the law, if, in fact, the court suspends it, because the Basque Government is a defender of continuing with the investigation and exploration because it seems to us very responsible that, if there is gas under the earth, it can be an economic future for Euskadi." It's just that I'd better be told; it's logical, because it's part of what you understand is fracking. But tell me, don't tell me you want to put yourself in the position that the court is also burying the law. It is necessary to put on, because, as in everything – and you, who know much more about politics than I do, besides by age because you know, you know it – there is always plan A and plan B. In addition, it usually works to have two possibilities, and you know what the situation is if the law is buried and what the situation is if it is not buried. What happens is that you do not mean, in fact, that you are going to continue with this, and less at the door of an election campaign, when in the previous election campaign one of the flags was "The PNV will ban fracking". Then don't lie to us. It seems much better to me that the political party says what it thinks, it seems much more logical to me. Then I'll tell you something else. Mrs López de Ocariz, who is not here at the moment, did not at any time say that this request for unconstitutionality of the law had been at the bilateral meeting. He didn't say that, because, man, it would seem a little strong if I said it there. What he said is that from the Basque Government there are voices that say that this law is unconstitutional. That's what it says, it's not the same. Don't put things in my mouth that I haven't said. Finally, I will tell you, Mr Erkoreka, that, man, I have to believe that even if the law is suspended the government of Mr Urkullu, as this Parliament has said, will fulfil parliamentary mandates, it is that it gives me up to laugh. But if you do not comply with most of the non-law propositions in which you are not part of the vote! I can give you examples of areas that I carry: Montes de Vitoria, it's that it hasn't come once or twice, it's that it doesn't matter. It is that you do not comply with what this Parliament has said. But as that theme there are many in each of the areas. You do what you believe, what you participate in and have been part of the agreement; what you do not and what you do not care about, "competence of Madrid". So don't tell me that you are fulfilling parliamentary mandates, because we are here all day demanding that this government comply with what this House commands. And I'll give you another example: energy poverty. Resolution No 42 of the plenary session of 7 November. If yesterday was the last day we asked them to do it again, and the PNV voted against it! But what are you telling me? If I know what's going to happen! The thing is, I'd like you to say it. Because, moreover, it seems fair to me that each party defends its political position. I know that if the Constitutional Court ends up looking for illegality in the law and ends up suspending it, the Basque Nationalist Party will come back with what it was, they will disguise it, they will call it otherwise and if it is near the elections they will leave it standing. But say it, say you understand it's fair to explore the land to see if there's gas. But stop feeling dizzy. Speak clear. What are you going to do? Just like they'd do with the right to decide. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u56	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Rojo, I have drawn two conclusions from your last speech: firstly, that you do not like the right to decide whether it is not applied to all the Spaniards; and secondly, that you not only insist on the idea that the debate on fracking is eminently ideological and political, but in this area it seems that there are modulations of the different political formations around the position they maintain regarding the hydraulic fracture. See if there have been any modulations that I, who am a lawyer and have never moved in the energy world, the first idea I had of fracking was when I saw Patxi López on television defending fracking ardently with a helmet on, I think he was in the United States. I then did not form part of the Basque policy stricto sensu, I did not form part of the Basque institutions, but to see you cry out against fracking when the first idea I had of fracking, when I knew that fracking existed as a technique of exploration, exploitation of hydraulic resources or energy resources, at last, was precisely through the Socialist Party and the sale that you made of the matter, because, in fact, there I cannot agree more with you: in fact, there are modulations between the political parties in relation to this matter. With regard to political positions, I believe that there is a fact to which I referred in my speech, in the two speeches, which I believe is eloquent in this respect. There has been a debate in the Congress of Deputies on this very important issue, which has resulted in a resolution that has the majority backing of the House and which probably points to a major change in the basic rule, of the basic rules that will discipline this matter from the moment when it is possible to regularize the chambers and act normally in legislative production. I have seen that there were only two oppositions..., sorry, that did not join the consensus two political formations: the PP, who voted against, and, incidentally, Citizens, who I believe had signed an agreement with you and who abstained. Well, see if there's any modulations, too. I want to say that political modulations here, because, yes, sometimes there are pairings with those who are not so strong in what you think is essential to setting positions in relation to certain policies. I therefore disagree with you on the right to decide, I am in favour of the right to decide, and I agree with you that, indeed, it is a matter, it is a political debate that is very, very mediated by modulations, by the evolutions of political formations according to the circumstances of the time, time and place. From there, I cannot share with you such a negative approach that it does with regard to the compliance of the Government with the resolutions of the House. Every six months – which has never happened until now, until this term – the Government refers to the House every six months and a report is formally submitted to the House by a high-ranking official which gives an account of the level of implementation of the resolutions adopted by the House. Indeed, there are resolutions that have been implemented to a greater extent, others to a lesser extent, but I cannot share with you that assessment which makes, that absolutely negative, that sharply negative balance of the level of compliance by the Executive with parliamentary agreements. At all, there are many resolutions that are fulfilled in whole or in part, and there are many resolutions in which there has been a will to implement by the Executive, but not all resolutions are always materializable, because the House has its conditionalities in reaching its consensus, and it does not always formulate or correct in the formulation of proposals or resolutions that are enforceable. In any case, I can only insist on the approaches I have been advocating throughout the two interpellations. The Government will always move within the strict framework of legality, taking as a first reference the law adopted by this House, as a first reference, but not only as the law adopted in this House, because it is the first, but it is not the only one. The law is inserted into a legal framework, within which it has to be interpreted and implemented. And, of course, the resolutions in this House on this matter will be complied with, observed and enforced by the Executive as well within the framework of what must be a civilized relationship between Parliament and the Executive in a parliamentary regime such as the current one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpology, myria Llanos Gómez, member of the Popula team, made to the president for the subway of Bikaz. and 5 for lines. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everybody, good morning, lehendakari, counselors. You, Mr. lehendakari, a few days ago, in the presentation of your 1,000 days of government, were working on the implementation of your government program. And today he has told us here that Euskadi is one of the communities that has had the most progress, the most development, the most evolution. Well, you will agree with me that one of the main indicators of progress, development, evolution and innovation is to have a modern transport network. It is necessary to bet decisively on public transport and sustainable transport. But that cannot be left in a slogan or in an unfulfilled promise, nor can it be a slogan for commitment to sustainability. For this it is necessary to offer real alternatives to the use of clean means of transport which, moreover, often prevent the collapse of our cities. And on that path, the subway represents a strategic bet for clean, safe and sustainable transport, the importance of which I believe no one doubts. The metro has been an element of vertebration in Bilbao and Bizkaia, and therefore in Euskadi. An element of social cohesion and citizen cohesion, as well as an important element of economic dynamism. The main European cities have very large metro networks, and in Spain, cities such as Madrid and Barcelona do not stop expanding their lines and, of course, at a much faster pace than what we do here. Because also here, in Euskadi, in Bizkaia, in Bilbao, if we want to be referents – which you like so much – and offer a transport network that is approaching the parameters of the main European cities, of the main cities of the rest of Spain, the expansion of lines is essential, it is essential to weave that network that is constantly expanding and that guarantees connectivity. In order for this vertebration of the territory, in order for this connectivity to be a reality, it is necessary that this network does not stop, that this network does not stop, that it is completed with new connections and new meeting points, and that it reaches more points of Bilbao and Bizkaia. And within that network it is necessary to bet on lines 4 and 5 of the metro, which are fundamental. One would connect the Bilbao neighbourhoods of Matiko and Rekalde, and the 5 would reach Galdakao; more, to the neighborhood of Usansolo, with an area of important influence. They are, the two lines, vitally important to thousands of vizcains, and you and your party understood that. They have been projects committed and promised to the citizenry. And that's why, as I was saying, you guys were compromising them, too. And on the election program, Mr. lehendakari, with which you ran for office four years ago, I picked it up. It welcomed as one of the commitments the development of the urban, metropolitan and interurban rail system; and, more specifically, the development of metro lines 4 and 5. And I know I picked it up because I saw it this week; because, given the turn of the lines, I already had a doubt that they would appear on the election program. Well, some lines whose history goes through different vicissitudes, depending on whether you are in the opposition or whether you are in the government. I still remember, Mr Lehendakari, when I was a councilwoman at Galdakao City Hall and in the Basque Government there was no Basque Nationalist Party. One of the first meetings that I had as a parliamentarian was with Mr Gasco and precisely to inform me of line 5 of the metro, because at that time the delay of line 5 of the metro was criticized and it was demanded, thus, from the City of Galdakao that funds be included in the 2012 budgets for that line, and they showed that the year 2016 had to be that of the start-up of this infrastructure. They also demanded that 2016 be that of the start-up of line 4. But, Mr Lehendakari, despite taking it on the electoral agenda, you announced in 2014 that in the next three years you are not planning to push lines 4 and 5 of the subway, and this is corroborated by the outcast Member of Bizkaia, Mr Rementeria, who points out that in this legislature, that is, the one that will go until 2019, line 4 will have to wait and line 5 as well. The last thing we have known is that Bizkaia's Foral Diputation subordinates the construction of these lines to the evolution of the collection. The Member of Transport of Bizkaia pointed out that he hopes to know the collection so that, according to the Basque government – with his government, Mr Urkullu – the deadlines and priorities will be set. I mean, Mr Urkullu, that some lines that you passionately, passionately demanded five years ago, now you have to wait to see how much you collect to set deadlines and priorities. I ask you: that expression of "the development of lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro" contained in your election program, what does it mean? Because you like to play with language so much that it probably doesn't mean the same as for the rest of the mortals. We believe that such an important investment requires commitment, requires seriousness and requires rigour, and all this has been lacking in these years. This structure should be a joint bet, in many cases it has been only an object of struggle and with different treatments and demands, depending on whether it is in the Government or the opposition. It now seems that there is more agreement between the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry, between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, it seems that there is more agreement, yes, but more agreement to continue to expand such an important infrastructure over time, it seems that there is more agreement for Rekalde's neighbours to keep waiting and for Galdakao's neighbours to stay on the shuttle. It seems clear, Mr Lehendakari, that the projects for the construction of lines 4 and 5 of the metro are a good electoral resource, a recurring promise of the Basque Nationalist Party, but that, in practice, in practice, they are very little political and budgetary commitment on the part of those who govern. The truth is that there hasn't been a single candidate from the Basque Nationalist Party who hasn't pulled out of these projects in an election campaign, or one, but at this point we already know that the neighbours of Bilbao, Rekalde, Matiko, the neighbours of Galdakao will have to wait seated to enjoy the new connections of the Bilbao metro. That's management, Mr. lehendakari, that's management balance sheet. These are other occasions when you have to account for what you have promised and what you have actually done, which is far, far away, and you have to give those explanations to the citizenry, because it seems that what is good for you, however, is not good for others. On numerous occasions, they have charged the central administration with failing to meet their commitments in some Basque infrastructure. We are well aware of the criticisms you make of the railway "Y" route, not of the route, but of the thrust of that route, on a question, moreover, in which you know that many obstacles have been encountered, but you, I say to you, have not had any concern in charging against Madrid, against the lack of economic and political commitment, even in a much more difficult economic context than the one itself, with much more budgetary constraints, but, of course, you do not consider it; you use, I say, not two measuring rods, as I say, two different metric systems, which are valid for you and which are valid for others. And now we find that lines 4 and 5 of the subway sleep in the drawer of the electoral promises of the PNV candidates, who stayed there, when you came to the elections, and that we will have to wait for the new electoral program in the next elections to give them a new push, but, of course, with electoral pushes the lines are not built, right? We find ourselves in that, where the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government fill their mouths to criticize Madrid, but, nevertheless, they say nothing when they have to account for their own responsibilities and commitments. The truth is that by reviewing what has been done in Bilbao in recent years, the urban transformation, in which there is a great involvement of the central government, the truth, something that still resents the recognition of nationalist leaders, you see the agreement, how important it is. What for the majority has been one of the best examples of institutional cooperation between central government, Basque government, Bizkaia Parliament and Bilbao City Council, for some is not a good formula. And time is showing that such cooperation, that diverse institutional commitment, has made it possible to move forward in Bilbao in that new direction, and that commitment should make lines 4 and 5 a reality. Such a commitment should exist to push them forward, not to delay them. Because it is true that you are reaching agreements with other political formations, with other institutions, but to continue to delay lines 4 and 5. Therefore, I ask you: what have been the reasons for this parking lot on lines 4 and 5? Is it really a commitment to this government? Or are you going to pull it out again in an election campaign?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u60	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u61	Si. Good morning, everyone, again. Mrs Llanos, to see where we are going it is also interesting to know where we came from and to make a brief review of all the mobility issues. It is not necessary to remember everything that has been done, because it helps us to value the effort made and the results obtained. Indeed, the Bilbao metro is an example of mobility, cohesion, the vertebration of a territory, the tractor element of an urban environment, and we know that, but not because we know it has to stop marveling. For Great Bilbao it has been a great revolution. She's 20 years old. Its development has been possible thanks to the collaboration and financing agreements between the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Provincial Council, mainly, but above all to a capacity to look and plan in the long term, always beginning with the preparation of studies and projects. The construction and operation of lines 1 and 2 was articulated through the Bizkaia Transport Consortium, where the Basque Government and the foral and the municipalities of the area are represented. And financing, both in construction and in the operating deficit, is 50% between the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Provincial Council. I would like to remind you at this point that the debt still in 2015 of lines 1 and 2 that we are facing is 452 million. In the case of line 3, the financing of the works in progress is being carried out directly by the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Provincial Council at 50% via Eusko Trenbide Sarea. In this case we are talking about an investment of 279 million euros. But, in parallel to the construction, we continue to look forward, and that is why the studies and projects of lines 4 and 5 to which you refer are ongoing. I'll explain to you what our plans are for lines 4 and 5. Line 4 is an extension of line 3. The total length of the performance exceeds five kilometers and will have six new stations; it will connect in the station of Matiko and, after giving service to the area of Pio X in Deusto, it crosses under the bay of Bilbao and extends in direction Moyua, Zabalburu, Amezola and Rekalde. In Moyua a new exchanger is made with lines 1 and 2 to avoid saturation that, otherwise, occurs in Casco Viejo; it has a station in Rekalde, whose lobby is in quota 21, approximately, with the platforms in quota 17. At this station the line will end, and associated with it will be the maneuver handle, located immediately after the station and taking advantage of the alignment of Altube Street. It has another station in Irala, at a depth of about 40 meters, located on the ground floor between Irala Street and Kirikiño Avenue, at its intersection with Bergara Avenue and the Irala Crossroad. The station will be of those of classical scheme, in cave, with two mezzanines of access to the platforms. One of the exit cannons will exit in the small square existing in the encounter with the street Eskurtze. The exit canyon of the north mezanina is located in a stretch of Monastery Street, which will need to be pedestrianized. An elevator will be located in the north mezzanine, and on the outside emerges on the corner between Irala Street and Bergara Avenue. For its location it is proposed to widen the sidewalk in that area, eliminating some parking space. Zabalburu Station is located at a depth of approximately 25 meters, located on the north floor of Zabalburu Square, under the block of buildings between Alameda San Mames and Calle Particular de Costa. One of the exit canyons ends in General Concha Street and with this canyon connects the elevator that appears on the surface in the Alameda San Mamés. Moyua Station is the most complex and emblematic of the performance. It is the point of connection of lines 1, 2 and the new line 4, and it arises as a single exchange station instead of two interconnected stations. The proposal aims to maintain the qualities and characteristics of the metro (clarity of circulations, roundness, forms and materials, use of natural light), as in the stations of Sarriko and Ansio; thus, once the traveler accesses the station of Moyua has a global view of the whole and the route to be made. We also have another station in "Parque", with a similar configuration as I explained to you, another station in Deusto University, which is located under the confluence of Lehendakari Aguirre Avenue with Ramón and Cajal Street in the area near Pio X Square and about 30 meters deep. Step to line 5. It is conceived as an extension of line 2 of the subway. The total length exceeds six kilometres and has five stations. Part of the current Etxebarri station of Metro Bilbao, runs through the area of Sarratu, where a new interchanger will be located with the railway coming from Gernika and Durango, to then cross under the river Nervión and give service to the urban center of Galdácano in a first phase and to the regional hospital of Galdácano in later phase. It has a station in Sarratu, which runs along the current Euskotren tracks and at its same level, and therefore provides a connecting route to facilitate their maintenance. The station has four lanes, four platforms, allows the exchange of passengers between the railway lines and has a common lobby on the surface. The Aperribai station is a very simple station, with a central platform built in the open air, although it will be covered for correct integration in a very complicated space. There will be another station in Bengoetxe, in the lower part of the neighborhood, between Sixta Barrenetxea Street and Ibaizabal Street, which aims to serve both the Bengoetxe district and the industrial estate located immediately south of the national road 634. There will be another station in Galdácano. Galdácano Station is located in the urban centre of Galdácano, in the vicinity of the Red Square. The cavern that accommodates it has a length of 108 meters, includes walkers, tracks, halls, distribution, with three accesses to the outside. Station also in the hospital. The hospital station is located in the vicinity of the Galdácano district hospital and is conditioned on its position with respect to it by the hospital's own facilities and the services provided there, as well as by the presence of the car park building of this sanitary equipment, and also the national 240, which is a lot below the hospital – which is located on a high, as you know. The cave is located on the ground floor between this road and the parking space attached to the Galdácano hospital. The considerable difference in quota between the station lobby and the hospital entrance will be saved by the installation of lifts. The station's cave, in addition, will need two emergency exits. This is the technical summary, for you to see the point at which we are in the writing of studies, concretion, definition of strokes, etc., both with line 4 and with line 5. It is a "grosso mode" summary of future lines, and, of course, from our side, if you want to deepen, we are at your disposal from ETS to have a detailed, much more technical exposition of what these lines are. I share with you the need for public transport and sustainable transport, and in that we are working, to put an integrated mobility, not only with the implementation of infrastructures and means of transport, but also with the implementation of interoperability in transport, with the implementation of the single ticket, which, as you know, continues to take important steps. And I encourage you to continue in this urban transformation of Bilbao also to make the same effort to carry out the underground of the railways in Abando and the urban transformation of all the necessary urban action through the means of the Ministry of Development and with the collaboration of the Basque Government, which, as you know, we have always had the hand to continue working in the transformation of Bilbao, in the urban transformation of Bilbao, both with the implementation of transport lines and with the urban transformations, in the regeneration and cleaning of the ria and also in the challenges facing us in the future (line 4, line 5 and entrance of the high-speed train in Bilbao). Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u63	Thank you again, Madam President. The truth is..., look, in this Chamber one has the ability to surprise, and believe me, less evil than I do, because if not... I was asking... I was asking you, Mr Lehendakari, because this is not a technical question, which is also a political question. It is a matter of reporting on the outcome of management. At a specific point: you who so much like to talk about people..., really, transportation is very important to people, and from many aspects. What happens is, of course, you have to move from the slogan, you have to move from the program, you have to move from the role to the facts. And that already costs you more. And I was saying about my surprise ability because, really, Mrs. Oregi, the answer you gave us here today... It sends us the project and the same, but I have not asked you what is the project of lines 4 and 5 of the metro, which is, more, if you put and go to Wikipedia, that I believe that the neighbors of Bilbao and those of Galdakao, for the moment, is the only place where you will be able to see lines 4 and 5 of the metro, when you go to Wikipedia, because in the rest some will remain incommunicado without the metro coming to your neighborhood, and the others, mounted on the shuttle; now without problems of getting them down the Ertzaintza from the shuttle as has happened on other occasions for school yard fights between two parties, but on the shuttle. And now... he took me out of the basement at the end. It is that you take any occasion, really, and I believe that you are absolutely sorry that in this case you cannot blame Madrid, because you would be delighted, delighted to say "It is that Madrid does not let us do the works of the metro, it is that Madrid, is that with Madrid you cannot". They'd be delighted. Of course, it is a pity that this is self-management here, to account for self-management, of what is the priority of this Government. And we have to wait to see the budget collection, according to the last ones, to see the deadlines and set the priorities. Hey! I thought it was a priority for this government from the time of the elections, which came on its electoral agenda, but no, now we have to see how the collection goes to set the deadlines, which I do not know if it will tell us in the next one, because in the previous one, nothing at all. We have to wait now to see how much it is collected; now, that's right, that's right, for other administrations it doesn't matter if they had the deficit they had, it doesn't matter if they had the budgetary tightness they had, it doesn't matter: if that doesn't happen, "They make cuts." But you don't, you don't make cuts, you make adjustments. I'm telling you, the use of language..., Lazarus Carreter is his book of heading, but, come on, I have no doubt, that of all the counselors, to look for synonyms to the various issues: we don't talk about the fall of audience but about the evolution of audiences; we don't talk about cuts but about adjustments..., and, you see, I'm waiting for the delay in the deadlines in this infrastructure to see what is the synonym you put me, to see what is the synonym you put me. Because, I'm telling you, they were passionately demanding it in 2011, at Galdakao City Hall, they were demanding the Basque government... If they did a demonstration promoted by you so that the subway would have to be in Usánsolo! And, come on, the following year there had to be budgetary commitment and it had to be in 2016, and we're in 2016 and we don't even have deadlines. We're still going to look at the timelines and priorities for building. This is your management, Mr. Urkullu. This is your management. And I'm not surprised that you didn't want to leave here today, because, actually, to give Mrs. Oregi's answer, if you give it... It's inexplicable in her, but in you, I think she'd have fallen for shame. Because, if that is the explanation of what the Basque Government has for line 4 and 5 of the metro, explain a technical project to you, I invite you to explain it in electoral campaign, to explain what you have, what you have, and not to make promises again, because you promise in electoral campaign works all over the corners; that is, when we then have to set priorities, priorities are others, and the citizens of Bilbao and Galdakano...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u64	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u65	Mrs. Llanos, I'm sorry to say that that wasn't a technical explanation. That was a very succinct explanation, and I reiterate that, if you want to know the projects in detail, because we are in it, you are invited to see them with us whenever you want. I or any of my team will explain it to you with a thousand loves. At the moment, in relation to the Bilbao metro, we are in the middle of the rear to launch line 3, and here we have focused the main economic efforts of the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry on the completion. And we are talking about a total investment, I insist, of EUR 279 million, with a significant financial effort for both institutions. We haven't forgotten lines 1 and 2. We have carried out or are in progress various performances on line 1, for example, the underground of Urduliz station, the parking lot of Ibarbengoa. The same applies to line 2, which follows its course and continues to require investments as well. We have put in service, for example, the section of Santurtzi-Cabieces. The debt of the construction of lines 1 and 2 of metro at the end of 2015 amounted to 452 million euros. On the other hand, the investment on line 3 amounts to EUR 279 million. More investments in Metro Bilbao? We're getting line 3 sharp. We are looking to the future, but we are looking at and planning, as I said before, in the long term. We are talking about long-term investments; investments that, in fact, as you said, spill over the territory and generate urban transformation. That requires a long-term look and a calm and calm look, not forgetting to continue working on the other lines. I remind you that we are strict recipients of the deficit, and that we also respect and preserve social services in the first place. This Government is responsible and is not going to get involved in more things than can be financed or paid. Does that mean we're going to stop, we're going to stop doing works? No, it means that we are going to be responsible for spending, responsible for investments in mobility, and of course we are going to meet the needs and the territorial balance: we are talking about lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro, but not just lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro; as I said, also lines 1 and 2, also of line 3, also of the Donostialdea metro, also of the extension of the tram in Vitoria, also of the elimination of steps at level. The list is long, it's very broad. On the subject of the question, and for further clarification, I will tell you that we are developing, as has become clear, the studies and projects necessary for the future construction of line 5, Etxebarri-Galdakao-Hospital, and line 4, Matiko-Moyua-Rekalde. The situation of the projects is: online 5 we are awaiting approval of the information study of the Galdácano section center-Hospital, the construction projects of the civil work are completed and this May we will bid the projects of installations and equipment. On line 4 we have tendered the tender for the drafting of the project of the civil work of the Matiko-Moyua section, and the tenders received for its award are being studied. The development of lines 4 and 5, in fact, will be conditional on the budgetary availability of administrations and the ability to make and agree on efforts, as it cannot be otherwise. Needless to say, I say, in case of chance, that the Basque Government continues to hold its bet on the development of the Bilbao metro – and not just on the Bilbao metro, but on the whole of the transformation of the city of Bilbao – and that line 3 is a point and a follow-up and that investments must and will continue. I have to say it, but I say it because, although it's too much, I don't want anyone to miss it. Our commitment is very strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. At this point, I don't know, cut or put it in the question... Five point in theme list: "To ask you, Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-UPyD members of the party made to the president about the program of the cult of Donostia 2016 European capital and "produced as political, military, cultural." Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u67	Thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, we asked whether the Government had put forward to Donostia-San Sebastián the European Capital of Culture any allegation, whether it had asked, in the end, that the information leaflets of one of its actions correct the classification of the terrorist band ETA as a "political, military and cultural phenomenon", in particular, in the information leaflet prepared by those responsible for the Donostia capital for the presentation of the exhibition "1989. After Algiers's conversations. Delirio and Tregua", which can be seen in the Artium of Vitoria from August 11. The Basque Government is part of the patronage and provides significant economic amounts for European capital. That language harms and humiliates the victims and those who fought against the terrorist gang. It's an insult to define a terrorist gang like that. The mayor of San Sebastián himself, of the Basque Nationalist Party, announced that he was in favour of adjusting the text to reflect the unequivocal commitment to consider ETA as a terrorist phenomenon. Along the same lines, the Director of Victims and Human Rights, Mrs. Hernando, said that this was a "error" and announced that it would be remedied. It's important that you get better. But here comes the Vice-Counselor of Culture, Mr Muñoz, last Wednesday, and supports the qualification of ETA as a cultural phenomenon; therefore, we have no choice but to keep the question and demand the Councilwoman, first of all, to tell us whether she supports her Vice-Counselor and the Lehendakari himself. What we ask from UPyD is for the decisive decision to change all the brochures and approaches related to this exhibition, because we cannot allow the slightest flirtation with a language that does harm, which causes pain to the victims of terrorism and to all those who were persecuted, extortioned and murdered by the terrorist band ETA. We cannot allow the perversion of language. We cannot admit that this type of expression is used. The Government must therefore act, it must say that it does not agree with that expression, it must say that, in fact, ETA was not a cultural phenomenon. We therefore forcefully demand that it be immediately and unequivocally decided to correct that expression. ETA cannot be classified as a cultural phenomenon. The question is therefore clear: has your Government shown any claim that Donostia-San Sebastián qualifies ETA as a "political, military and cultural phenomenon"? Are you going to make any allegations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u68	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr Maneiro, the Government has taken an interest in this issue and has also obtained an explanation, an immediate answer. "Treaty of peace" is a project of the European Capital of Culture, and one of its proposals is the exhibition entitled "After the talks in Algiers". I must remind you that in the same paragraph in which the expression you quote appears, the activity of ETA is described as "terrorist" in it. As a whole, in no way can it be deduced from that text any elevating meaning of ETA. It is clear that, out of context, the expression is very unfortunate. You have quoted the words of the mayor, and both by the mayor himself and also by the words of the director of Human Rights, who is of the Basque Government, and of the president of the Patronate of the Foundation Donostia 2016, Eneko Goia, so understood, as we have understood, and to avoid any misunderstanding proposed to correct the text. He also wanted to make clear the commitment of the capital and all the institutions that form part of the foundation in the rejection of ETA terrorism. More: the patronage ratified it yesterday with the support of all the institutions, and today I repeat it as lehendakari and on behalf of the Basque Government. I would also like to reiterate what the Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture Councillor herself said this very Wednesday in the employers' office: "To all the institutions that make up the capital we are united in an unequivocal position of rejection of what has been ETA for this country", public words of the Councillor representing the entire department and the entire government. Peace and coexistence are the core of the entire project of the European Capital of Culture 2016. This is also the main idea behind all its programming, including the exhibition "Treatment of Peace". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u71	Yes, Mr. Lehendakari. However, the vice-counsellor, Mr Muñoz, two days ago reiterated that ETA is a cultural phenomenon. Are you going to explain to your vice-counsel that this cannot be said or admitted? Are you going to ask for your resignation in case you don't apologize? In any case, I would like to reply with a few words recently written by Mr Aramburu: "It is raining over wet and we are faced with a new attempt to trivialize the criminal and terrorist character of ETA, which is consistent with the policies developed by the Basque Government. The claim that ETA is a cultural phenomenon is offensive to historical truth, and can only be attributed to ignorance or bad faith. Denomination of ETA as a cultural phenomenon is only possible since the trivialization of what culture means. Culture is life and freedom. Both were despised and denied by ETA." Therefore, Mr Lehendakari, you have to say these things clearly and you have to explain it also to the vice-counsel, who two days ago defined ETA as cultural phenomena. In any case, I'm asking you if you're going to ask your vice-counsel to resign or apologize.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u72	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, if you want to refer to the words of the Vice-Adviser, I will ask you to refer to the exact words of the Vice-Adviser. In any case, I no longer know how to answer you, the truth, to questions that you usually ask in connection with this question. I do not know how to answer you because I have quoted what has been the rectification on the part of the capitality, the correction on the part of the capitality of which we are members, the patronage; I have quoted the words of the Director of Human Rights whom you yourself have quoted, which is of the Basque Government, the Director of Human Rights and Co-existence and of Victims; I have quoted the words of the Counsellor, who is of the Basque Government; I have also quoted the decontextualization to which you arrive with the words of the Deputy Councillor. I see, I insist, and I repeat that the correction of capital was immediately carried out without giving rise to any kind of doubt. I reiterate what was stated this Wednesday by the councilwoman in the employers' office, saying "To all the institutions that we integrate the capitality unites us with an unequivocal position of rejection of what has been ETA for this country". Public words of the Counsellor representing the entire department and the entire Government. I told you in the first speech. You don't give a damn about the claim or the outcome of it. Look, not to me, because this is a very relevant issue and it is up to me to make it very clear to Basque society that, first, the commitment of Donostia 2016, as well as all Basque institutions in the face of terrorism and violence is clear and unquestionable; second, the central core of cultural capital is coexistence, its motto expresses it this way, "Conviving is living with"; and third, the objective of the exhibition "Treatment of Peace" is peace and law, seen from art. Your claim that this reality seems to be the opposite of what it is makes no sense or course, Mr Maneiro, as far as the Basque Government is concerned. It's a partnership with Donstrosia 2016 of all the duties of the capitalization, and also the use of this inspection of art. That's how a clear, complete glance shows it. There is no doubt about all kinds of organizations and institutions, and this event has had the value of confirming the commitment to peace and partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Then we'll have a two-minute silence. [[Pause]] We'll move on. Point 10: "I'm asking you, Jose Antonio Pastor, a member of the Basque Socialists, a member of the United States of the United States, about a magazine of the Basque Mitch." Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u75	Thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, the Advertising Act sets out very clearly what institutional advertising campaigns are for and what they cannot be for. They have to be in order to inform citizens of new services, rights, obligations, values, alerts, etc., but it is expressly prohibited in Article 5 to allocate public money to carry out campaigns aimed at highlighting the management achievements or the objectives achieved by the government in charge, i.e. the autobomb. For a month, more or less, you can hear on the radio stations of Euskadi advertising wedges contracted by the Department of Health in which, in Basque and Spanish, a female voice literally manifests the following: "I prepare myself conscientiously for you to trust me. When it comes to health it is essential to observe, ask, attend. I also care, help and serve. I give everything, it's my profession and my vocation. Patients and professionals form the largest team, the one we carry in the heart, our team." And the message closes with the conspicuous "Vasco Government, commitment to people". And the question is very direct: what program, what action, what service, what new delivery, what vaccine, what alert or health advice is intended to transfer to the citizenry with this campaign?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u76	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. Pastor, people are the central axis of the action of the Basque Government and the Department of Health. Health and the health system are an undisputed area of interest in the priorities of people living in Euskadi, who have a decisive influence on quality of life and well-being. The public health system, the health system of all, is also a tool for cohesion of Basque society and therefore a key factor in our social model, to which we devote a very important part of the government's budget. Osakidetza is one of the most valued and prestigious public services among Basque society, a health service promoted throughout its 33 years by the various autonomous executives. But to provide a quality health service the most important thing is to have competent and committed professionals like the workers in our health system. Public workers who deserve the trust and support of Basque institutions and the recognition of the society they serve and who do not always feel. Consistency is a public health system, which has been acquired through the years of the euscal society, by industry and great industry, all of us, and we are proud of our own system and our professionals. In the Basque Government, as in Basque society, we are proud of the work of Osakidetza's staff. We are convinced that our health is in good hands and that the efforts of professionals must be recognized. That was the message we wanted to open: the health of society is in good hands. Professional professionals have our full trust.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u78	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u79	Well, look, counselor, I join in your loa to Osakidetza as a fundamental service, but you were also answering a question you were asked at another time; of course, not mine. This government has a serious problem with advertising, or a fixation: several executive positions are now charged in the courts on matters of buying information from related media, and in this House he has repeatedly been criticized for the arbitrariness with which these remedies are used. But you continue to err by slipping through the edge of the law or passing directly to the other side. And my group is not going to criticize that they are spreading as they are also doing the rental of empty homes, or that people resort to Kontsumobide, or the Lehen Aukera program; what we criticise is that this government involves in advertising and auto-bomb other things with the money of everyone, that it wants to hide with publicity its management or, more precisely, its lack of management. Today it has been remembered here that this government stopped spending a total of 661 million euros in 2015 – most of them, by the way, in investments and programs to boost research – but in advertising it is necessary to recognize that you spend the whole of the world effectively, even in order not to sell anything, just pure image and appearance. And since you have not answered the question, in this campaign that was contracted with the statement of "About professionals of Osakidetza" – that you have not told me if any service, some service, some health advice is spread –, at the very least, the department intends to congratulate the professionals who work in Osakidetza, who do not seem to be, by the way, very happy with their management in terms of health. But I insist, institutional advertising, which is paid with money from everyone, is not precisely to make public relations or to improve the image of the shift counselor; it is not so – let me tell you this – as this commitment to the people with whom we are bored day by day in all the media is demonstrated.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u80	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u81	You will agree with me that, if you start your second shift saying that I did not exactly answer the question, then you would have to listen again to the answer you gave me, to see the relationship you have with a campaign in relation to trust in the professionals of Osakidetza. Health is a teamwork, and the confidence that thousands of Basques and Basques place daily is the result, above all, of the work and effort that their professionals carry out. The people you have seen or heard in the campaign that has been running since April 11 are Osakidetza professionals who have participated in the campaign voluntarily, professionals who have wanted to take part in the campaign with the aim of highlighting teamwork and values, those you have also mentioned in the first intervention. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank publicly all the professionals in Osakidetza for their daily work in all the centres. We are convinced that the work they do deserves the recognition of Basque society, which trusts them and them, and appreciates their involvement. That conflictivity that you reminded me of, what you want me to tell you, we don't feel so much and we're going quite to the centers, just like you would like there to be more than there really is. On more than one occasion throughout this legislature we have been accused of wanting to privatize Osakidetza. It has been a long time since the beginning; the time and work done has shown that nothing further from our intention, and with this campaign we have wanted to enhance the public health system and, above all, its professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u82	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The eleventh subject on the subject list: "The question is, that Gorka Maneiro Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team should not celebrate the birth of the poet Blas Otero." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u83	Thank you, President. Mr. Lehendakari, Counsellor. On 14 March this group addressed a written question concerning the birth of the Bilbaon poet Blas de Otero. On 18 April, the reply was received, with only five lines, confirming that the Basque Government has neither planned nor intends to take any action to commemorate the above-mentioned ephemeride; in our view, a serious error. I ask you, Madam Counsellor, what are the Government's reasons for not carrying out or supporting any act of tribute on the centenary of the birth of the Vizcay poet Blas de Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u84	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u85	President of the Parliament, President, chief of the Department, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Maneiro, when you say your question to Blas de Oterori, you forget not to celebrate or be abandoned at his age. Do you really think that this government has forgotten SCRIPT Blas de Osteria, the Language Polic and the Cultural Department, more accurately? No, Mr. Maniro. As this government is very well aware of, the poems of Blas de Oterean are extremely rich, and they make a vast contribution to culture; we should never forget a great writer like him. Blas de Otero is a very famous, well-known, and admired poet. The famous "Fastenratth" of the Kings Academy or has won prizes like the international Omega Resistanza. Besides this, it is fortunate for us, and what is proud of us, that the work of the poet remains in the land of the euskal, which was his land, thanks to the Blas de Ostera Foundation. "Four poems", "Angel feramente humane", "En castellano", or "I ask for peace and the word" are just some of his works of art, and it is our duty and responsibility to protect, preserve and safeguard this work as an important and most valuable part of our cultural heritage. And this government, as I say to you, very aware of the importance and richness of its work, has provided in its annual budget an economic item of 40,000 euros for the cataloguing and dissemination of its work. But what he has done has not done so only this year, which indeed coincides with the centenary of his birth, but has foreseen it annually. And this is because we consider it important to contribute to the cataloguing, dissemination and enhancement of his work, both prolific and valuable. As for the celebrations of the centenary, this Government believes in civil society and we believe that the initiative of possible celebrations is the foundation, with which, as I have already said, we cooperate willingly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u87	Thank you, President. Yes, we do believe that the Basque Government has forgotten the Vizcay poet, so we ask the oral question after having received the written answer. And we think that he has forgotten the Vizcay poet because he does not present any tribute or celebration of his centenary and, therefore, from there we think that, in fact, this Government does absolutely nothing to remember who this poet was so extraordinary and so important. You talk about an annual match that is repeated every year, of 40,000 euros. We think it is insufficient, we think that on the anniversary of its centenary it is necessary to demand something more from the Basque Government. That is to say, that it promotes a concrete celebration to remind this poet, and that is, indeed, what we ask through this question. On March 15, 1916, he was born in Bilbao Blas de Otero, one of the most outstanding Spanish poets of the 20th century. During the 1930s he was part of several artistic-literary groups and chats in the capital of Vizcaine. In the 1950s he was considered one of the great poets. After a brief exile in Paris and his membership in the Communist Party, one of his great works appears, "I ask for peace and the word". He returned to Spain, although most of his work in recent years was censored. He died in Madrid in 1979; therefore, the centenary of his birth was celebrated in March. The human and literary figure of Blas de Otero, in our opinion, should be properly remembered, taking advantage of the ephemeride of the centenary of his birth. It is not enough to contribute 40,000 euros per year. It should encourage the Government itself to pay tribute, as it has, by the way, done to other writers who usually write in Basque. It is therefore not intended to carry out acts or to subsidise or support those which other entities or associations have carried out or are to carry out on the occasion of the centenary. This is the reality of the facts. We think that spreading the work of Blas de Otero is supporting culture, reading and poetry, and this is obviously the competence of your department, counselor. Other events of honour for Lizardi, Orixe, Lauaxeta and Iparraguirre have been organized, promoted and supported. We want to do the same with the great Basque writers who decided to write in Spanish. We therefore support the holding of some acts, but also of those others. It is an example, in our opinion, of the sectarianism and of the exclusionary nationalism of this Government, which basically does not want to be read "I ask for peace and the word", one of the great poems written throughout the history of Spanish literature. That is our conclusion. There have been or are going to be tributes made by the Bilbao City Council, from cities such as Madrid, Palencia or Ibiza, who want to remember this Basque poet, and it turns out that the Basque Government does not promote any tribute. It's a misconception. I ask you to rectify and commemorate the centenary of the birth of poet Blas de Otero. The poet deserves it and we deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u88	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u89	Mr. Maniro, as I have already told you, this government foresees a match for the Blas de Oterola Foundation every year, and accords with it because it is very important for us to have catalogy and maintenance of its work. So I have to ask you not to disturb society. You mean with your words that Blas de Otero has written in Spanish, it may be a problem for us, which is far from reality. Moreover, with Sabina de la Cruz, the poet of Bilbo, who is a friend and widow and president of the foundation, I will tell you that we have a very good relationship. And though you insist on it, he hasn't asked us for any subsidy to celebrate. "My eyes would speak if my lips were muted. I'd be blind and my right hand would keep talking, talking, talking." Mr Maneiro, the respect and admiration that this government and I personally have for this great poet is immense, and the relationship that this government has with the Blas de Otero Foundation is excellent. It shows that we have been invited to participate in one of the commemorative events, which we will of course gladly attend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "about the degree of representation of the Basque Commercial Confederacy between the Compeves." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u91	Good morning. Mr. President, it is well known that in the course of decades Confebask has marked himself as the sole representative of all the corporations and the sole champions of interest, and it is known that most of the public authorities have approved this attitude, and have encouraged it in the daily practice or in the strategic decision. However, there are not a few agents who have doubted this state, and thus they display a small delegation among the corporations. During the last few days, the delegation of the corporations has been created a new polemics, and several unions have insisted on taking steps around the delegation level of the corporation and making decisions, and still more because of a non-known delegation, when Confebask has received nearly 38 million euros in recent years. So what we want to know is if it's a kind of will to know the order of delegation between the Confebask firms.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Arriedo, you're not aware of the order of the corporate firm you're asking for, no information, no. However, there has been no hindrance in the collective negotiations you have discussed, in order to appoint the chief of enterprises, and therefore he has the whole commission to negotiate the collective sacramental agreements of Euchara. No one doubted this, and all the builders confessed it. So far, at least, the public or private agents have not questioned this delegation. You ask me about the will, and you do it because it's a new patriotic day. And, indeed, of us there will be no objection to this degree of representation. It is true that neither the Government nor any other institution, not only the Government, has specific information on the representation of business organizations. In fact, today there is no policy mechanism that will allow us to measure that level of representation. Nor is there any impediment to putting it before the new situation created. In any case, the important thing is that to date this has not prevented the legitimation of the dialogue in the negotiation of collective agreements in Euskadi, as has been recognised by all the social partners. This level of interaction may vary as new representative capacities are recognised in the areas of collective bargaining, which corresponds to both business representation and trade unions themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u95	Mr. President. What you said, what you said, we received a month ago, or this month, I think, at the answer to a question written. And again you have repeated that no one has hitherto, in some way, doubted, and that all the agents have given Confebasky such a surrender, and that it has been so for many years in a collective negotiation. And so it is, but it is not true that no one has doubted it, and that, when it is used, it has been the reason to receive it for the last 38 million years. And I'm saying it's not true, because recently they're asking us to rule a system, to put it in Confebask to know how to represent other corporations. For example, more than a year ago, I think it will be two years ago, when Preco's arrangement was to be renewed, when the subject was already laid upon the table. And it was added that, in a proposed way, a problem had already been given during the collective negotiations, and that Bikakai's shop was now involved. And there was no answer and there was nothing to be done. Another example, which you have put down, which has not yet been explained in the negotiation with the graphic table until a few weeks ago, as far as I can tell. And, in a way, the delegation has to be acresed. There is a system of information about the representative of the unions, and there is a system of the political parties here, so we believe that the time has come for the patricians to have a system of evading their representatives. Then I say it again seriously: Mr. President doesn't think so, and Mr. Toña, whether the time has come to regulate and to do it? Is that what you're talking about? Indeed, when we speak of Confebask, who collects so much money, but not only that; and also of the patrician who, in recent times, seeks to abolish the unions which the form of labour has been applied to, or of those who seek to place the collective negotiation in the past, and to make it a rule of cultivation. And to do that, he gets more than once the inevitable push, and all that, without knowing what he really represents.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Arrido, I will not turn away from the question by reflecting on Confebaski or criticizing Confebas. What has been said here has been about the plot of negotiation and the legality of the delegation from the head of business and whether the rank of representation can be measured or not, and I have told you at first. And it's true, there's the new Garen patronal, we know it. It's true that the new Gen Patronal has been created, it's true, and it's true, you know, it's connected with all the institutions in the Euskal, so it's also with the Gen Patronal. It's been two jobs this year. Therefore, admitting that we have the legitation and meeting of the delegation, and that we have meetings, the development of the collective negotiation, as has been said, will mark the direction of the change of representation, and has hitherto been a declared representative of Confebask in collective negotiations. And I repeat that the development of collective negotiation will mark the direction of the delegation's change. Do you want to create another rule or not? I've come to my first call like a mad-go-luck. In the negotiations of business the unions also have the ability to represent different institutions, and therefore there is a power to reflect on all this will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies, members of the Basque Sociists of the Social Society, made of Eplegus and National Society for the eucalyptic strategy of fighting against industry." Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u99	Good morning. Let's talk about job poverty. Last March, Euskadi closed with 619 people unemployed less and also, as a curious fact, with 52 more recipients of income guarantee income. It is true that the unemployment figure, which the councillor moderated, shows a downward trend. However, it is striking that the income guarantee income data has not been analysed either by the advisor or by the Government, because it has an assessment: it shows a upward trend, at levels similar to those of last summer. The number of recipients of income guarantee income is again at levels similar to when you completed the study of real poverty resulting from job insecurity and wage insufficiency. The figure of unemployment has many readings: there are those who have given up being targeted in Lanbide, there are those who have gone from unemployment to retirement and there are those who access jobs, but they are precarious in a very general way. Mr Councilman, you will not deny me that the unemployment figure must also be analysed by looking at the evolution of the number of persons receiving income from income guarantee income. A year ago, my group asked its department for detailed information from the claimant groups on income guarantee income by age, sex and employment status. Thus, the data provided already revealed that the group that has increased the most as a claimant of income guarantee income is that of employed or employed persons who, despite having a job, charge poor wages that are even lower than income guarantee income. In its monograph on the comprehensive strategy to address unemployment and poverty, held in November 2014, among other resolutions adopted, the Government was urged to submit to the House within six months the study on real poverty, precisely due to job insecurity and insufficient wages, in order to shed light on the situations that are hidden in this labour poverty. The intention is nothing else but that direct measures can be taken, within our competence, to correct this situation, a mandate that is relevant to this reality that is taking place. However, you carried out the mandate with considerable delay and pressure from my parliamentary group. A year later, the Basque Government finally sent this Parliament a document which, as I said at the time, neither lists the definition of concepts nor the methodology used, and draws attention to the fact that it does not incorporate conclusions. In fact, it is not a study, it is a report that uses as the only source the adapted module of the poverty and social inequalities survey, within that 2014 needs survey. It collects, in some way, the data that you have already provided to us via Parliament through written questions or requests for information. A month ago you in this House recognized the existence of labour poverty and the deterioration of working conditions. He expressed his concern, but he evaded the responsibility of his department and the Government for this new form of poverty which, I understand, counselor, is becoming structural. Although he recognized that it was up to him to try to minimize it, he did not say what they were going to do. It was limited to indicating that they would wait until the end of the year to prepare the new study on poverty and inequalities. What my group does today is, once again, to shed light on a matter that you do not seem to want to talk about or address. And I do not understand it, frankly, Mr Councilman, because that is what we have to do in this Parliament, to address and to ask what we are going to do with this. Because you, where you compare unemployment data at the beginning and end of your term of office, avoid talking about the work reality, avoid talking about the entrepreneurship that is hiding realities of self-employment from self-employed and self-employed fakes, without rights, without support and without coverage. Where they presume from the impulse of self-employment they hide that many self-employed are workers who are fired by a company – and workers, of course – and are rehired as providers of a service without rights and with much less pay. And when you are reminded of these things you put the worry and complain and blame the Madrid government. What we don't know is what you do or what you intend to do, and that is why this inquiry comes. What we do not know is why, for example, there is no increase in the number of labour inspectors, or in the number of inspectors, that competence that has been so hard for us to achieve, and why there is no plan to detect such false recruitments, this fraud against the rights of workers. As much as you want to cover it with various celebrations, labor poverty exists and has come to Euskadi, unfortunately, to stay, like energy poverty, which has cost you so much to recognize and which has cost us so much to understand that you have to enable parties for those who cannot pay their electricity and gas bills and who cannot benefit from social emergency aid. By insisting they also begin to take this seriously, and let us hope that the same will happen with labour poverty. As we stand, I will recall this concept, which is analysed by the European authorities: labour poverty is the combination of those who consider themselves to be workers, who are statistically those who have been working for at least seven months and in the reference year, and who have incomes below 60% of average income. That is what serves as a reference to the European authorities, but for the Socialists it is a measure that does not reflect reality. It instils a large proportion of people affected by this type of poverty; it is a way of concealing the real situation on the labour market, because, for example, when we talk about households as a unit of measure of poverty we hide the situation of young people, who become dependent, without the possibility of being able to become independent, because living in a home where total income exceeds the defined poverty line does not appear in the job poverty censuses. The same applies to a large proportion of those who work a few months a year, who remain outside the working population and therefore out of poverty studies. In a context where labour flexibility – often forced and unfortunately more and more women's clothing – is becoming more frequent, not taking into account these groups means making up the data. For this reason, official statistics, those on which their study takes hold, conceal a labour poverty that is greater. Not to mention that this situation of dependence, as I have already pointed out, extends to those who go from being self-employed to false self-employed. Because we have said this in a few debates: if you are raising this issue – and also our spokesman Idoia Mendia expressed it in the plenary of general policy –..., it is particularly worrying the incidence of labour poverty within the group with non-standard jobs. A large proportion of people accessing such jobs are forced to do so in the face of the despair of not finding a better option, and – above all, women – the obligation to have access to low-quality jobs condemns them to job poverty. And this labour poverty is, moreover, placing people in the exclusion of work more intensely those who have low educational levels, single-parent households and those who have children in their care, precisely those who have fewer opportunities of origin. We already know that the fault of the proliferation of these types of contracts is Rajoy's labor reform, but in fact we must also tackle it by making use of our skills, by covering the gaps that have been created, because in the plenary yesterday and today we will have heard on several topics how those re-centralizing attacks, those attacks against the Basques and Basques that so many headlines offer, have possible answers, and we in Euskadi have a way to act. I have quoted you from the Labour Inspectorate to avoid fraud against working people, but I can quote you from the competences in active employment policies. I know that it is not a matter on which you are particularly pleased to speak at this time, given that it is falling, but, well, I understand that the inability of your Government to order Lanbide's tasks has, unfortunately, become evident. And it's obvious – and I'm sorry to have to remind you – that what the PNV in the opposition said was fixed in four months, is now not being able to fix in four years; so you have ample margins to address this issue. We have a capacity to explore, a Statute to express, an Economic Concert to take advantage of, and many people in this country willing to address bolder strategies than accounting each month for the number of unemployed people and the number of recipients of guarantee income. What we are interested in today is whether, despite the fact that there has been an express mandate since November 2014, which they have not fulfilled today, it is the intention of the Basque Government to implement this Basque strategy to combat labour poverty before the end of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u100	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u101	The chief physician, the chief physician, the congressman, the good day again. I'm here to give an answer to one of the paradoxs which now is taking place in the world. Within the many paradoxes brought to us by the present world, the economic moment and the labour market, one is certainly that of labour poverty. Where employment has historically ensured social integration and has been its guarantee, it has now ceased to be so. We don't want it, but we can't deny it, it's here. We are now surprised, as much of the analysts in the world of employment – at least those who intend to try to fix it for the most vulnerable groups – are surprised when we see that it cannot be removed from poverty despite having work integration. We can and must say, if we do not play a blind political short-lived, that whoever has solutions will contribute them. They will be very welcome, because I am very afraid that it is not an easy reality to understand and less to solve with old mechanisms. Eduardo Galeano, author dear to many of us, said: "Now that we knew the answers, the questions have changed us." Horrella da da, nahi éta ez. And Ulrich Beck said 20 years ago, that the West's labor world was going to be troubled by what he called the Brazilianization of the West, an argument he maintained by saying that it was more likely, as we are unfortunately seeing, that Brazil's working conditions were going to be exported to Europe and to industrialized contexts, rather than the opposite, which is what we all wanted, that it was not seen as credible that the guarantees of Europe's labour regulations were moving to Brazil. In this world of allocated competitiveness, radical technologicalisation, process automation, employment will fall. Today I have just given the data for the last quarter of PARA: in the annual 8,700 more occupied, fortunately, and yet 25,000 fewer unemployed, also fortunately, but let's look at what difference, what difference. If someone has a magic wand, which please show us, we would be happy to use it. This Brazilianization of the West, this South Africanization, this southernization of our North, this phenomenon that has received many other names today, tells us that it is not easy to face a situation that particularly affects, as you have pointed out, Mrs Sarasua, the younger generations, women with a desire for emancipation, which also ends up conditioning much of the most decisive demographic behavior for a society that is increasingly ageing like ours. Who wants to have children in this situation? Who can have them? Somehow we have a difficult present and an uncertain future, I will not deny it, because this is the real situation. In a previous question, we were asked whether it was necessary that the measures should be applied to a decent opposition, pay, and state of business should be attended with, before the law shall be completed. Something was accepted yesterday. We then said, and today we continue to say, that we obviously take measures, measures of two kinds: on the one hand, by reducing what is strictly labour poverty both through different programmes of activation of people who are at risk of exclusion and through the whole employment policy. And, certainly, exclusion policies are not a disaster in Lanbide, they are not, as many other things are not – at least in this we do not fail – in their two facets of investment: economic investment and, specifically, social investment. With regard to social investment, you know, Mrs Sarasua, that the group of employed persons is one of those who, unfortunately, also benefits from the income guarantee system (IRG, CVP and emergency aid). That is why, first of all, we have had to ensure that the social protection system is maintained or that we have to ensure that it is maintained and maintained, especially by the GIR, defending it against the obvious attacks that we have also suffered in recent times, defending it, analysing it and correcting it in some respects, but defending it. With regard to the group of employed persons who need social benefits, we have data from surveys, both of social services and of social needs, which show that 3.2% of households with employed persons have at some point acceded to some social protection during the twelve months before. Son of a bitch, bad guy. This access shows high stability, with oscillations between 3.1 % in 2006 and 3.6 % in 2010. Again, in this case, we can see the differences, obviously, depending on the level of occupation: in the case of households with a stable employed person, the proportion of households with access to the social protection system is 1.8 in 2010 and 2014, below 2.3 in 2006. We're fine there; we'll never be fine until we get to 0, but, well... Second. In the case of households with unsteady employment, access to the protection system is much higher, 15.2 in 2014, which clearly exceeds 10.8 % in 2006. We're wrong. Three. Clearly, after households with all the unemployed, unsteady occupied households remain in any case as a second group with greater access to the protection system. Four. In absolute terms, however, the population in inactive households outperformed it in 2014. Of course. In fact, five, a striking feature of recent developments in access to the benefit system is the loss of importance of all households of the occupied population among the population benefiting from the system in 2014. For the majority group in 2006 and 2010, their weight is reduced to 23,7 % in 2014 (formerly the majority). However, Mrs Sarasua, we know that at this moment there is a profusion of reports from different entities, from many, institutions that measure or try to measure with greater or lesser fortune the poverty resulting from the crisis situation that we have been suffering in recent years, which we do not need to measure, because we touch it. Sometimes, the findings of these studies are partially reflected, even interested, because situations of real poverty are mixed with situations of risk, without informing the method used to measure it. It is not the same to use one method as another, one measurement as another; it is not the same to be in poverty as to be at risk. With the data I have given you on access to social protection it is notorious, it is clear that situations of poverty have increased as a result of the crisis; we are not going to deny this reality, I do not deny it and I will not deny it. We will state that this is a reality against which we have to fight. I have to say that we can do more; that we have done something, that we have done enough. I'll even say we do what we can, but what we can never be enough until we're done with it. But the signs of the times are sometimes what they are, and the principle of reality is what it is. We cannot change the world; we can try to change some things that affect us, and in this the signs are very negative. I would agree with you, Mrs Sarasua, in trying to modify them, in trying to change them and that this is not the way it is presented to us. But Euskadi is too small for us to be able to change global behaviour, which affects us so brutally, above all, the most vulnerable sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u102	Thank you, chief physician. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u103	Dear Counselor, you make me very concerned. Today I see you especially pessimistic; apart from the data, it is as if you were appealing to miracles. I understand that we are in the Basque Parliament and that you are the Basque Government, with your powers and transfers, which you have to manage, and of course that I, if I had the magic wand, or in my group we would have the magic wand to put an end to labour poverty, of course, we would have used it long ago, because that is what this is about. But it is not that this parliamentary group, now that you know the answer has changed the question, no, it is that you do not answer the question we have been asking you for a long time. I am not telling you to do a miracle, nor your Government; I am telling you that, given what was discussed here in the 2014 plenary, that report that you have presented, if you are thinking of developing a Basque strategy to combat that labour poverty in the competitive field that we have, because, obviously, we have to go further. I've been reading quite recently on this issue, and I've been reading a UPV document that I found interesting. It's from 2014, September, and it talks about job poverty and says very interesting things. He says that labor poverty needs to be analyzed from various definitions, and that it needs to be analyzed with the implications it has for the visibility of the working groups who are unable at this time to live from their work independently and to support their families. That's all that's important. It is true that we cannot change the world, but we have to change our destiny, because our destiny is the destiny of future generations, who are going to enable us to maintain the welfare state and build the future of this country, Mr. Counsellor, and there we must be strictly ambitious. There is a need to differentiate between labour poverty and poor workers whose employment has a low wage, and analysis of labour poverty must be done on an individual basis and complemented by the situation in Basque households today. You will know the socio-economic memory issued by the ESC in 2015, and, well, I think it shows the effects of the crisis in the Basque Autonomous Community. I've summed it up. It gives several things, some are in negative and others are in positive, but the negatives are much, much bigger than the positives. It says: "Only 5% of the contracts entered into are indefinite; temporary contracts increase and partial recruitment doubles the pre-crisis figures, with an average of 32 days per contract". Counselor, 32 days on contract. "In addition, wages are lower. There is an increase in the number of people with long-term unemployment who have exhausted their unemployment benefits", another negative factor. "Unemployment among young people under the age of 30 has increased fivefold since the onset of the crisis and is far from the European Union's reference countries", another negative factor. "The spending on social protection has contributed to reducing poverty by around 40%," that's what we're going to take for granted. "We are facing an absolute demographic loss aggravated by the reduction in the working age segment of the population and the progressive increase in the elderly." Kontuz! "The difficulties in reconciling work and family life are increasing, constituting a hindrance to birth," he said. "On the other hand, life expectancy in Euskadi has increased, but at the cost of greater disability and dependence, highlighting the need for public policies that promote active ageing, which could mean a niche of economic activity." And there may be the Basque Government. In this context, active employment policies become even more relevant as a key element for access to the labour market and the achievement of social welfare, so his Government cannot and should not view Lanbide as an agency that manages only social benefits. This government must see Lanbide – and you have to turn it around, because you have had time and you have to seriously raise it, and this is an opportunity that you have right now – as a public employment service that offers guidance and work mediation. Here you have the extended hand of the Basque Socialist parliamentary group to present this Basque strategy to fight against labour poverty and to analyse what things have to be changed from this Parliament to the future. Eskerrik asko, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u105	Making a Basque employment strategy as understood by this Government will not be possible before the end of the legislature. Principle of reality. This does not mean that throughout the entire legislature this Government has not had programmes and plans that act against labour poverty. I am not saying or saying that it can be and must be interesting to bring it together in a strategic plan. But I would like to continue to focus on data and measures from a more proactive position. I must once again point out that the policy of support for the occupied population of the GIR focuses not only on combating poverty, but also on facilitating incentives for employment and ensuring higher levels of well-being for our people. Secondly, I have to say that an increase in the number of beneficiaries of RGI, PCV and AES benefits does not mean an increase in labour poverty, it means that we are facing a situation that has arisen. Thirdly, at the same time, however, it must be borne in mind that the dynamics of the production system, in particular through the increase in involuntary part-time work and wage stabilization, can encourage an increase in groups potentially benefiting from GIR and other benefits from the Basque system of protection. All the data you have given us here, in this rostrum, Mrs Sarasua, are true, but where is there less inequality in the Spanish State? Where? Fourthly, in periods of commute such as the one we are experiencing, it is likely that the most precarious forms of temporary and low-paid recruitment will increase, resulting in increased demand for access to the system by households of the occupied population. And lastly, fifthly, we have made improvements in social emergency aid, increasing its budget allocation, also thanks precisely to the amendments that you have introduced. But, in any case, when it comes to Lanbide I have to tell you that this week we have been unfortunately news about one aspect of Lanbide, but certainly not about the fight against labour poverty, which brings us into question here, not certainly because of this, in which we have made a good journey; better, but a good journey. With regard to long-term labour measures, we are implementing an employment plan that will ensure the maintenance of thousands of jobs and the creation of new jobs. And as I have already made progress in my committee appearance on 20 April 2015, there, in that committee, by the Department of Employment and Social Policy, I believe we have given extensive information on our plans, on 89 actions we are trying to implement, which we launched during 2014 and which resulted in the creation of 11,000 jobs, helping to maintain 50,000 jobs and improving the training of 85,000 people, of whom 1,800 were able to have their first work experience thanks to government programs. The studies we have conducted from the Government indicate that 127,399 people are in real poverty, out of a total of 247,000 in a state of lack of well-being. Less than half, or just half. The data from the 2016 poverty survey that we are going to present at the end of this year will help to check whether the assumptions I have launched today are confirmed or not. And finally, Mrs. Sarasa, I'd like to have a reflection from the Ulrych Beck Sociologist I was talking about in the first place. Beck says that in this context where economic security policy increases, the lack of security will be the endemic characteristic of life in the future. And he's not cool, as you know, but that's what he tells us. We have a difficult challenge before us, a popular challenge, which we shall not be able to solve in this law, because it is a constant marathon which we have before us. Everyone joins in this marathon, with us, with everyone, with all the political teams, with all the society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u106	Thank you, chief physician, time is up. fourteen points in theme list: "Interregation, the parliamentary law of the Belsen Rock grove, made for the head of education, the policy, and the Cultural Division, to interrupt Lomce's app in the plans of the Government of the Urkullus." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u107	The steps made in the Basque Country for an independent, eucalyptic, public system have been a great many. There's an education unit in our house that's been totally active in that direction. Inclusive school, cogitative, and integrated school, we have the unit of education that has done a great deal of work in defence of the community's euphort, and for all the students' euphoration, and for the choice of equity, equity, hezinity, personal curriculum, and the defence of educational quality. Thanks to this industry and commitment, among others, it has been more than once opposed to the attacks which our education system has received, to many attacks. It's done a lot, but there's a lot to do. When we say LOMCE is the greatest strike of education in the past few years, we're not saying anything new. I am not going to prolong it, but I shall mention, this time, that the institution of education is taking place in the hands of the law, and that the struggle is taking place in a very important manner in order to face the attacks. The most significant was the general plan made in front of the third-class examination of the EDU. Even this year, there are dozens of schools and families that won't do that test. Good luck to all of you! Good for them, not because they're planning an empty test. No. It's good to hear it 'cause they're dealing with LOMCE' and they're dealing with its euscal application. Yes, Mrs. Uriarte, because they're also facing Hezier. You introduced him to New York like 2020. Although, at first, it was composed of pretty words, the new Hezie 2020 frame is not a useful way to face LOMCE, it has become an application tool for the LOMCE application. There was little doubt, but it was clear that the resumes were discussed. Today, New Year's plan for 2020 LOMCE's program is the Araban, Uska, and Gipuzian. The science of education has for the most part spoken in the same way, and therefore, in regard to this, we ask you to give up these curricial decrees of Hetrice. In the eyes of the decision that M. M.M. has made in the course of this year for a third-class study, a number of professors of education have made a complete opposition. A month ago, on the 16th of March, ELA, LAB, STE-EEEY, Courtion and UGT unions, who have 100% of educational workers and professional representation, all together, made the press scene. Three obvious messages were made: they appeared against the examinations we are speaking of, and declared to be going to push the plan; they charged the Board of Education with all the care they accused you of having been accused of having been guilty of as chief of the departments; and finally declared a system of evaluation. And they talked very clearly about this, too. On this Wednesday they were at the Board of Education, and took advantage of their presence to confirm everything here mentioned, to speak for a long time on the education system of the injurious consequences of LOMCE and Heziber. And they are perfectly right, and we agree with what they have said. The Board of Education, acting in a most careless manner, has passed the responsibility of the decision of examination to the schools, without publishing any official writings which make it clear, causing trouble and doubt in the schools. And in front of this, the workers and operators of all schools, public and compact, all these unions are called in order to avoid these examinations. But they were not the only ones: The founder of the Platforms is a long time backing that way, and the E.H.I.H.G. community (the parent union of public election) or the creation, or the other, have expressed its entire disagreement with the decision taken by the chief physician, and have called it not to do so. And it's not acceptable that the Board of Education has passed that responsibility to the schools. Is the chief physician conscious of the consequences? Why are you making that decision? In the name of autonomy, as we've heard before? Lying: schools don't need autonomy to pass over the decisions that they don't want to take. Autonomy is another thing, and schools need other things. And meanwhile, on April 5 at the Congress of the Congress of the Spanish District, the procedure of breaking up the applications' calendars was accepted in the parts not applied to LOMCE. Not enough, but it's a starting point, so our team voted for it in Madrid. But that does not affect us with the principle of sufficient reason, at least no influence at all. Why do we say that? Because the Board of Education has already done and applied what LOMCE says. What does that mean? Well, it's been picked up in Education. The examinations of our students, for instance, are clearly explained in the novel: In the third grade of high school, fourth grade, sixth grade, second level of DBH, fourth grade and second grade in High school. This is, although at best the accepted members of Madrid went on, and we'd continue on with all the tests received in the New Hezi curriculum papers that haven't been applied to OLMCE. And that's another question. Do you think we'd continue or cancel the New Hezier who's been picked up in the curriculum papers? Yesterday, Radio Basque, you said the sixth degree test won't be proven. That our frame is new, we'll decide our evaluation as and when to do it. And that's not true either, Mrs. Uriarte. You're lying! You can't keep saying one thing and another, or say something different, and where! I mean, yesterday you say this, but when we receive our reply, you know this saying on the answer sent to you and to the schools: "Where is the origin of sixth class examination at LOMCE's regulations? The answer was: "Seternal evaluation is the origin of Educational Education in New Heci New 2020 Plan." So, what's the meaning of what I said yesterday? What's the connection with this? None! Number two, 13th. question: "When is the exam to be tested, the sixth grade? The answer was: "After the election design has completed. Design is planned for next year's learning. Question 14: "Which school is the sixth grade exam? The answer was: "In primary school with sixth grade teams." What's this got to do with what I said yesterday? None! You'll have to light it up! We don't wonder at the fact that we're angry at colleges, that it's a hell of a mess, that it's terrible, fear, etc., and so on, in front of all this. They don't know what they're supposed to listen to. The evaluation system, Madame Prect. We talked about it a long time at the Board of Central and Education, and it was very interesting to have an education condition. And the evaluation system is conditioned from top to bottom by our education system. And therefore, as has been said before, the question of profoundness is not a proof, or a scheme of proof. That's what we need to do to protect the educational system, and that's what we're talking about. And those who desire to complete and develop our educational system, who defend the whole power of deciding it here, we cannot allow ourselves either LOMSCE, New, or Education Department, or the policy and path which this head of the department carries. And today we want to talk about it. After all, in Madrid, you voted to stop LOMCE's calendar. What does that mean in our house, here? What about the New Hezier? What, with the curriculum check? What, with the evaluation systems? What are you going to do? And do you intend to put all this together once and for all, to do it with all the agents and the media of education?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u109	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Mrs. Arroy, you're saying that in the Basque Country, in the past few years, there have been a lot of initiative in dealing with LOMCE. You're right, I absolutely agree. There have been a number of initiative to face LOMCE. But you ought not to forget that the majority of these enterprises, the leading men, and the interesting, have been us. It was Euko. Since 2012, when the contents of LUMMCE's project were known, every step he took in the transfer, we confirmed and confirmed his dislike of the project. We have several times given the reasons for our LAMCE's opposition, and today I shall briefly remind them: LAMCE does not respect the historical jurisdictions of the Esquimian Esquimia in the educational field, and LOMCE does not possess enough social and political consent to ensure the stability of the education system, and the ends which LOOMCE plans are already overrated in the Euskade. The only thing which he seeks is the centralization and homogeneization of the different systems of education in the State. And for all that, it's completely against "ModalMCE." I've always said, and I'm going to say that in an obstinate way, to protect our education system, and to oppose LOMCE, we've used all the tools, resources, and roads we've been up to now, and we're going to use them again. Like I said, there's been a lot of funk against LOMCE and the initiatives taken for our education system. Let's make a light stew. In my first public scene, when he was a chief physician and a few hours later in Madrid, I introduced the rating and inferiority of the government that preceded LOMCE. From there we had two possibilities: publicly reject that bill and wait for its approval with arms, or vigorously reject the bill and continue to fight. And, as you know, we chose the second option. Not because we believed that we would succeed in convincing then Minister Wert, nor because we sinned naively, but out of responsibility. It was and is our duty to persevere, to dialogue and to do everything in our power to defend our educational system and our competences. In this way, there have been several meetings in which we have participated: bilateral commissions, sectoral conferences, sectoral commissions. In all of them we have shown our frontal rejection of the law. Meanwhile, we have continued to work to improve our educational system and try to minimize the impact of LOMCE, using all possible avenues to do so. Thus, on February 25th, 2014, the Council of Government decided to allow the introduction of a resource against the LOMCE Law. Instead of going directly to the Constitutional Court, we decided to make an additional way, to use all the means and instruments that were in our power. We now began to negotiate with the Spanish Government, by setting up the mechanism of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which is predicting in article 33.2. So that's where you get all the points you've done because of the great work you've done: to treat language, to acknowledge the force of the School Council, and our competition in an official manner. There have been partial agreements, as far as our jurisdictions are acknowledged. It is another thing, that the central Government has continued its course against the opinions of all, which, in solitude, in weakness, conceals itself behind its own majority, and yet, therefore, the struggle is not yet over. Meanwhile, we've been working on the way to the protection and improvement of our education system. Building on the experience accumulated by the education system over more than 30 years, the government programme and the strategic objectives set out in the European Education and Training 2020 framework, the Government has worked and continues to work together with the educational community to consolidate, through the Heziberri 2020 Plan, a Basque education system that will develop its educational skills as much as possible through proposals with sustainability and legal certainty. In this regard, I must stress that this Government will never put our student's academic career at risk. This party is very important to us. This laugh will never compromise the academic career of the student. Of course, a student is the center of our education system and the ultimate goal. Consequently, as the responsibility of protecting the student is ours, we have plunged into the whole legal prosecution. We proposed three projects and arranged to achieve the quality and excellence of the educational system. We have made the first and second plans of the plan in a great measure. In fact, the frame of the pedagogic model of education is ready, and the curriculums of education and children are already admitted. However, the Spanish Government has opposed the basic curriculum and has given us a demonstration because we do not fill LOMCE, that is, because we've been in favour of our education system. But we go our way. We've already prepared a plan of improvement which is foreseen by the decree of basic education. By this work, during the increase of the New Year's Plan, that is to 2020, education activities will be arranged and adapted for the sake of our system's quality: the preparation, the inclusive education and diversity of education, the return to eloquence, the educational and the technology of information and communication, evacuation and investigation, and the introduction of public schools into the autonomy. These are the six strategic furrows we have to improve the educational system. As you can see, one of those strategic furrows is an evaluation. Evaluation is an essential tool for the improvement of our education system. In fact, the student's competition level, the general state of schools and educational system is needed to design education policies, prepare strategies, so that schools can review and rebuild their improvement plans... In short, to build an educational system of quality. It's funny: When we did a dignostic system of education to prepare the improvement plan, the PISA, TIMSS, and evagnostic evaluation system was underlined among system powers, because the results and the data are very useful then, and you are opposed to the evaluation system that you want to push? Uncomprehending, really. Mrs Arrondo, "What is not defined cannot be measured, what is not measured cannot be improved, and what is not improved is always degraded." The British physicist and mathematician Lord Kelvin said that, and I sincerely believe that he was quite right: what is not measured is not improved. Therefore, one of the important challenges for the improvement of the education system of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, always in continuity with the lines developed so far, is to promote a system of evaluation of students that is consistent with the educational pedagogical model of the Heziberri 2020 Plan, and that is what we are working on, although you are working to torpedo our efforts by hiding in the LOMCE. We have said loud and clear on more than one occasion that this Government is against the invalids. In July 2015 I told the minister that in order to speak he had to keep in a drawer the project of the Royal Decree of the Revivals and not make any other normative development. I reminded him of it just two weeks ago. At this last meeting I also called on the Minister for the policies that are re-centralizing and protecting our competences that they are implementing. And this is still our position. This same week, more specifically yesterday, we were called to a technical meeting for the processing of the real decrees of the invalids, to which, of course – it could not be otherwise – we have not gone. That's our position in front of LOMCE, Mrs. Arrido. We've said it clearly and distinctly over and over again: We're against LOMCE and we'll go on with all the measures and possibilities that are in our power to prevent LOMCE's influence or damage. For our education system. Hori da gure jarra eta gure apure bromoa. "Was it gold, zer?" galdetuko diguzu, bai, lehen esan duzun bezala. On 5 April, Congress adopted a bill calling for the suspension of the implementation of LOMCE as a first step towards the drafting of a new basic education law with a majority consensus. This Government welcomes this, of course, but my question is: and now, what? Do we relax and cross our arms thinking that everything is already done or do we continue to work as we have done so far in defense of our interests? In other words, our students continue to prepare themselves, and we continue to provide them with the necessary tools for quality education. I hope we can soon see the LOMCE repealed. I assure you that I will be the first to celebrate it, but that should not affect our work to improve our educational system, in accordance with the framework of the educational model of the Heziberri 2020 Plan and the decrees that develop it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u111	You've told me today too, Mrs. Orart, that you're more and more than anyone, and that you're doing everything that's in your power. And besides, you said something else today: That you've done most of the work to face LOMCE. And you've put down your initialized resource as an example, you've mentioned "para minimizar el impo de la LOMCE." And you don't see any connection between what LOMCE says and what develops Heziber? Where did Heziber get his third-class evaluation systems, third-class exams, sixth class? You didn't answer me, about the sixth grade, the relationship between what you said yesterday and what you sent to the school and what you sent here, because they're completely opposite. As we have said, let us pass through and speak plainly of other things: Be against LOMCE, don't be like what we're doing. We can't stop to stare at Madrid, no doubt. That's why we need our tools to regulate our education in an independent manner. And we must have tools, others, to regulate the proposals we have just mentioned on this Board of Education, to make our own rules, to answer the requirements of reality, and to those that are required. And among these, for instance, there is a system of evaluation, a system of evaluation mentioned by you. I said: A system of evaluation conditions everything from top to bottom and lower in education system and everyday life in schools. And it's essential that it's essential, that's why it's necessary to penetrate into the subject. But, to evaluate, it is always evaluated in the education system. Even before you were the head of the department, the evaluation existed, even before the novel, and even before LOMCE. There are many ways of understanding the evaluation, and there is no conformity to it at present in the community of education, so we must arrive at it. But what you did in Hexion is put it right on LOMCE. Look, I'll give you an example. If you put the evidence on level 2, 3, 4, and 6, DBH, 2nd, 4th, and Batxier to what do the schools apply? I want you to get those tests ready. And those evidence are standardized. That's why we say he conditiones the entire educational system. There's a second thing I'd like to tell you, too, today: You often say that you're doing all this together with the education experts and the average education teams. And this very week, too, it was not clear to this Chamber of Investigation. With unions you're not doing any interaction with this subject, but not only with unions. nor of other operators, because there is no consent, no consent with the New One, there is no consent. With secondary evidence, there's no agreement with what's to be done from now on. So we ask you, for once, to develop our education system, by pushing it together, as you intend to do or continue something new, and to-day say that you are opposed to LOMCE and that you are doing everything you can and say to the minister. No, first we need a wide agreement, a vast deal of agreement, including all other professors, parents, and operators, to regulate and protect our educational system. And that's what we're asking you to do. And that doesn't mean he's asking today to cancel the news of the Hericion curriculum. You say in your letter, "6th grade evidence will be... "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, not as LOMCE says, "they will be done because Heziber says so." And yesterday you say we won't get proof of 6th grade. That's not what you said. This year, we'll prove it every year. We've got to go another way, Mrs. Chief.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u113	Mrs. Arrido, the same question, the same answer. And don't interpret me when I say my words, because I've been working on Hezion again and again, and I'm not gonna repeat it again. What are your own rules? As for the evaluations, I want to illustrate several points because the information you and many other operators are not correct. And society is not to be met with. The Board of Education sent all the specific information from our own evaluation system to the directors of the schools in February. Besides, we published that information on our website to be available to all of us, but apparently you don't want to understand it or get another interpretation out of it. But don't worry, I'll explain to you the main features of the evaluation system we're proposing right now. These are them. Improvement: the fundamental objective of the evaluation is always the improvement, both of the pupils and of the educational centre, as well as of the Basque educational system in general. The evaluation has never been used or can be used to establish rankings. Complementarity between internal and external evaluation: the educational framework of the Heziberri 2020 Plan proposes the evaluation of each of the basic competencies. Through external evaluation, not all basic competencies can be evaluated, some can only be assessed through internal evaluation; therefore, proposals for improvement by schools must be made taking into account, in a complementary manner, the results of external and internal evaluation. Consistency: this is an evaluation that is fully consistent with the educational model. It is therefore a competency assessment and takes as a reference the exit profile to be achieved by the student at the end of each stage. In addition, evaluation is an inseparable element of the rest of the curriculum elements that form the pedagogical educational model. Innovation and challenge: one of the most outstanding features of our educational system is its ability to move forward seamlessly and always taking into account the long and fruitful path that it has taken. The competence assessment proposed by our educational model is one more step, innovative and focuses on evaluating cross-cutting competences. And last but not least, responsibility and cooperation: the evaluation model proposed by our pedagogical educational model is a main task of the team of teachers, but it is also a shared responsibility of the entire educational community (teacher, student, family and Department of Education). This shared responsibility entails the necessary cooperation of all the actors involved. Responsibility and concert, Mrs. Rockon. That's what we're asking right now, not to help the government, but to defend, protect, and enhance our educational system. That's our wish, our challenge and our goal. When I speak of responsibility and alliance, I think of what is happening about third-rate evaluation. This is not the best responsibilities and interactions of yours. You criticise several aspects of this evaluation and you're trying to prevent schools, teachers and families against this evaluation. Why? Actually, I don't know. But yes, I can tell you why this evaluation is so important. It's not just a political decision. This decision is based on the point of view of education experts, a decision based on pedagogue. First of all, according to the New Year's Plan 2020, because in the middle of the First Education and the middle of the stage, it's predictable to make a diagnosis of interiors, with the following purpose: Getting to know the status of the learning process and making a plan to improve it based on the results. This evaluation is performed in all schools, and the design depends on them. That doesn't mean, as you say, we leave all the responsibility to them. No, as I said before, responsibility is shared. For this reason, from the Board of Education, and more accurately, they have had information and help from ISEI-IVEI's accounters and examiners of Education. And we must make it clear that this evaluation serves only for the improvement of students and schools. Hence, the results will not be published, nor will they have any academic consequences to the students. As I said, 3rd School School. it is an open, flexible, internal evaluation. In it, according to his autonomy and organisation, and the decree given by the curriculum of the basic education, each school may choose between several options the development of the evaluation, which is always adapted to the necessities of the school, to its characters, and to the product of curriculum.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the company of Rosa Fresno Asensio Asensio, a member of the team of the Security Department, a special service to treat victims of machista violence." Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u115	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, there are many occasions when groups and different social actors are interested in policies that guarantee women's freedom. We have a broad awareness of the need to comprehensively combat gender-based violence, but we have differences in the measures to be taken. As a result of these continuing concerns, Erne appeared in a parliamentary committee on 16 March and confirmed a fact that we believe to be very serious to the Socialists: she confirmed that women who are being attacked or who feel threatened and go to a police station outside the established hours are in the absence of specialized units in gender-based violence. I asked him for an explanation for this and he didn't answer me. That is why I want to ask you again today whether assaulted and threatened women have 9 to 2 and 4 to 7 Monday to Friday to seek protection and security. Violence suffered by women has no office time and can occur at any time, day and time. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, to be sure, tell me whether all the police stations in our Community have a specialized service for the care of victims of male violence, in all the police stations, during 24 hours, seven days of the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning. Mrs Fresno, look, on the basis of the explanatory statement you make in your question, I have to tell you that it has drawn my attention to the fact that the representative of Erne spoke at the appearance you mention of male-based violence in general, which is what you are also talking about, when referring to cases of gender-based violence and domestic violence and to the hourly attention we give to these cases. Because the shade is important, isn't it? The concept of sexist violence is broad, broader than that of the specific service – and I repeat, specific service – that Ertzaintza offers to cases of domestic or gender-based violence. In these cases, we are talking specifically about the attention given to those crimes committed against women by their partners or ex-partners and to victims of domestic or family violence. A consolidated service subject to continuous improvements, a service that is perfectly defined, supported by evaluation methods developed by the Basque Institute of Criminology of the University of the Basque Country and attended by staff who have received specialized training in the subject. At present, and as of 18 April, the Ertzaintza handles 4,661 cases involving 5,296 persons. The level of satisfaction of the surveys to which the victims themselves respond is an average of 8.5 out of 10. There is no problem, therefore, of caring for victims, there is no problem and much less is an issue of office hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u118	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u119	Counselor, you haven't answered what I asked you. Indeed, I was asking you whether in all the police stations of our Autonomous Community 24 hours a week and 7 days a week there are specific units to deal with the issues of gender-based violence. Of course, the Socialists have a difference with their government from the very beginning. We have been demanding, without wanting to attend, that what is needed is a single window, a coordination between all the institutions – local, outside and autonomous – so that an assaulted or threatened woman does not have to wander to find protection, that women do not have to know the organization charts of the Administration to benefit from their right to protection, that they do not have to know the hours of a police station, that they know that at any time of any day and at any instance they will find the degree of protection they need at every moment. If we consider violence against women to be a major political and social problem, we should address this claim, and you are committed to organizing it in a way such as this lack of attention in police stations at certain times, or the lack of specific units in gender-based violence. It's "Come back tomorrow" policy, but it's not fair, it's not what we need. It is a policy aimed at the victims, at treating the victims, it is a double suffering for them, aggression and the threat and lack of protection when it occurs, and they need a more effective, rapid, necessary and priority response. We cannot allow women to suffer a second victimization due to the lengthening and complexity of the procedures. Dealing with complaints, accompanying, investigating, controlling the aggressor; this must be done, and it takes time, requires the disposition of all hours of the day, of all days of the week, a unified channel of care for the victims, a necessity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u121	I'm going to keep insisting on it. I assure you, Mrs Fresno, that in all the services offered by Ertzaintza to the citizenry the service of domestic violence, gender-based violence, is one of the best valued by the victims themselves. You asked about the Erne Union's consideration of the schedule of a specific service. There are no problems of hourly care, our police stations are services of care to citizens 24 hours 365 days a year. We deal with all the cases of violence we are aware of and, often, preventively, even ex officio, when there is a risk that this will happen. And, of course, we act whenever we are aware of the criminal acts. But when we talk about this service that Erne criticized and that has motivated his question we are talking about something very concrete, perfectly defined and long worked. We talk about the service of domestic violence, gender-based violence, which Ertzaintza offers to women who have suffered, are suffering or are at risk of violence by their partners or ex-partners, and about the service that we offer to those who have suffered or suffer violence within the family or domestic sphere. Look, I'm going back to the data again. As of 18 April, 4,661 outstanding cases involving 5,296 persons. 22 women wear protective bracelets by court order, 38 go with escort, 94 have counter-monitoring services and 3,151 people have protective orders. Take it out yourself. Gender-based violence, domestic violence, is a radical problem, as you have said, that on the part of Ertzaintza has an integral response. We offer police station by police station a service that is well defined and properly attended, a service that is articulated according to the requirements of those files that are open and according to the protection and prevention needs that victims require at every moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u122	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, "On account of the law enforcement members of the Basque Sisters of Sister Saraz... "of the Security Department, the Reverend Auditius of Laudio, Subventius, and the House of Salvation, and the inspector of the Borders." Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u123	Good morning. Counselor, I go to this stage to ask you about the interinstitutional agreement that you signed in 2013 with the outlaws where the rehabilitation action was envisaged for the SPEIS building in Ayala, with a budget allocation of 1.650,000 euros. Many have been the questions we have asked from 2013 to the date about this unexecuted investment, and their answers are limited only to saying that the project of this performance of the building that houses the police station of the Ertzaintza and the Fire Park since January 2014, with an execution budget of almost 1,900,000 euros, but that they do not intend to bid the work for lack of agreement with the Foral Diputación de Álava. Madam Counsellor, implementing this investment is important, not only because it solves the structural problems that the building itself has been hosting since its construction, but also, and I refer to your words of December 2013, "we are convinced that this investment project will have a positive effect, both on Ayala's economy and on Ayala's employment." That is why I ask you, really, what is the reason for the lack of agreement between the Basque Government and the Foral Diputación de Álava regarding this action of rehabilitation of the SPEIS building of Ayala, so important for our municipality and for our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u125	Mr. President, thank you again. Mrs Sarasua, we have just heard your argument and I am aware that your party has tabled a motion for debate in the next plenary session of the City Council of Laudio on the 25th of this month. And I don't think I'm going to surprise you at this point with information that's already in your possession, surely. But I do believe that your approaches to demanding that the Arab Government and the Arab Foreign Ministry urgently materialize the project, in this obvious requirement you have some important aspect of why we are in the current situation. Indeed, the situation in which today's project for the renovation of the building hosted by SPEIS and the Ertzain-etxea de Laudio is one you have described here in your exhibition: the building needs a remodelling, it needs to face a rehabilitation process that solves these structural and functional problems, and since 2013 there has been a budget allocation of €1,650,000, within the overall framework of that inter-institutional agreement between the Basque Government and the outlying deputies for economic reactivation actions. The Department of Safety and Security undertook to draft the implementation project, a project that was drafted in January 2014 and which was submitted to the Foral Chamber of Álava. And that's where his execution started to be delayed sine die. The Foral de Álava, at that time led by the People's Party, held up – and held up – with radical demands to modify the original project that had little or nothing to do with the strict approach to the rehabilitation of the building. Today, on the contrary, we are closer to starting to definitely address that rehabilitation of the building, adjusting it to the needs of the public fire-extinguishing and rescue service, and to the needs of Laudio's Ertzain-etxea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u126	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u127	Counselor, you're more informed than I am. What I know is that it is incomprehensible that two institutions that signed that agreement in 2013 did not agree to implement an investment project of almost 2 million euros. It is incomprehensible that, after two and a half years, this planned investment has not been implemented, precisely, as you say, to reactivate economically the municipality and the job creation in Laudio, one of the municipalities with the highest unemployment rate in Álava and, I know, in Euskadi. Madam Councilwoman, interinstitutional agreements are important, but they are more important to comply with, and will is needed to do so. The reason for this question is nothing other than knowing the truth, the truth of why the municipality of Laudio is once again a victim of disagreement. We want to know the real intention of the Government with regard to the rehabilitation of a building that has been ill in its structure since its construction. It is obvious and evident that there is a responsibility of his department, both in the rehabilitation of the Ertzaintza and in the Fire Park. But I have to remind you, Madam Counsellor, that the interinstitutional agreement deals solely and exclusively with the performance of the Ayala SPEIS. You have wanted to seize the opportunity and make a two-by-one, but I remind you that the area that covers the Ertzaintza police station is much wider and has more problems than the Fire Department. I know that the problem lies right there, that the project that you have developed covers the surrounding performance of the whole building – facades, roofs, cracks, carpentry and painted interior spaces – and what it does not say is that it does not solve the problems of the SPEIS of Ayala, which presents serious difficulties in the access of the trucks to the hangar, in the emergency exits, in the area of lockers – which is very small and, by the way, only for men – the drains are stuck, the tower and the aljibe cannot be used for the maneuvers, because they are integrated into the building. This is reflected in a letter from the firefighters who sent it to the council, and in their day it was also ratified by mayors and mayors of their sign, who are part of the board of directors of the consortium. The truth is that it is up to you to implement the project and before bidding, it is also up to you to reach an agreement with the Foral Chamber of Alava, and if that agreement has not been given, I understand that it is also your responsibility. And I'd like to know where that 1.650,000 euros that I should have gone to Laudio went. Yes, my municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u129	Mrs Sarasua, rehabilitating the building, adjusting it to the needs of the services it already houses has its demands. In this regard, the Ertzaintza de Laudio police station has no problems in maintaining its current services, its functional and space needs in that building after its rehabilitation. But the change, the resizing and restructuring of a service and, at the same time, making it coincide and adjust it to the process of rehabilitation of the building, can generate new functional and space needs, and this is what the current parliament has already evaluated. We know that it is in contact with the City Council of Laudio, and the process of defining the public fire-extinguishing and rescue service offered from that locality is already very advanced. Therefore, as I told you before, today we are closer, we are closer to starting to definitely address the rehabilitation of the building, and so, once the project has been approached, the building will continue to house the security services that we already offer to the citizens of the Laudio demarcation from the Ertzain-etxea and also those services, those elements of the SPEIS for which the current building will continue to be useful once this work is carried out. And don't worry, because the money is still there for this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u130	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interlation of Laura Garridio Knörr of the Basque Groups to the head of the Medical Department, about setting up a bowl of milk in Estal Autonomy in Erdi." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u131	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. This subject is not new, but we have discussed many laws on this subject, and have also agreed on this subject. Breast milk is the best food for a newborn and is also the best food for babies who may have special needs, such as immature, premature and low-weight children. Infants fed breast milk have a number of benefits, as it contains a wide variety of anti-infection factors, immune cells, lower risk of allergies, reduces the risk of sudden death, reduces gastrointestinal infections, respiratory infections, urinary infections, otitis; therefore, it is a major factor for the further development of babies. We had already had occasion in this legislature or in the VIII legislature to have the appearance of the Mother's Milk Association in Euskadi, where we were told of the benefits and also of the need for the promotion of breast milk, as the World Health Organization itself points out. We have to say that the Basque Parliament has already spoken on this occasion twice: the first pronouncement was in Parliament VIII, when Mr Inclán was a councillor; in particular, on 17 April 2008 an agreement was reached urging the Department of Health to carry out within three months a study on the creation of a breast milk bank for women who, while nursing their daughters or children, wished to donate the milk left over and also to deal with the treatment and conservation of donated milk in order to guarantee the needs of premature children or those and newborns with nutritional deficiencies. When we talk about a breast milk bank we talk about a specialized center, responsible for the promotion, protection and support of breastfeeding and the execution of activities of extraction, processing, quality controls, intermediate milk, mature human milk for its subsequent distribution under medical prescription, as well as training, advising and training human resources, developing scientific research, operations and providing technical advice. There is a Spanish association of breast milk banks, of human milk, specifically, and there are hospitals such as October 12 that have pioneered the establishment of a breast milk bank and other hospitals also in Valencia, Granada, Zaragoza, Mallorca, Extremadura and Barcelona. Well, as a result of that agreement, a study was carried out which analysed at that time the situation, the effects of breastfeeding, economic effects, target population, guidelines for milk banks and also pointed out in some conclusions the benefits of breast milk, and it was obviously found that in Euskadi there was no breast milk bank and the characteristics that this type of installation had to have. An agreement on this issue was reached in the same legislature on 26 December 2013, in which the Basque Parliament ratified the previous agreement of 17 April 2008 on the need to install a breast milk bank in Euskadi to ensure the needs of premature children and even those whose mothers cannot breastfeed them, as well as to enable milk to be donated throughout the Autonomous Community. In addition, the Department of Health was urged to promote breastfeeding and also to install this breast milk bank; in that case, it was considered appropriate at the Cruces Hospital. We in the People's Group, when these initiatives were discussed, have always maintained a favourable position for the installation or for the Basque Government to also take all the measures and actions necessary for the implementation of a health service consisting of a breast milk bank. It should also be noted here that the Spanish Association of Pediatrics, last year, at its annual congress held in Bilbao, called for the creation of an autonomous network in order to give this option to premature children. I believe that the positions are clear, the agreements have also been, even some of them unanimously, and we have reached this point, Mr Councilman, we want to ask you specifically what are leading the Basque Government to delay the implementation of these parliamentary mandates, which, as I have pointed out in my speech, have taken place in different legislatures, and one of them in this legislature. And by the way, of course, let us know how the issue is and whether it is the intention of this Government to definitively install this service in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u132	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good days again. Garrido anderea, strikes to say that I fully share with you the consideration that breast milk is the best food for a newborn, and more when it is a premature newborn or with special needs. It is also a recommendation by both the World Health Organization and UNICEF. Breastfeeding has extraordinary benefits for health, nutrition and child development; it provides all the nutrients, vitamins and minerals a baby needs for its growth during the first months of life without having to eat any other food. The benefit of the mother's milk has been proved, so scientifically it is recommended by the World Organization of Health and UNICEFs. And we, of course, agree in that, perfectly one. As I say, and you have also pointed out, there is sufficient evidence that breastfeeding provides very important benefits, especially for premature infants, and especially within them for those with very low weight, reducing a significant risk of complications (some have been named by you). However, the mother does not always have enough milk, and in these cases the mother's milk can be an alternative. The main recipients of donated breast milk in our environment, as noted, are premature babies, especially those weighing less than 1,500 grams, or those with a gestational age of less than 32 weeks, when their mothers cannot provide enough milk for whatever reasons. As you probably also know, the Euskadi Health Plan 2013-2020 includes among its specific lines and actions – I will tell you, and I read it textually – "Promoting, protecting, supporting maintenance and increasing the duration of breastfeeding for its benefits to both physical and emotional health." In addition, Decree 147/2015, which published this Government last year with the declaration on the rights and duties of persons in the Basque health system, explicitly states in article 9 the right of women to be informed and trained in the matter of breastfeeding, in order to promote their use in child feeding, and also for the first time – and I believe that no other autonomous community in the State has collected it – the right to breastfeed their children in any public space. Because, let us not forget, in the promotion of breastfeeding the fundamental thing is in the set of babies, not only in premature infants; in fact, the majority of breastfeeding policies in developed countries are more likely to encourage breastfeeding and not to be abandoned in normal newborns than in hospitalised premature babies. I repeat: One of our goals is to encourage a mother from birth. The healthy plan, for instance, receives in support of it the exact initiative, as well as in the proclamation of the rights and duties of individuals in the medical system of Euchara. As for the milk bank, as you very well recalled in your question, in April 2008 there was a pronouncement from this House, exactly two legislatures ago. The pronouncement said – and I will read it textually – "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Health..." – then – "...to carry out a study on the creation of a breast milk bank". And as you have acknowledged, the study was carried out and presented in this House, which have put me in doubt as to whether you knew him. Your data and your conclusions did not exactly support the need – at least an objective need – of a project of this kind in the 2008 study, something that I suppose should have taken into account my predecessors in the counseling, both Dr. Gabriel María Inclán and Dr. Rafael Bengoa, when they did not decide to put a breast milk bank in Osakidetza, because, if not, if the decision had been another, today you would not be questioning me. It has also drawn my attention to the fact that in the previous parliamentary term you did not ask the Government for compliance with Parliament's 2008 pronouncement, or when they supported the Government from their group or when they stopped supporting it, but, well, I must admit that I am aware that certain concerns come and go according to whether they are governed or in opposition. But I agree with you on the importance of promoting breastfeeding, you have no doubt. It is also striking that neither your group nor any other – in this you have not been an exception – have tabled any amendments in the budgets in this regard, nor in those of this year, which was already the non-law proposal of the previous year, nor in those of the previous years. As you see, and despite what you say in your inquiry, there is no reason to violate anything; simply, there is no such intended non-compliance. And, of course, I will reaffirm it to you, we have the will to fulfil our duty, and we also have the will to do so with seriousness, rigour and rationality. And this means meeting the non-legislative proposals and the proposals and contributions of this House whenever they aim to improve the quality of the health service we provide to people and are economically viable. In this we are concerned, things must be done properly, and we must first know whether they are really necessary and whether they are useful to society. And here we are. The Health Planning, Planning and Evaluation Directorate of the Department of Health and the Osakidetza Health Assistance Directorate have been working for a few months on a most comprehensive and in-depth analysis of what we are capable of, the different experiences in breast milk banks in our geographical environment, both in the State and in Europe. Because you will not have missed the fact that the examples you have given me today from this rostrum were all partial examples that affected only one hospital. You have not given me any examples of a breast milk bank that covers the set of premature newborns in a community or a country. The study, we'll present it as soon as it's finished. Progress that addresses aspects such as the current situation of breastfeeding in Euskadi, potential demand for users and potential donors for the breast milk bank, the situation, quantity, location and conditions of milk banks in the State and in Europe, procedures related to the operation of such a structure and the different alternatives that we could adopt. It also includes estimates of the number of premature babies we have and also estimates of the number of women potentially donors of breast milk, and of the number of mothers also willing to authorize the administration of their milk babies from another woman, because they are not all. It also analyzes parameters such as utility and efficiency, and, above all, we emphasize equity and accessibility, very important concepts in our conception of health to ensure that there are no territorial inequalities: we are not going to choose to take breast milk the premature ones of Cruces and not those of Álava. We started an investigation long ago so that we could find out if such an initiative is really necessary before we did it. Because before making any decision to deploy a project of these characteristics, we are sure that it shares with us that we must have a solid basis, based on reliable data, in order to make the most appropriate decision for Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u134	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u135	Yes, Mr. Counselor. Well, he told me if he was reading the study. It's just that what I read, part of my first intervention was the study. And, of course, the study should be updated, which will be yours, but I also have to remind you that there is a statement a couple of years ago, of 26 December 2013, where the Basque Government was urged to install this milk bank in Euskadi, in particular, at the Cruces Hospital, but duties were placed on the Government and this Parliament was ratified in that agreement of 17 April 2008. And, look, in the conclusions of that study, it must be said that it is not a very long study in terms of volume of sheets, nor is it very prolific in some issues, or perhaps in analysing some issues that matter would have required, but it was the study that we had at that time. It tells us about the effects of breast milk, which we all know, because you have reviewed them here, about the possible target population, which, obviously, this data, should be updated, guidelines of the breast milk banks, and in the conclusions, of course, it finds that in Basquedi there is no breast milk bank, it also tells us about the characteristics of milk banks, that it could have a great similarity with a tissue bank, the existence of a breast milk bank, which could have very positive effects, but that, indeed, there has not been a serious study on the volume of milk to be needed. I imagine that the study which you are carrying out, which you are shortly going to refer to this Parliament, in view of these shortcomings which are apparent in this first study and which led to the failure to implement a service of these characteristics, can be more conclusive. And, of course, this study, as it was eight years ago, refers to two milk banks: the Bank of Balearics and the Bank of Hospital October 12. In short, Mr Councilman, apart from your telling us that you are preparing a study and that you are going to refer it to this House, it would be useful for you to take a decision on the will of this Government on this issue, and more so when your group has supported these initiatives in this House. I would therefore like to say that, beyond a position of pose, of being in favour of a concrete initiative, we want to know what the real will of this Government is, and, man, it would not be wrong to know further that we are at the end of the parliamentary term. Look, of course, the issues are reactivated when they are reactivated, but there is also a sensitivity now in relation to this issue, there are people who obviously do not understand that, if in many issues we are pioneers, that there is a need and that there could be such a service in Euskadi, and there are also people who are sensitized to this issue who are making a collection of signatures. That is why, beyond you telling us that you are going to bring us a new study, which would be very good..., which, by the way, could have been done before, because we have to say that the initiative was approved in 2013, I want to say that Mr Inclán prepared a study in a few months; I do not think that you are any more clumsier than Mr Inclán, and therefore that study could have brought us a long time ago and we could have gone a long way on this issue, and already have a more clear opinion – at least from the department – as to whether or not you are in favour of installing that service in the Basque Autonomous Community. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u136	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u137	Garrido anderea, the qualifiers of slow or fast are never per se; they are always "slower or faster compared to". Well, you're right, we're taking longer to do the study than it took in 2008. Now, that's not the problem. The problem is, look, we have no doubt about the importance of breastfeeding, we have no doubt about the promotion of breastfeeding. In fact, it is included in the health plan that was made in the first year of the legislature and is included in the Decree on the Rights and Duties of Persons in the Basque Health System for the first time, which is done last year. Probably here is the degree of benefit involved in the cost of breastfeeding promotion measures in normal newborns, with the cost of breast milk promotion for the number of premature infants we have. And I am not going to speak until the study is completed, because, in any case, if it is viable, it will be done, as Parliament has asked, and if it is not viable, then no. What I do advance is that the non-law proposal proposed a breast milk bank for Cruces. I've always been against that. I don't know where it can be located, but in any case, we don't want it to be for the premature children of the Right Margen and Ezkerraldea. If we have to put in a breast milk bank it will be for all low-weight or premature newborns of the whole of Euskadi, which I also believe is the logical interpretation of the non-law proposal that was passed. I'm going to give you some data so you can draw conclusions too. In 2015 – last year – 19,298 boys and girls were born in Euskadi. 71% received exclusively breastfeeding in the first months, a frankly good figure and the best in any developed country, where there are always reasons why not all children have access to breastfeeding. On the other hand, in recent years the number of premature newborns with low weight ranges – in the last five years – from 205 to 212 babies per year. If we didn't just take the low-weight ones and take all the premature ones, we would find that, regardless of their weight, we would be talking about around 279 newborns, which is the figure for 2015. Territorially, 30 in Araba, 60 in Gipuzkoa and 189 in Bizkaia. On the basis of this data, roughly, since 71% of these premature infants are breast-feeding, 71% of their mothers, even if they are admitted to the neonatal unit, will also breast-feed them. And it must also be assumed that even in this percentage of children there will always be a percentage of mothers who opt for artificial breastfeeding before giving their own milk or even before giving another woman's milk. Therefore, we are talking about a target population, user of the breast milk bank in Euskadi, which would oscillate in the whole of Euskadi between 60 and 80 babies a year. Size influences, there are things for which it is a great advantage that Euskadi is a small country and there are others where it is not so much an advantage. In any case, it should remain that 0,3 and 0,4 % of newborns in Euskadi could be customers of the breast milk bank. I insist, the study is not completed, and therefore do not take as conclusive the reflections that I am giving you, I am giving you data. A study was carried out in 2008 – you have it in your hands – and the reflection was that they were not conclusive in favour of providing us with a breast milk bank. I, in what I personally know both the Inclán Councillor and the Bengoa Councillor, am sure that, if the work had been conclusive, either of them would have implemented it in their period. Therefore, let us wait for the completion of the work. The question is whether it really is necessary or not, and at the same time we have to answer where to place it, at what location, so that, if we have to put it, we can guarantee equity in access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u138	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the head physician of the Medical Department, the measures to be taken in the Digestio Service at AUO." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, history repeats itself, the question repeats itself for the inaction of the Basque Government in the lack of action in the Digestive Service of the University Hospital of Álava. There is a conflict, a conflict that you yourself have recognized, you recognized in the commission of 20 October 2004, and the will of the Osakidetza Directorate and the Hospital Directorate also to resolve it. A conflict arising from the unification of the Digestive Service from two hospital facilities in Vitoria (Santiago and Txagorritxu). Seeing not only that the problems persisted but that they were getting worse, we already asked him a question for an oral answer in plenary on 20 February 2015, asking him about the criteria he was going to adopt to solve the situation and the problems in the Digestive Service. By the way, problems arising from poor planning, poor organisation and problems that have clearly affected the quality of service and the environment among professionals themselves. In that reply, you told us that there was a situation to be improved and stayed there, but then we heard a report from the Osakidetza Directorate of 11 May 2015 which clearly confirmed the existence of a clear conflict situation in the Digestive Service, and that the conflict situation dates back to November 2013 and stems from the appointment of a new section chief, how the working environment is deteriorating with impact on professionals and recommended by the Centre's Directorate that appropriate measures be taken to preserve the rights of all professionals. Two years later, Mr. Counsellor, you may say that you have not taken any steps to resolve this conflict, which has become worse and has become worse. We are therefore faced with a problem that has been exacerbated by the inaction and passiveness of his Government in this service, with a specific impact on the quality of this service being provided. But, recently, the Social Division of the High Court of Justice of the Autonomous Community confirms once again the existence of this manifest situation of conflict and controversy in the service, and reiterates once again that no action has been taken. He says that no effective, real and practical measures have been taken to remedy it, and that there has been no preventive, preventive activity, because, if you had taken any preventive measures when you were already aware of that conflict in 2013, you would not have reached the point where risk has been mitigated, and there is talk in particular of psychosocial risks. In addition, the judgment concludes with compensation for the damage caused, plus financial compensation. That is why we are asking you, Mr Councillor, because it is clear that this judgment will obviously be subject to appeal, if you decide to intervene, you have decided it, but what is your assessment of this judgment that clearly comes to say that you have not acted in a conflict that you yourselves have recognized and that this inaction has led to the worsening of the conflict.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u140	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mrs Garrido. Since you have so much information about the situation in the Digestive Service of the integral health organization of Álava, and since you also have the judgment to which you refer, you will have read it and you will have seen that it is very exhaustive. Apart from the two sentences you have read us, I am not going to entertain your lordships by reading many others, but it is very exhaustive. And, of course, you will have noticed that there was a previous sentence that was in first instance favorable to Osakidetza; therefore, without discussing the judge's sentence, there have been disparate criteria in two judges, both respectable. Therefore, I will not deny you that there is a conflict; conflict recognized by Osakidetza, which is not generated. In those places where people work and agree, there are always conflicts. There'd be more to it. Look at you in your own house. But, well, you have to answer it directly. What are we going to do with the judgment evaluation? Well, look, as it cannot be otherwise, full respect for judicial decisions. We'll keep working with people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u142	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u143	Look, Mr. Counsellor, I have very little time, but as a public representative who I am of the citizens, I have the problems of the citizens. And this problem is that it has come to me not only by the people concerned, but by people who use the service who have found to me the decline in the quality of the service because of the lack of action by their department, which is what the sentence comes to say. Don't tell me about the other sentence, which addresses another issue. When there are human relations there may be discrepancies, but here we are talking about conflict. This sentence clearly states that you have done nothing to prevent it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u144	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u145	Garrido anderea, you'd like me to be on the moon, but no. I'm at HUA, I'm at OSI Enkarterri, at Cruces, I'm at OSI Donostialdea, I'm at health centers and I talk and I know more about health professionals than you get. If you have any complaints, I'll thank you personally for trying to solve it. If you have any complaints from users, from users, that is truly our concern, for whom we all work, with conflict and without conflict. Look, as you can imagine – because you have already said this – we will respect the court ruling, but, of course, also in the exercise of our powers and responsibility we will use the existing judicial mechanisms. Therefore, in view of the fact that an appeal can be brought against that judgment, Osakidetza has decided to bring the appeal. The reason for this decision is that the judgment of first instance clearly dismissed the appellant's claims. This rejection, as expressly mentioned in the judgment itself, gathered 63 arguments, 63, which served as the basis for the first rejection. As you will also have read, in the judgment rendered, the second, by the High Court of Justice is credited – and the judge acknowledges this – that there has been no harassment of the plaintiff, and it also says in text that "in the group of qualified professionals there are no hierarchies, but primus inter pairs". And with all due respect to court rulings, in the comprehensive health organizations of Osakidetza there are hierarchies, there are management, there are directions, there are heads of services, there are nursing supervisions, and, to be sure, I repeat again that we scrupulously respect the ruling. Look, I, in addition to HUA, have lived with responsibility in managing the integration of other centers. It is frankly difficult to integrate different services, with different people, with different heads, sometimes with different cultures, which have sometimes competed with each other, which have sometimes competed with each other, and we are very large organizations. We deeply regret and work to resolve the Digestive conflict, which I have never denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u146	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentyth theme in the theme list: "To ask you, María del Carmen Lopriz de Locariz lópez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popula, made of the chief division of the regional politics and environmental politics, about the works of sanitation and supplies which are not made in Araban." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u147	Good afternoon, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen. Several times in this House we have adopted initiatives, usually unanimously, urging the government to implement those agreements it is committed to carrying out the hydraulic infrastructure works in Álava. Today, of the agreements that have been reached, almost 25% have been made, the rest are pending. And our question is whether it is the Government's discretion to carry out the outstanding works.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u149	Good morning. With regard to my question concerning the outstanding supply and sanitation work in the historic territory of Araba, I will give you two important facts. On the one hand, the commitment made by this government in the framework agreement signed with the Arab Foreign Ministry in 2008 was 50 % of 36,720,000 euros, that is, 18,360,000 euros. Well, in this territory only in the area of supply and sanitation, this government has invested 35,766,677 euros in the period 2008-2016, making it almost double the amount to which it committed. If we add to this what has been invested in maintenance – conservation, environmental improvement, restoration of water masses, works for flood prevention, monitoring programmes and studies of water masses, discharges, fires, plans – the amount invested in that period in the territory of Araba by the Basque Government amounts to 55,693,305 euros. This is an undisputed figure that undoubtedly supports this administration's commitment to an unequivocal improvement in the ecological status of water bodies and in the supply and sanitation services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u151	Madam Counsellor, it is the responsibility of the administrations – compulsory, I would say – to implement those infrastructures of supply, sanitation and purification for the population. I am talking to you about the outstanding works of the framework agreements, not other things that you are incorporating to justify what you have not done. Therefore, if we go to the works of the framework agreement, you have not fulfilled 25%; of the works of the framework agreement, I repeat. I don't know if you understand me. In this context of responsibility, the agreements were signed, and, frankly, the entire legislature comes improvising answers. Now you've touched that, but you live in improvisation. And I will stop in the last month and a half, in what you have said, I say you as a counselor, the director of URA and the deputy of Álava, who was part of your cabinet until a year ago. And Mr Álava said that they are going to do a study of the design and feasibility of a new depurator for Salvatierra, as the industrial discharges have collapsed the current depurator. And if the study is favorable, URA will execute the study on the basis of the framework agreement. You in this House at 10 days told us that "Well, ladies and gentlemen, the works are collected in the hydrological plans and will be done..." – that is, they have not been done – "... and we have a deadline until 2027". But then the director of URA came to the General Councils of Álava, and asked about the outstanding hydraulic infrastructures he said the Basque Government will not execute those outstanding works because it would be like putting ferraris for those for whom we do not have money for gasoline, for maintenance or to pay for them. That's what your director said. Those infrastructures, what he came to say is that they are a luxury for Álava, a luxury that we cannot afford because we cannot afford or maintain it. So, counselor, what your director is saying is that we are going to do a reflection on a management model, a reflection that has to be done by the municipalities, the parliament and the government. That is why I ask you, Madam Counsellor, if you are going to carry out the works, because we have been saying for four years that you are going to do it and that the legislature is coming to an end and what you are offering us is a period of reflection; a reflection that comes from 2004, that the first agreement was signed, that we have been promised for 12 years, that you have said as active and passive that these works are in the hydrological plan and that you are not going to do them, Madam Counsellor. And the data you've given us here is from other things. I'm talking about the slope, about what you said is within the hydrological plan and they haven't executed and that's what your director said. Look, an entire legislature lying, dizzinessing the loser, an entire legislature wandering, improvising and in the end doing nothing in Álava of the commitments made. Nothing, absolutely nothing; we have the infrastructure not done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u153	Look, Mrs López de Ocariz, the reality is very clumsy, and we've invested a lot. I have given you the investment figures in my first part, in the first part of this intervention. But it does not mean that and it is no less true that important infrastructures are still needed to improve the current systems of supply and sanitation – indeed, local skills, as you well know. Systems which, in keeping with existing water legislation, must be managed in an effective and efficient manner. And that is why we appeal – I don't know if with the luckiest words at some point – to me and my team, especially in the territory of Araba, to address the concreteness of the model of management and governance of this system in collaboration with the local authorities, who are responsible for maintenance and exploitation. As you know, supply and sanitation infrastructure is very expensive to implement, but no less expensive to maintain and operate correctly over time. We are working and investing in the deployment of outstanding infrastructure. As it cannot be otherwise, we are, together with the Arab Foral Diputation, defining the prioritization of these actions, collected – as I also explained to you on another occasion – in the hydrological plan of the Mediterranean basins in this case – in part also the Atlantic one – which must be committed so that between the administrations we can implement them as soon as possible. The framework agreement to which you refer was that, a framework agreement. It was a framework agreement that should then be followed by agreements, specific agreements with specific funding, depending on the solutions being defined and the technical solutions being determined and always subject to budgetary availability, and as such investments are being adapted over time. And to give just one example, the Spanish state has been committed to Araba for many years the EDAR of the High Nervion, with the collectors and two edares, the dam of Herrerias or Erbi, in one or another alternative, a reservoir in Korrosparri, the supply of Zuia and Urkabustaiz. No news. Nor are these agreements being complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "To question, the parliamentary members of the Eupula team of Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, made for the chief department of environmental and the politics of the locals, the vibrations of the subways passing through the San Ignatium." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u155	I left it on. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Oregi. I ask you a question before the plenary so that, with your words in the parliamentary seat, the neighbours of the San Ignacio neighbourhood in Bilbao, who have addressed the Basque Government among others, can remain calmer and know that their problems arising from the Bilbao metro, from lines 1 and 2 by the way through their neighbourhood, will have a solution, ending with the nightmare of constantly suffering noises, vibrations and cracks in their homes. Perhaps you can today with your answer guarantee them and give them security so that they know that this summer they will be able to be calm and live in peace. The neighbours of San Ignacio, already months ago they undertook a genuine citizen crusade, in which they resorted to all the bodies they considered (the city council, even the European Parliament I believe, even the Ararteko and his government). The neighbors of San Ignacio trust that this time yes, that this time to the third one goes the vanquished, because for already two decades that the metro has been inaugurated, that the metro has been built, is not the first time that they mobilize to complain about the problems they have. The people affected by the subway in San Ignacio remember that their problems started from the beginning and that at that time they already had cracks in facades and had to mobilize and managed to get the Basque Government of that time to commit itself to solving those problems definitively. But today they think that their agreements have been falsely closed, as they have now again been forced to mobilize. In 2008, they also did so, when line 2 was put into operation. Neighbors returned to the load by collecting signatures to re-demand the institutions to solve the problems caused in their homes by the subway. Mrs Oregi, for these neighbours of Bilbao already rains on wet, they are tired, morale is being undermined and it is logical that they fear that this time it will be the final one and they will be able to solve it completely. That's why I ask you what your government has done to solve the problems of San Ignacio's neighbors, caused by the subway vibrations as they pass through this neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u157	Good morning, Mrs. Ruiz. Indeed, we know the problem related to the vibrations of the Bilbao metro at the height of St. Ignatius through our representation in the Bizkaia Transport Consortium, which, by the way, has obviously kept all its members fully informed of this issue. According to the technical explanations provided, this is a problem of premature ageing of a track area, specifically the diversion that alternately directs the trains to line 1 and 2. This detour makes about 400,000 movements a year (more than 1,000 each day) and suffers a remarkable wear and tear. Metro Bilbao technicians and the Bizkaia Transport Consortium have been analyzing this problem in a very detailed way, and have finally opted for the replacement of the track apparatus by another one of improved features with elastic supports, which should solve the problems of vibrations detected. The work to replace and improve the new track and fixtures is currently being carried out by the Bizkaia Transport Consortium. The work began in Holy Week and is scheduled for completion in June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Madame Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u159	Mrs Oregi, I appreciate the explanations. I know that technically it has its complication; in fact, the information I have had access to, I almost understood it. What worries me is the scepticism that the neighbors continue to have, despite the fact that the works are already under way, because the affected collective does not rule out..., seems to maintain its determination to take the courts to Metro Bilbao. And then I wanted to know why that squatting if they're getting to work, that is, what makes them have doubts that these works that are going to be committed are not going to be enough. It seems to them that these are too simple measures for the seriousness of the deficiencies they suffer. Maybe you can clear it up, too. When you talk to them, the truth is that they tell you testimonies that they are inadmissible: to be dining at home and to move your dishes every three minutes in rush hour, so, come on, it has to end the patience of the mildest. They are fissures on foundations... that is, the nature of the drawbacks they have are sufficiently serious to make them rest permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u161	Yes, indeed, Mrs Ruiz, this is work on a complex problem and a complex solution too. As I said before, the technicians of the consortium and of Metro Bilbao have been studying in a very detailed way, and the solution that they have proposed and that is already taking place, as I said, starting this Holy Week and with the completion planned in June, so we trust that it will be sufficient – and the technicians estimate it – to solve the problems that have been detected. It is true that there may be distrust on the part of neighbors or those who are suffering the consequences, because when the discomforts are important and as you have well reflected graphically, it is often difficult then to overcome the mistrusts that that is already going to be fixed. In any case, they are asking us, both you and the neighbors, to ask us for certainties about the solution adopted, and I ask you that we have to rely on the techniques and techniques of Metro Bilbao and the Transport Consortium in this case, trust in your ability and your solvency, because you have the training, training and experience to do it right and to do what is needed after you have done the analysis and after you have proposed solutions. For us, the guarantee is them. In any case, the completion – I insist – is planned for June, and, well, what we will do is monitor that implementation and that, as a result, the results are indeed those that have been expected in the design of this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, that Daniel Maezz Perez, the parliamentary of the EH team, was made for the chief division of the region and of the politics of the land, for the protection of the Gastian Mountains." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u163	Good noon to all, and good noon to the lady. I believe that in all these institutions the Gastine Mountains have been demanded to design the natural park; consequently, on the one hand, the most important institutions in Agra, and the Parliament of the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, has also asked for the protection of the Gastian Mountains. But in front of that, what did you do, or rather, the Oregiites? Well, here too it is: it is accepted, but it is not fulfilled. Yes, but not again in front of a decision from Madrid, no. The Gastine Towns, the General Assembly of the Arabs, and a decision made by this parliament, take you for a walk. And you don't fill it, not what the Parliament says, but what fun said, because there's a document to organize the Natural Resources of the Gaste Mountains, where the best figure is to protect that site is the natural park. But while you're still watching it, you're still watching it. And now we have found that the connection of the high-speed train which binds Burgos and Gastians will pass through the Gastial Mountains, making a tunnel in it, and also a whole piece of earth, proposing it there. And I want to ask you: What is your attitude about? What do you think about building a tunnel where it should be protected? What was your attitude when that project was in front of people? How manylegations did you do if you did? And since when did you know that this tunnel and that fullwork was going to be on the Gasté Mountains?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u164	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u165	Good morning, Mr. Mazzu. The territory of the High Mountains of Gastines was considered as a protected zone of nature by decree called the "Gaseian Mountain Times" Special Conservation, and this decree was published on the October 16th of 2015 at the Euscal Country Authority; and in this rule the measures of preserving this area were established not only by appointing a special field of preservation. On the other hand, in the jurisdictions assigned by the Auraba Fordin, the "Gastic Mountains" has begun to write the instructions and measures for managing the special field of preservation. Pre-eating information of the document, which has received the initial approval of the Arada Fordunda, ends this year on April 24th, if I am not mistaken this week. During the process of naming the field of special conservation and the peripheral area for its protection spread. Thus, from the point of view of nature, the most important points of the world have been collected within the protected sphere of nature. This is why, besides protecting the value of the field, the prevention was also established in Section 6.2, and 6.3 articles of the Hebitat. It must be stated that this prevention is intended not only in those which require administrative authority, but also in the plans and projects which may have a striking influence on a range of 2000 networks, without taking notice of the limitation of the field. It is therefore intended to improve the maintenance of all the elements and values in the field, and thus to ensure that the high mountains of the Gastries are protected within the scope of natural inheritance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u167	Mrs. Oregi, a little respect, please. I asked you about the 13,000 hectares proposed in your day to protect from the Natural Park of the Mountains of Vitoria, which was proposed by the City of Vitoria, the General Councils of Álava and this Parliament, and you have answered me about the 2,000 hectares that are protecting as a special conservation area, which have nothing to do with the area now affected by the Burgos-Vitoria high-speed train line. If the 13,000 hectares had been protected in the Natural Resources Management Plan of the Montes de Vitoria Park, it would be a natural park and we would have another protection figure to protect against a project that is devastating to the environment. And we would have to make an ad hoc environmental impact assessment on that project, which today we don't have to do because you didn't want the Vitoria Mountains to be a natural park, and we know it, why you didn't: because you knew long ago that there was the Burgos-Vitoria high-speed line; because you knew long ago that there the Basque Government had planned to do two fracking surveys, in that same area. And that is why you have, once again, prioritized the economic interests of some companies, whether they are builders or energy companies, above the environment. Once again the Environment Commissioner of the Basque Government, in the face of a clash between large infrastructures, whether energy or in this case railways, and the environment, once again leaves the environment in second or third level, leaving other interests above the environment. Why haven't they protected the Vitoria Mountains? Have you made any allegations to the Burgos-Vitoria high-speed line?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u168	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Time is up. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u169	Mr Maeztu, I do not know if you know the definition of sustainable development, I do. I don't know if you know the balances and the concertation that is necessary to work in the territory, I do. The difficulties that all this creates. The proposed natural park marked some hectares, as you said, 13 thousand peaks, defined some areas and had been made against all the actors who are in that territory. Within the time frame of the allegations, all the administrative boards – or almost all of them, I do not have the specific data here – asked us to remove them from the delimitation. All the agricultural soils, practically all the agricultural soils between the mountains and the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz, almost to the Zadorra River, were collected in this delimitation. We have discussed this issue a lot in this House (here, in the Commission, etc.). You bring it back now by the high-speed train and by the information study file that was on display to the public – by the way, on display to the public, to all the public – since December 16, 2015. Of course we made allegations! They didn't have to finish the two months he was exposed to the public to let us know and three months or four months after coming here to hold the others to account. Of course we made allegations! We made allegations aimed at protecting the values of the Vitoria Mountains. We send the allegations in time and we hope and ensure that they are taken into account in the drafting of the draft that will follow that informative study. But the high-speed train is going to pass, and what we have to achieve is that it passes in the best possible way and preserving our natural, cultural and territorial values.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-22.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and forty-nine.
