ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we will call the Casado Figuere and Josu Estarrona Elizdo lawyers. Please. [[They came in.]] Before we begin with the first point, I will read the institutional expression of the Basque Parliament on the death of Mohamed Abdez: "Bake and Freedom for the People of Saharar, proposed parlamentary associations, and the death of the President of the Democratic Arab Republic of Sheba, and of the principal secretary of Fronte Polisarius, of May 31, the Super Bilcura of the Basque Parliament, makes this remark: "She suffers from the death of Mohamed Abdellaz, and gives her solidarity and emotion to her family and all the village of saharar in these sad and hard moments. "Many of the parliamentary members of this legislature have been able to recognize this person since 1991, and also to verify how lovingly and closely he treated the representatives of this Chamber of peacemen and prudent politicians, and what importance it was to the friendship of the Basque People and Sahar and the political protection sent from the Basques. "In the journeys of parliamentary representations to the Tindouf refugee camps, in the celebration of the Eucoco conferences in different places in Europe, in his visits to Euskadi, in his own home in Tindouf, there has always been a gap in Abdelaziz's agenda to share a few brief or long moments with us. "On the occasion of its death, the Basque Parliament wishes to reiterate its numerous pronouncements and institutional declarations adopted in favour of the cause of the Saharan people, and states that this indelible memory will strengthen and strengthen ties between the Basques and the Saharans in the future. "For this reason we also meet with the mourners and manifestations of emotion sent from the whole world to the people of Saharar, the Basque Congress approves this declaration, and proposes to make a pause for a minute in this whole meeting, in memory and honour of this man." We'll be silent for a minute. [[Pause]] Before starting with the first point, I mean that the third point will be seen at the second point, and the second point in the third. Change is the impossibility of a parlamentary which ought to attend to the point. Preceding theme: "The other proposition of the U.S.P.A.P.P.P.P.S.P.E.P.S.P.E.E.A. To judge for ever by the drawings of the whole of May 26 conference, according to the 92.1 article of the Rule." It was a draw in the vote of the entire correction of the teams. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the partisans of 27; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; abstaining, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u1	The consequence is that, as a draw, it is cancelled. First point in theme list: "The opening of the Board of Peace and Security, and Justice, which was made upon the bill of law to arrange the Juridic Service of the Eucomators. Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn, Mr. Erkoke, has the word to introduce the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. Today, according to the prospect of the entire gathering, I have come to present to you this plan of legislation on the organization of the World's Juridic Service. The local administration has two main features between us. On the one hand, general interest has been created to serve objectively, and, on the other hand, to complete its entire activity with complete dependence on the law and right. The third part of the 103th article of the Constitution plainly proclaims: "La Adminción sirve con objectividad loces generales y actúa plenotimeimento a la ley y alrecho." From this second feature, that "con pluno amimententento a la ley y al derecho," is the source that every administration must have a legal and legal service. For if the Administration is always to act according to the Law, and in all its actions, it may be understood that it is necessary for the Judicians, and men of experience, to show the way which is lawful to the Administration, and to defend, when it is necessary, the course of the Administration before the Judges and Courts, has been made according to the Law. These are the plans of the law which I present to you today. I will still say more correctly and more accurately: more than regulating, 30 years ago, it comes to completing and to-day all that this legislature has prescribed, that is to conclude what the law of the 26th of June regulated by 7/1986 and to-day. The bill that I have the honour to present to the House today seeks to lay the foundations for a proper, complete, comprehensive model of the Basque administration's action in the area of justice. A complete model, because it includes both the advisory and the contentious function, both essential to give effect to the principle of full submission of the public administration to the law and to the law. Integral, because it has been prepared not only for the general administration, but also for all those agencies of the institutional administration whose rules of creation and organization have not recreated in their own sphere the availability of their own legal advisory services. And because it consolidates and completes a unique way of organizing and doing in the field of legal aid from the public administration, whose bases have been observed, they have been practically practiced since the Basque Government was formed in 1980. A model that rests on two pillars. On the one hand, a group of expert legal advisers organized within each of the departments of the General Administration, to provide legal support for their administrative decisions and decisions, and on the other hand a restricted group of lawyers, who are more engaged and experienced in the work of the lawyer, who, in a way of progress in the professional career, form a central legal service that strengthens departmental legal assistance in relation to the more specialized decisions of the Government itself, and, on the other hand, also deals with the defence before the courts of justice of each and every decision of the Basque Public Administration that is challenged in the judicial process. Without disregarding, of course, other organizational formulas, all of them licit, the experience accumulated within the General Administration believes that this allows to reconcile the necessary solvency of the legal services, today more necessary if it is possible than ever, with the always advisable proximity to those responsible for the sectoral public policies. But the project does not exhaust itself in strictly organizational matters. It also deals with other aspects of the legal function related to the representation of the public administration before judges and courts, and regulates the exercise of legal defence before judicial bodies. At this point, the law is the result of the exercise of the competence provided for in article 10, paragraph 6, of the Gernika Statute, concerning procedural rules deriving from the specialties of substantive law and the organization of the Basque Country; an autonomous competence which must obviously be co-honored with that which the Constitution reserves to the State in the field of procedural legislation. I believe that there has been a good agreement on these issues in the parliamentary process of the draft law, and in fact most of the amendments and positions advocated by the groups have been adopted and incorporated into its text, to the point of improving the initial draft and of being able, on the basis of that agreement, to come forward with new issues, as they are – and I am aware that this is the case with all public services of the same kind – the cases of conflicts of interest, in which the representation and defence in court must be denied by the mere application of general and customary legal solutions in these situations. This will happen when it comes to the defence of authorities and public employees themselves, when at the beginning of the proceedings, or because of cases that have occurred, direct involvement in proceedings related to offences against public administrations can be assessed. In such cases, I insist that we have agreed here in the House to proceed with the denial of representation and defence by the public legal service. The project opts for an eminently public model, in which the representation and defence of the public administration before judges and courts is entrusted, in principle, to a public body composed of public officials. However, its text does not preclude the empowerment of external private professionals to perform this function. In order to do so, public control mechanisms are established, such as the need to develop a supporting record of the decision and its inclusion in a specific registry of such orders. But the rule also provides for the opposite hypothesis, that is, that instrumental entities dependent, linked or involved by the public administration and subject to private law may entrust their representation and defence to the Central Legal Service of the Basque Government. During the process of the law, at the governmental stage, some objected that a forecast of these characteristics could adversely affect free competition and thus contravene the rules that guarantee it. This is not, however, the Government's view, nor is it the view of the majority of the House, as has been seen in the debates that have taken place both in the paper and in committee. Nor – this is evident – is this the criterion of the state legislator and of the autonomic legislators who have incorporated rules similar to their respective laws on the management of legal services. I personally welcome this option, I think it is an important contribution to the text. We will work in the future, if it is well received, and in any case it is undeniable that it constitutes a measure to improve the efficiency of public resources. Finally, I would like to give a brief consideration to the public organization of staff in relation to the functions of legal aid in the General Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community. The draft contains the minimum elements necessary to ensure that the public organization of the staff of the Central Legal Service of the Basque Government is strengthened in the future, precisely because it is responsible for carrying out the most unique advisory and defence functions in court. To this end, it envisages the creation of a speciality reserved for the staff mainly responsible for this latter function, representation and defence in court. As this forecast has been the subject of particular attention by some parliamentary groups, it seems to me that I must pay attention to it at this time. At present, the Legal Advisers of the General Administration are integrated into a single cadre of staff, comprising approximately 250 posts of the Legal Adviser type and approximately thirty of the Legal Counsel type of the Central Legal Service. Well, while the first group shows a considerable level of interinity, the second has been consolidated at the highest stage of the administrative career, and today virtually all of its posts are filled by officials. And yet – and here is the concern of the law – in the medium term there is no doubt that there will be needs arising from the vegetative evolution of staff. This concern places the measure of creating a specialty and of designing in the future new conditions for access to the functions of lawyer or lawyer of the Central Legal Service. In order to achieve an equitable and efficient strategy, the additional provision of the project states that all lawyers who serve the public administration today and who are at least five years old will be able to access the specialty directly if they are civil servants, and when they enter a future OPE if they are acting today, thus making a profit on the specialized dedication they have experienced in the past. It is an equitable measure of respect for functional rights and, at the same time, a measure aimed at ensuring the optimal use of public resources from the point of view of their efficiency; not to neglect the experience accumulated during years of work in specialized work, which can be perfectly used and optimised within a specialized unit such as that of the Central Legal Service. These are the foundations of the project, which, once approved by the House, will undoubtedly contribute to modernizing our legal services and strengthening their professionalism, at a time when citizens demand more forcefully than ever the full submission of the public administration to the law and the law. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u3	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. One of the members of the board is willing to introduce the verdict, if that's what the committee says. No? Well, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro... He mustn't speak. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I agree with you, Mr Erkoreka, that the text was indeed necessary. That the text that was brought, although a little late, if I may have a little criticism of this rule, was brought to this House a little out of time with what you had planned, was a good text, but I believe that the work that has been carried out in the committee is very important. And if we have kept the amendments – which are very short, very simple, and wanted to explain in a couple of strokes – it is, among other things, to be able to take the floor and thank you for the work that has been done in the committee. The work of Mrs Gallastegui, of Mr Arzuaga and especially of Mr Orbegozo, because I understand that she has acted, apart from being a representative of the group, as a transmission belt with the Government, which has done an excellent job of admitting much of the amendments that the groups had tabled to this draft. And that has been done with multiple meetings of the paper, with a lot of patience on the part of all members, especially towards me, because it is more difficult for some of us to understand things than others and we need to reread the articles and the amendments many times so that in the end the concrete meaning of what the legislator wanted to say is clear to us all. That patience has made it possible that, in a climate of consensus and much work, many meetings, and long ones, have indeed involved the admission of very diverse views and views that we had on different matters. There are three blocs that my group maintains in the amendments. A very simple one, about the type of action that the legal services of the Basque Government understand they should take. We wanted to see a series of special consultations submitted to the report, and that the reports were, in fact, very objective and based solely on legal reasoning and legal arguments, and not on grounds of opportunity. On the other hand, we considered that the move to defend the public administration in the courts was backed by a minimal experience, a time of experience within what is the defence of the public administrations in the courts. Everyone, the majority of the members of this House, or a large majority of its members, is licensed in law, and we all know that it is not the same as a lawyer, and that it is not the same to work as a legal adviser by making reports to defend them in the courts. Many times that knowledge of the forum, that knowledge of the procedural tricks or tricks, is frankly useful in the final outcome of the lawsuit. That is why we understood that this step was necessary to give it with some experience in what it is to enter into stands and put on a toga, which has nothing to do with preparing the legal reports in an office, without, of course, denouncing either of the two positions, because both are necessary for the defence of the interests of the Administration. On the other hand, we were also concerned that these very prestigious legal services of the Basque Government would become a great legal consultancy for the entire administration of the Basque Autonomous Community, which could require their services, sign an agreement and use them for the defence of their interests in court, if they were not logically opposed to those of the general administration of the Community, or if at least that was the case, it would not be charged. In other words, in a way to prevent a small – you have made, Mr Erkoreka, reference to it –..., a small disloyal competition against those who exercise the profession freely. These are the three fundamental arguments that we maintained, which I say are simply small nuanced or different points of view in a text with which we, as a whole, agree. I just want to thank my colleagues again for the patience they have had, and to congratulate them, both to the Government and to the group that supports it, for the way in which they have carried out the work of this paper, which has met, worked, and reached very important consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u5	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. Basque Socialist doesn't have to take the word... Collect EH. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. And good day to you all. Today, in accordance with this law of the Juridic Service of the Eukongs, we approve of a law in the interior of the Administration, which makes a present of legal services, and illustrates the rules. I think it's a law that has a small political dimension or social dimension, but which will help to regulate these services better. When we got into the transfer of this law, we'd start with two concerns. It was the first thing that the Administration decides not to give a public organism, or to a civil officer a legal resistance, and to leave this service, this legal dependence, in private hands, we did not know what was the cause of this institution, of a public service, of a legal independence, of a legal independence, of private hands. And we know the casuistics about it. In the case of the borders or corruptions involved in the case of the Cabbacas (in the case of De Miguel or the Lonja of Pasadena), the Administration has decided to hand over the legal defense to the private defence, and the reason why this is done is because we did not know what kind of expense it is that consumes, which is committed under the clergy. From now on we shall recognise by this law; as has been said, a report, a memory, which explains all these crickets, and, moreover, this memory will be written in a public census. I think that in the principle of transparency there is a very important step. The second concern, which we had at first, was in what state this great number of provisional workers would be if they approved of this law. What was going to happen with those workers who've spent years of intersiding, that's what we were worried about. And we contacted the workers, and we were told that the solution of the law, that is to say, that this solution to the consolidation of those who worked for more than five years, was a good one, and that the experiments and rights of the workers filled and quashed. These two concerns are settled, and we have been able to repair other concerns of that kind during the tramation, which is why we have come to the advantage of this law with the protection of the EH Collector. It's true that our amendments have been approved. It is true, too, that there has been a deep discussion, that it has been substantial. But I must also say that it was exemplary that we had the argument and the pleasant quarrel we had, and that this ponciation really had a good education and a good study of labour, and I wish to accept it and praise it so. I'm also grateful for the work the other punks, the other parliamentary ones, have done in this. And that's why we're satisfied, we'll protect this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u7	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, President, chief officers. We share with the other teams, too. From the very beginning, as soon as we received the legal system, we made it clear that this law of 1986 was to be updated and so it was proper to undertake it. And what the goal was, that's what we agreed on. And I think that we have attempted to make a contribution for all of us, to make the best law as possible, to organize a legal service, and to regulate the legal existence of the general and institutional administration as well as possible. As the members of the other groups have remarked, I would like to praise the work we've done on this team, the positive attitude of the representatives of all the groups. It's true it's been a very technical area, so we've had a lot of doubts. We have tried to dispute, to promote controversy, to make agreements. It's true, too, that when there's been different legal interpretations and we've asked him to give you his criteria or his descriptions, he's made an effort, and in that sense thanks for the work you've done to the people of AKIKING. We therefore, as we from the beginning wanted this law to be as best we could, have had no difficulty in considering, testing, and adding to the text the contributions of the groups. In this sense, many and many corrections have been admitted. At other times, we have agreed to a number of means. In some cases all corrections could not be admitted, as has been shown. The popular party has retained some, and frequently disagreed with what was agreed with the rest of the party. I think, at least, that the criteria we all had on the basis or at bottom have been added to this law, so that I shall not enter into the examination of those corrections one by one. I think that we had discussed enough in the country itself, that each of us had explained it. And finally, I want to thank all other team reps, and I want to thank the crew. And I mean, at least we're glad we've accepted this law. And just thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u9	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. I guess no one wants a second turn. [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we're going to have the vote to say that the Social Party has withdrawn its amendments. Euscal Populous Groups are the second, fifth, 7th, 9th, and 17th, of the remaining corrections and regulations reserved for the articles, and the correction of the new article, and the 3. Bis. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 10; counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u10	So they didn't accept it. The second, fifth, and seventh, and the sixth, and 17th, are next made to vote. We can vote. Sí...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u11	Good morning. We had asked for a separate vote on the additional provision.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u12	Where did you order? No one told me... Okay, which one?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u13	Let us see, if I did not misunderstand you, you said that we were going to vote on Articles 2, 5 to 7, 9 and 16 of the opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u14	And the 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u15	And the additional provision.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u16	And the additional provision.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u17	No, no, The separate additional provision, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u18	We got her out, okay. Then we vote again. The second part of the population of Euscalia team, from 5 to 7th, the 9th, and the 17th, and the correction of creating the new article. We can vote... "Sí, con la discoción adinal que me dices que la saque mouth... [[Berber]] Let's see, isiltasuna, mesez. We shall now vote on the additional provision, on its own, separately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u19	Well, let's see, if I have not misunderstood it before, by translation, we voted first on the joint vote on the amendments reserved by the Group of the European People's Party to Articles 2, 5 to 7, 9 and 16 of the opinion...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u20	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u21	... and the creation of a new article, 3. bis. That was...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u22	No, along with that we voted on the additional provision, and then you told me to pull out the additional provision, and then I made a new vote just...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u23	Excuse me. (...) the additional provision when we voted jointly on Articles 2, 5 to 7, 9 and 16 of the opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u24	Yes, yes, yes... No, both of you! Both of them. [[Berber]] Let's see, I'm screaming. We have voted on the reserved amendments of the People's Party all, including the additional provision. Then we voted on the articles, and that is when you told me to remove the additional provision. Then I went back up and made a new vote by taking out the additional provision. Y mouthsa vamos a votar la disposición acinal, eh? Venga. We can vote. Extra regulations, additional reserved regulations. Yeah, the correction. [[Berber]] Extra file, but... Let's all see if we understand. We voted on one side: "They go together from 2nd to 7, Euscalia Pilpian Groups to 7th... "I don't know. That team. This was the additional regulations. Then, as he declined, we voted: "The second, the sixth, the seventh, the sixth, the sixth, and the sixth, and the other regulations are placed together." And then he said that further regulations should be made. Then we'd have to go back upstairs, up to the first vote, and we'd have to get out of there, and then we'd go back to the second vote. Do you understand? (Response) What? Hey, I'm still doing this. I don't know what you got there, Luke. [[Berber]] We're still correct. We're going to vote for extra regulations now. [[Berber]] Please, when you ask for the articles to be released, just ask for the time. Otherwise, look at the pop. That's for starters because when you vote, then you ask... That's a jaeo. Because I'm a big genus. That's it. [[Barres]] So, okay. [[Berber]] For those of you who haven't found out, we'll start the vote again. I was starting again, but we'll start the vote again. From the top. But I repeat: Please tell me before the vote starts. End of discussion, we're going to vote. The American Populous Basque Groups agree together from 2, 5 to 7th, 9.16. and 17th articles which are reserved for the production of new articles, and the correction of the new article 3. Bis. And I'll leave the extra regulations for later. Yeah? Okay. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 10; counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u25	So they didn't accept it. Now we vote for extra regulations, correction. No, we have to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; 10, contrary, 57; white, 4. Abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u26	So he didn't accept it. The second, fifth, and seventh, and the sixth, and the 17th, and the extra regulation. We can vote. [[Berber]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Okay, okay, we'll have extra regulations. Okay, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We can vote for all the others. We can vote. [[Pause]] Yes, I'm wrong this time, I'm wrong. I accept. But not before, you told me too late. I'm confused. Come on, vote. After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 63; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u27	They're approved. Now we vote for additional regulations. You can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstain, 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u28	So it's accepted. The articles that have no correction in the judgment, that is to say, articles that are at the same time agreed upon, that is to say, 1, 3, 4, 8, 10, to 15, to the transient regulation, to the imperturbable regulation, and the second of the last regulations, are put together, and the name of the law and description. You can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white; 1; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u29	And so it's agreed that the Law for the organization of the Juridic Service of Mastersion was organized. Now, the vote. Maniro... ? No. "Callastro, you're the one with the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u30	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, to apologize for what might have happened with regard to this vote. Well, we have just passed the twenty-fifth law of this legislature, the eleventh on the proposal of the Government, because the rest has been, as you know, on the initiative of groups, citizens and General Councils of Álava. And we passed, as I say, a law that seemed necessary to us. And once again, when socialists see proposals in which we see possibilities to improve the rights of citizens or the functioning of the administration and public services, we are working hard to bring them forward, providing what we can. In other cases, when the law is bad of origin and has no settlement, we request its return. In this case we have been proposed a law which, as I say, seemed very timely. In fact, the Socialist Government has produced a text, and this text that was presented to us by the present Government we have tried to improve it, and therefore, since it entered this House in July until today, eleven months later, we have collaborated with the rest of the groups and with the Government itself to make possible this text that has just been endorsed. We, ladies and gentlemen, believe that a good legal body can achieve, through coordination, advice and legal defence, that our community, Euskadi, has better standards, more correct and effective administrative action, and, as a result, of course, better defended citizens and their rights. As significant notes of the law we can point out, among other things, that the Central Legal Service prevails before the councils, which contributes to unity in the legal action of the Government; that the mandatory report is drawn up with regard to any participation of the Government in societies, foundations, etc., which will lead to avoiding the disparity of criteria, dispersion and contradictory actions that sometimes occur at present; that a public register is established of the commissions and commissions that the Government and – most importantly – the entities that make up the Institutional Administration carry out to the offices of lawyers and prosecutors (this is a novelty, ladies and gentlemen, in Spain); and that the procedure for the defence of authorities and officials is clarified, with the establishment of the body that will refuse it, and that the attribution of responsibility is also clarified when the defence is granted. Citizenship is better defended, expressly pointing out that the rapid execution of sentences, even if they harm the Administration a priori, is part of the general interest, since the Administration has no greater interest than the enforcement of the law. And these are the reasons, among others, why we voted in favour. All the groups that have preceded me in this rostrum have said so, and the proposal has certainly been improved. And it is fair to point out that there has been a proactive attitude on the part of all the groups, and especially by the representative of the group that supports the Government, whose actions I should like to thank, as I have said on other occasions, Mr Orbegozo. The Socialists have only missed one last effort, to understand that we could have done even better. And we specifically raised two issues that have essentially to do with two objectives, which were not others, as the adviser also said, that better to ensure the exercise of the function of representation and defence in court, and to deal with the overinterinity in the services that must guarantee the legal certainty of all acts of the Government. We believe that it is important that the law compromises this generational relief, allowing planning to this or future governments, so that it is not an issue that remains, in the end, at the dawn or in the hands of the greater or lesser political will of the head of the Executive at that time. A majority in this House does not share this socialist concern for directing all of our public services to that generational relief, in an administration with a high rate of interinity, but we are looking forward to the progress that has been made. I believe that, as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, the laws must work in this way, with an acceptable proposal, with a willingness to improve, taking into account what all groups, without exception, can bring. And this law, even though it has been very peaceful, has cost us a lot of work. I mean, it's not a big law, it's not a very technical law, but it's cost us almost a year. So, ladies and gentlemen, morals: things are much better done and it ends up being more useful to all citizens when groups can work rigorously and especially in time. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Third point in theme list: "The mention of the Confederation, Security, and Justice Committee, which was made on the bill of changing the Law of the 30th of June, 1981. Discipline and final resolution. A member of the board defending the judgment... ? No. Missita's not here. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am going to be quite brief in this bill, in this bill that we put forward in its day, and I hope that we will not have the problems we have had before in the vote, because I believe that there is no amendment left by any group and that what is voted on is short. We propose amending the Government Act so that this Parliament, so that parliamentary groups can receive and have access to the preliminary draft laws and decrees of the Basque Government, including the documentation supporting them. At the time, the Government felt good, although it told us that the transparency law was going to far exceed what we were proposing, and the groups in Parliament were going to have, like the rest of the citizens, more rights, that the Government would be more transparent and that we would have access to that documentation before. I believe that on this issue the Government has confused two things. One, which is Parliament's relationship with the government (and that's why we were talking about the Government Act). And another, what is the law of transparency, is that every administration has to be more transparent with citizens and citizens have to have the right of access to information that they did not have until then. And the reality of what's happening to us... And, as someone said in committee, man, that this was just as late and that it was short, so I have to say that this law is more necessary than ever, because not only is this government being... I do not know if it is more transparent with the citizens, but, of course, with Parliament it is being much less transparent. Much less transparent. And I'm going to read a reply that we received from the government the other day, 15 days ago, when this group asked that with one of the bills that the government had forwarded..., that there was a lack of documentation that had to accompany that bill (and I'm not talking about drafts, I'm talking about bills). And the answer we have received from the government is the following: "In response to your initiative on documents not submitted with the project on access to and exercise of sports professions in the Basque Country" – I can put more examples of laws – "I inform you that, in compliance with the commitment of this government to transparency and in particular to active advertising, all the documentation accompanying the aforementioned bill is public in nature and is located or will be found in the following web address". This means that the Government has decided that it no longer forwards to Parliament the documentation to which it is bound by the law itself to... No, no! In response to this group's approach, there is a lack of documentation with the bill. The government tells us to go on a website, and if it isn't, it will be. And then he tells us: "At present the publication of all the documents accompanying the above-mentioned bill is being finalized, work that is expected to be completed in the coming days". This is the response we received on 18 May 2016 from this Government, at the request of this group to forward the documents that by law must accompany any bill that comes to this House. That is why I say, and I repeat, that when we are considering, listen, that we also want it with the pre-projects, we hope that this will not happen again. I just want to thank all the groups, especially Mrs Gallastegui, who I think has withdrawn the amendments. He's got the transactional. With which we all agree on what we have proposed, all groups agree unanimously, and we hope that this Government, or the next, will comply with the Government Act and forward it to the House..., in addition to publishing it on the website and on any other site it deems appropriate, but that it forwards to the House the documentation that must accompany any bill. And, I repeat, I simply want to thank everyone and all groups for the unanimous agreement that we have reached with this bill and this amendment to the Government Act, and we hope that it will be implemented more than the current Government Act, which we say is not being complied with, and the Government will also refer us to a website, which we will see when the documentation that should have come to Parliament along with that bill and many others is being hung. And we hope that this Government (has a transitional provision for the coming months), or the next, will comply specifically with the Government Act. And the law not of transparency, which also, but that of government, which obliges the government to refer to this House... Because all governments... or at least I have always understood that the Basque Government was transparent with the Basque Parliament, rather transparent, because it was their obligation. Another thing is that it is more transparent with citizens. But what cannot be done is that, in the interests of transparency with the citizens now, I no longer have transparency with the Basque Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u33	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists... "Exlicación de voto." Do you want to collect EH from the group? Mr. Aguirre, okay? Aguirre.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u34	Thank you, ma'am. There's not much mystery in this legal proposition today. It clears when to send the bill and the order to the parliament. He's sent all the law projects that the government has hitherto sent him when they've done it in the government. So this legislature only gets them then. This bill of law receives two nods. First, that, at the beginning of the Decorations, MUGHY will send him to the Basque Act, the Juridic Council, the text of the bill or bill of decree which he will send, when he has a prior consent to the organ which he has ordered to begin the proceedings. And second news: The same documentation, which is sent to the Juridic Commission of Counsell, will also be sent to this legislature, that the members of the legislature may have occasion to know the documentation. These are, as I have said, novelty. So we could say that there's a great deal of agreement, because the Basque Country comes with what's planned here. What's to be done with this? Transparency, the function of this legislature towards the government, the promotement of government control and initiative (control ultulso del Gobierno), the communication being more frequent and immediate, and the information available to the people. Because of transparency, the Basque Country understands transparency as a use of democratic honesty. We believe that transparency is essential from the standpoint of the necessity of another policy. We plan to change democratic culture and to act politics differently. From this point of view, what is planned here today is not enough. However, we shall never refuse to take steps in this line, for what is planned today is a small step, and therefore we shall vote for it. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sure what we're going to do today will make it easier for us to do what we're going to accept. It struck us as quite extraordinary that the idea of the law-proposing had occurred to us: 'tis said that it will be out of date. To say this, he mentions the 19/2013 Law of December 9, and the bill of the law of the Public Administration in Tramite, which he thinks is beyond that which is here planned. If this is so, why hasn't he been able to resist and control until now? Why hasn't he sent the billings and proclamations of decree, as is demanded in today's law? That's funny. This shows that what we're going to accept today is necessary for the fun to move, so that it's clear of its inclosure. With the concept of being available to the citizen, I absolutely agree. If you want to encourage the citizen's share, we need to guarantee information. For information is power, so that the more we share the information, the more democratic is a society. That's one of the needs. La informacion no es una matter pasiva, la informion es una tuamica y la informoón es creadora de opinión. From this Illus, the Socialist Group had introduced a correction, which was the third. That was our position to protect him, but as he's stopped by the Social Party, we won't vote. To conclude, it must be said that at the last moment a general agreement has come, and that this general agreement agrees with the United States of Basques, and will vote for this legal proposition. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. Today we're discussing a billing plan in the company's initiative to change the New Year's Law. As it is expressed in the explanation of them, besides believing that the proper transparency is of itself concerned, change is intended to enhance the work of the legislative government and of the control of the legislative groups. And we share this justification. How can we not share it, Mr Damborenea, if the Basque Parliamentary Group in the Congress of Deputies, in February 2014, presented a proposal for a law amending the Law on State Government, Law 50/1997, where it literally said – in the explanatory statement – "The proposed amendment, apart from being consistent with adequate transparency, is necessary in order to improve the work of impulse and control of the Government from the parliamentary groups"! Does that ring a bell, Mr. Damborenea? Because it's part of your motive statement. And we'd say, well, that sounds logical, doesn't it? That sounds logical. But that approach of the Nationalist Group in the Congress of Deputies of February 2014, which was posed exactly the same as that reflected its proposed law, in the debate, after requesting its party to withdraw for obsolete, unnecessary, repetitive and insufficient, and despite having the support of the rest of the parliamentary groups of Congress, was rejected in the vote by the absolute majority of the People's Party. Using the words of the popular spokesman in that debate of that proposal in March 2014, Mrs Ferrando Sendra, "There are parliamentary groups with contradictory attitudes," she said. The same was true of this: what is rejected in Congress because it is considered obsolete, unnecessary, repetitive and insufficient, so it arises here. And I find it curious, and it even made me funny when I heard that here what it is all about is confusing transparency with the government-parliament relationship. The Nationalist Group also introduced a bill more recently, prior to the dissolution of Congress, which referred to the control of a functioning government by the Courts. I do not know whether that also sounds like Mr Damborenea in terms of the government-parliament relationship. We will vote together in favour of this bill, but with a difference, and the difference lies in political will and political coherence. And here, as on other issues, political will is very important, and, as is often said, the movement is shown to be moving. Faced with the position I have commented on by the Spanish Government and the party that supports it, here we have the favourable view of the Basque Government, with two arguments basically. The first is respect for the work of Parliament (be in office..., respect for the work of Parliament), and therefore its support for all those measures that can really contribute to improving parliamentary work. Secondly, the firm commitment to the principle of transparency and, therefore, support for all those measures that can really be useful in advancing this objective. And all this despite the fact that, de facto, the initiative is largely overtaken by reality. In short, there is an agreement of the Governing Council of 3 February 2004 to determine the documents to be forwarded to the Basque Parliament together with the draft laws, which expands the documentation sent to Parliament in addition to what was already established by the Government Act of 1981. In December 2015, under the State Transparency Act, the Legegunea portal was created, where everything is hung in real time. All procedures for preliminary draft laws, bills, decrees, etc. Therefore, any citizen has access to it. And on the other hand, in addition to the State Transparency Act of 2013, since November last year the Basque transparency bill is in the process in this Parliament, where the spirit of the initiative is reflected and we could even say that in a more ambitious way. What's the difference? The population and eubertarian patriots, according to the medium of the group, will be allowed to send three shipping to the legislature. "Efectivatorente, con la adición de modifión va a haber tres resunes al Parlamento." Lehenengoa, after approval by the adviser who issued the initiating order, as provided for in section 7.1 of the Law on Procedure for the Preparation of General Provisions. I mean, it already stops being a deleted one, and that's what becomes a preliminary draft. Bigarrena, when sent to the Legal Advisory Commission. The same documentation that the Government sends to the Legal Advisory Commission, and at the same time, must be referred to Parliament. Eta hirugarrena, the bill. When the draft law is in place, with the report of the Legal Advisory Commission and the adaptation report as appropriate. As some of the speakers in this House said in the plenary session of this initiative, back in May 2014, this amendment can facilitate the work of the parliamentary groups and help to speed up the work in this House. Logically, if the preliminary draft is received earlier – although, as we have said, it can be accessed through the Legegunea portal – more information and more time will be available for further study and elaboration of possible amendments, and it will be possible to avoid the successive and repeated extension of deadlines for submitting amendments to the draft law. We have tabled a technical amendment which does nothing but reorganise the three paragraphs of Article 56 with a chronological approach. It should also be stressed that once this bill has been passed, it would be necessary, at least, to bring article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of this House into line with what we are going to adopt here today. On the other hand, our group has also reached a compromise amendment with the Socialist Group, in order to establish a single transitional provision whereby the Government is given a period of three months to forward, in a single submission to Parliament, all the general provisions to which this amendment relates, which are being processed upon its entry into force, and with all the documentation referred to in this legislative amendment. The Socialist Group proposed a period of 20 calendar days; in the end, with the explanation that it was necessary to carry out a computer application in order to fulfil this mandate, the transactional has been accepted, and we therefore thank the Socialist Group. And finally, despite what has been said above, Mr Damborenea, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for its willingness to reach an agreement (how could we not reach an agreement, if that is what we are presenting in Madrid!, and to call for the support of the rest of the parliamentary groups for the amendments we have had both with the People's Group and with the Socialist Group. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u37	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord of Damme, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Zorrilla, if I told you from the beginning that this was a brilliant idea of the Basque Nationalist Party, it seemed to us that it was fantastic! That you proposed that it should be done with regard to the Government of Spain, with regard to the Congress of Deputies, and it seemed so good to us, that we decided to bring it here so that the Basque Government would also have those obligations. And when you say that your proposal has become obsolete... Of course, because the State Transparency Act was passed in 2014, and this tiny, small, single-article law, we brought it to this House in May 2014. And it's 2016 in June. And that's where I'm going to leave it. But what you cannot tell me is that, as the Basque Government complies with the State Transparency Act, then the documents are already hanging there. Because I have just read you a reply from the Government, not this that we are raising, to something that already exists in the Government Act: the obligation to forward to this House the documents accompanying not a preliminary draft, as we say here, a bill, and the Government's response has been that we look at the website, which does not send it. That was the government's response, which we received ten days ago! That is not transparency, and less so if we are talking about preliminary drafts of law, that if you enter the page of the Basque Government, then you have a search engine, but if you don't know what preliminary draft, or what decree, or what law is being made, how do you seek it? How do you look for her? If you are a citizen, but do you believe that we, Parliament, parliamentarians, parliamentary groups, have to look into the government's websites to see what documentation there is, or what law is being processed, or what draft law is being processed? Do you think that information that the government already has by law, today, the obligation to forward, should come? If we're also saying, "Hey, we also want the pre-projects to come, and also that documentation to come." Today the government is failing to comply with the bills, and above all in the answer I have read to them says "Well, and it's not all hung up yet because it will take us longer to hang up." And yet, the project is already being processed in this House. It's being processed in this Chamber. That is why I say that we are going to leave it, we are going to leave it in which we have reached an agreement, and, as I said in my first speech, we are going to see if it is finally achieved. And of course, as was said more than two years ago, if the groups have access to the documentation before the bill comes, if the groups have access to the preliminary draft law, if the groups have the ability to see what changes are made between the preliminary draft and the next draft, mainly because there is a report from the Legal Advisory Commission in the middle, because the groups will obviously have more information than what was intended by that draft law or what is intended. And I am going to stick to it that, in the end, we will unanimously approve it, and remind you that, in the end, the transparency law here we do not yet have, and we are more in favour of complying with our own laws, for example the Government Act, which contains this which we all approve today, and what we hope is that in what remains of the legislature and the next one we can see.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u39	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr. Aguirre... He mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u40	Yes, briefly to comment on a couple of things about what Mr Damborenea mentioned. All right, let's leave it, let's leave it, because we're going to approve it unanimously, but here you, despite the unanimity, have come to this lecture to put your finger in the eye of the Basque Government, when, as I said, you have enough to shut up about the attitude of the Spanish Government, which is supported by your party. And yes, it is true, and it is also shown. The debate was on March 18, 2014; you two days later presented the bill in this House, even though you knew that Congress, with the absolute majority of the People's Party, had rejected this bill, which you think is so perfect and so magnificent to apply here, to the Basque Government, but which in Madrid should not be... As I said, Mrs Ferrando Sendra's arguments: obsolete, repetitive, unnecessary and insufficient. But we are consistent, and we present it in Madrid to apply it by the Spanish Government and then we approve it here too to apply it to the Basque Government. That's political coherence. And also, as I said, political will. And speaking of political will I will finish, because some things are the words, but at the bottom of the words are also distilling some ideas. And, in view of the clarity of our view, the spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group, in the debate of 18 March 2014 in Congress, said that the a priori control of the preliminary draft laws by the General Courts would in practice involve interference of the Legislature in the basic powers of the Executive. If we add to this the lack of respect for Parliament, for Congress, when the government has been in office, then here we see that transparency and that political will are not such. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u41	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote for... Anybody want to get something out of here? The Socialist Party just wants to get out the second article. Anybody else wanna get something out? No. Let's vote first for the second article of judgment, which we'll vote separately. The second article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 57; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u42	The second essay of judgment is therefore accepted. Next we vote for the rest of the concept, the internal middle-term correction and technical correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u43	So, unanimously, the law of changing the 7/1981 Law of June on Christmas. Now the second point in the subject list... A vote description. Maniro... No. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u44	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. In our view, this proposal for a law put forward by the People's Party has lacked one last step, although we consider the reform approved to be a good one. Although attempts are sometimes made to move another impression, about 30 laws are being worked on very intensively in this Parliament. And some of them are tangential, they touch the matter, ladies and gentlemen, and we Socialists like to maintain a criterion of coherence between some texts and others. And we did that, while we were finalizing the work of this reform of the Government Act and we were finalizing our contributions to the transparency law. And it seemed to us that it was an opportunity that the proposer offered us precisely to deepen transparency in the rule governing the functioning of the Government and its relationship with this House, and that it should go in line with that which could be adopted in the near future, or even, if that law could not reach its final point, that the criterion was also in this text. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that we Socialists have opted for rules of radical transparency, that we bet that in all public actions information and accessibility to citizens is made as much easier as possible, that this tool will ultimately be used to break down walls of mistrust. That was the reason why we asked for a little over a year ago to return the law of public administration, because it seemed timid and unambitious to us, and that is why in the law that must mark the rules of transparency of the whole Basque public sector we have made contributions that bet clearly on this reform, so that there is a greater capacity of all citizens to access the public administration, and that anyone can easily know what we do in the institutions. That is why we believe that, on the contrary, it was particularly timely that, if we talked about reforming to improve communication between the Executive and the Legislature, we would include a paragraph that would ensure the accessibility of citizens in general to project processes. And, Mr. Zorrilla, we believe that we remain short by referring to the Legegunea portal on the web, indeed free access, yes, but it is not known by the whole citizenry. It is known primarily by specialists. And the truth is that right now we can't invite citizens to a tour of all the government's websites, and I say it to them consciously and, finally, with reasons. For something Irekia was created in the last legislature, when the socialists thought that a page of this kind is for it to be the natural gateway of anyone to anything that sought within the many spaces of the government. As you already know, because we have asked more than one question and I think that we have already talked about this matter, today we have to make an imaginary journey to know where the agendas are hanging, the agreements adopted, that one day are in one place, other days are in another... And these are things we don't like, and we just think transparency has a lot to do with making things easy. However, I believe that most of this House did not want it, and on the socialist side I will say that this is the idea with which we will continue to work on the transparency law. And it is a pity, but we could have taken one more step and, if necessary, have facilitated, as I say, easy access, with a pum, of citizenship to all the matters with which the Government and the institutions work. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Now, the second point in the subject list: "The Bill of the Confederation of the Institution, Security, and Justice Committee, made on the bill of law on the Foundation of the Esunomical Foundation. Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn, Mr. Erkoke, has the word to present the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning again. If I were to sum up in a single word what I mean about the abuse of laws on the foundation of the whole meeting, I should say that this intention of law is necessary rather than anything else. It is necessary, because the law which has been established for more than twenty years is due to the present day, and also necessary, because it is adapted to the peculiarities and demands of the present society, and necessary, in the end, to answer new wants of foundation. And then, of course, you might mention the commitment that RedMulch has made to promote social worship. The Foundation is a proper instrument for this end, because it arises from society to satisfy the wants of society itself, and is under the protection and control of public institutions. And to be able to do all this properly, it is necessary to have a right of legislation, which is to combine public interest and the necessity of management in a balanced manner. In recent years the foundational sector has grown exponentially, without the economic crisis being an impediment to it. The official figures speak for themselves: the more than 600 foundations registered in the Basque Country's Register of Foundations account for more than 13,000 jobs and represent a net worth of more than EUR 1.4 billion, weighing 0.9 % of the GDP of the Basque Autonomous Community. But, beyond the quantitative, which I consider to be enormously graphic and eloquent, the sector also offers a qualitative aspect that I cannot overlook in this intervention: in the last few years new types of foundations have emerged among us that from the field of technology, research, cooperation to development, culture, or from the field of social intervention, affect, to a degree that is unprecedented, the development of services for the community. To this growing complexity of the foundational phenomenon comes to respond the draft law that I present today before the plenary. And it does so from a modernizing vocation that seeks to improve the channels of interaction between foundations and the public administration, simplify procedures, and enable monitoring and control instruments similar to those envisaged for other sectors that act in areas of general interest. The project continues to entrust the government of the foundations to a patronage whose structure must, in principle, be collegial, although it maintains a specialty of Basque founding legislation, according to which the possibility of the founding person designating a one-person patronage is admitted. On the other hand, it incorporates a notable novelty in the sense of registration of the persons who make up the governing body, by establishing as a general rule a declaratory registration subject to a deadline, in order to strengthen legal certainty with regard to bona fide third parties who access the register and which condition their personal performance to the information provided by that body. With regard to the foundational heritage, the legislative reform has been based on a principle of maximum administrative simplification, in order to facilitate the reduction of administrative procedures for every citizen. In the same vein, the authorization procedures, which are only required for self-contracting, have been abolished to the maximum, because this, as you can imagine, is a very sensitive matter, in order to establish in its place the figure of the declaration responsible, in line with what has been established by Directive 2006/123 of 12 December, of the European Parliament and of the Council, on services in the internal market. As a counterpart to this reduction in administrative burdens, the supervisory role of the protectorate is strengthened, allowing ex post control over acts of disposition of assets. On the functioning regime of foundations, which is eminently private, there are a number of principles of action, among which we stress the importance of strengthening the credibility of such organizations, the promotion of good practices and codes of conduct, as well as transparency and impartiality and non-discrimination in relation to potential beneficiaries. The ultimate obligation of foundations is to present annual accountability for the previous year. The Basque Government had drawn attention to the high percentage of foundations that had been failing to fulfil this duty, and also to the need to adopt coercive measures that, without becoming punitive, would require the foundations to fulfil this obligation, as I say, basic and essential. The project echoes this need, providing for the record closure as a direct and immediate reaction to the lack of presentation of the accounts; similarly, it is expected that the list of foundations that fail to comply with this obligation will be published, as well as those that, having submitted the accounts, have failed to do so. In this same line of rigour and transparency in all matters related to economic-accounting information, it has been considered desirable to extend the obligation to audit the vast majority of foundations in a mandatory manner, however maintaining the exemption for smaller foundational entities. With regard to the liquidation of foundations made up of legal-public entities, the project provides for the reversion of the remaining, if not in its entirety, at least in proportion to the contribution that could have been made by those institutions. This makes it possible, in the defence of the public interest, for the public contribution for the purposes of the general interest to return to public hands. The maintenance of the negative sense of silence for the actions of the registry has resulted, I recognize it, certainly complex, and this has been so, among other things, because the general tendency in the public administration is precisely the opposite. However, safeguarding the interests of third parties who rely on advertising and the veracity of registration prevents them from being able to obtain information that is not sufficiently contrasted from a legal point of view. Its public function, therefore, largely depends on the likelihood, credibility and certainty of the data it operates in. The new standard has included provisions to facilitate the use of telematics by foundations, as a demonstration of the Government's commitment to modernizing registers in line with the regulations that have recently been enacted on the subject. The draft also refers to foundations of a special nature, which have a specific regulatory framework, to which the general provisions of the foundational matter also apply, albeit subsidiaryly, because the legislator has decided that they must acquire this legal form, that of foundation. These are the so-called public sector foundations, and the most recently regulated banking foundations. It continues to rely on institutional collaboration and with the representative associations of the sector, through the transmission of information that is necessary concerning the scope of the foundations' competence, all for the better and more effective development of their public powers. In addition, the Basque Council of Foundations is established in the project as an advisory body, which is set up as a forum for meeting and participating the entities concerned by this matter. The introduction in chapter IV of the draft sanctioning regime, which has been the result of an amendment tabled by a parliamentary group in the House, is intended to be a guarantee of the effective fulfilment of the foundational will, and of the proper functioning of the foundations. That is its purpose, that is the objective that this chapter essentially pursues. Alongside it, it has also been considered necessary to introduce other forms of conflict channelling, such as mediation, so that the use of sanctions is always the last ratio in particularly substantial, particularly serious and repeated cases. In short, the new law on foundations will be an essential norm, which will provide legal certainty to the sector, to the administration and to the citizenry in general, incorporating and consolidating all the rules applicable in this field, while at the same time introducing technical-legal amendments that facilitate the fulfilment of legal obligations, taking into account the requirements arising from their particular legal regime, as well as the heterogeneity of the entities subject to regulation. It must be borne in mind in this respect that we are actually talking about a law that will regulate a broad group of entities of very different dimensions and nature, even if they all obey the foundational form. The text to be discussed today by the plenary of the House has highlighted the work and contributions made by the various parliamentary groups, to which I thank sincerely for their efforts and dedication. And I trust that the shared task will serve to provide legal operators, and all those working in the world of foundations, as well as ultimately society in general, with an up-to-date, adequate and sufficient regulation to guarantee the right of foundation and also to guarantee the protection of the general interests to which the exercise of this right must inevitably serve. And just as far as today is concerned, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Some member of the board... He won't defend judgment. Is the missile going to take the word? Yes, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u48	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you, counselors. As I basically agree with most of the text, I would like to briefly explain the amendments that we are currently registering. We recorded a total of ten partial amendments to this bill, of which two were finally fucked or incorporated into the text, and eight were rejected. With the first of the amendments, with Amendment No 1, we wanted to amend Article 4.1, concerning the purposes of foundations, which we wanted to include the promotion of volunteerism and the defence of tolerance. Finally, this UPyD proposal has been accepted. With Amendment No 2, to Article 4.2, which referred to who should benefit from the foundational activity, we also proposed a reform. We felt that there was no need for an express reference to companies, when there could be other beneficiaries such as retirees, children or other collectives, so that the final text would be as follows: "Fundational activity should benefit generic communities of natural or legal persons. The criteria for the selection of beneficiaries shall be objective and impartial." With Amendment No 3, to Article 7.1, we sought to eliminate public foundations. The amendment to the article was proposed to remove the possibility of the existence of public foundations, so that the text would be worded as follows: "Natural persons and private legal persons may constitute foundations, unless their regulatory rules provide otherwise". We do not agree with the existence of public foundations, as their functions can and should be developed directly by the general administration of the institutions. Finally, this has not been accepted, and we therefore maintain this amendment. We believe that it would be the most effective and efficient way to use public money; therefore, we oppose the continued existence of public foundations. Amendment No 4, which we tabled to Rule 15.2, was accepted (the only amendment that was accepted together with Amendment No 1). The deadline for communication to the Basque Country Foundation Registry is reduced from six months to three months. Amendment No 5 to Article 33(1)(a) and (b). This amendment was intended to reduce the amount from which external audits would be carried out in the foundations listed in the relevant register, in terms of both balance sheet and volume of activity. We intended to reduce these amounts from EUR 2.4 million to EUR 1 million. It has not been accepted, and therefore we maintain it. With Amendment No 6, to Article 48.1 (now 47.1), we sought to expand the mechanisms by which procedures are carried out in the register, now Protected by Foundations, and to use others beyond the electronic ones, even if they were used in a preferential way. While we agree that there should be decisive progress towards e-government and the progressive disappearance of paper, we do not believe that the possibility of people and bodies not yet trusting or using telematic systems adequately cannot be completely closed. With Amendment No 7, we propose the deletion of any reference to the advisory committee. We find this body unnecessary, because it is already created in the fourth section of this law, articles 61 and 62 (formerly 60 and 61), the Basque Council of Foundations, as an advisory body and with representation of the sector and specialists. Finally, Amendments Nos 8, 9 and 10 also refer to the need to abolish, that there are no public foundations. These are the ten amendments we tabled at the time. As I say, two of them were accepted or fucked, eight would remain pending. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr Erkoreka, even if you are surprised, I agree practically with everything you said when you made the presentation or presentation of this bill, because I do believe that this law is necessary, and this law also affects a very important sector in our Autonomous Community. This regulation was necessary. The draft that you have tabled is good, but it was subject to certain improvements on the part of all groups, and that has been shown to be quite high in the number of amendments tabled. Perhaps those of the Group of the European People's Party on a larger scale, but there were also very many amendments tabled by the rest of the groups. In that respect, I do congratulate you. My criticism, if I may, short and very moderate, is for time in the presentation of the norm. And, as in the first item on the agenda, when we were talking about the draft law on the management of legal services, a law that came a year behind the timetable that you yourself had presented, has had no impact, because it has led to an intense, calm debate, and that I believe it has had very positive conclusions, as all the speakers who have spoken have shown, in this case the time has indeed played a bad turn to the law. This law had to have arrived in the second half of 2014, and it came in the second half of 2015, and there really has not been that calm debate on many of the aspects that the law has; many and very complex. It is a very technical law, and I believe that many explanations of the will of the parties to amend, and of the will of the Government to admit, were very necessary. And I congratulate you again, because I believe that many of the positions disagreed with the draft tabled by all the groups through their amendments have been accepted, and that the Government has had enough waist to admit many. But I am sure that if the presentation had been held – and I already know that it is not your responsibility – as provided for in the Rules of Procedure and the presentations should be made, that is, in continuous, regular meetings, seeing article by article, listening not only to the opinion of the Government, but to the opinion of all groups regarding the amendments of all, we would have reached a closer agreement. And that is why we have maintained a large number of amendments which have not been accepted in that paper, which only had one meeting, which surprisingly lasted less than half an hour, and in which, at least to our group, we were told that the text was closed and that what we were going to do was to approve the report of the paper, and that it was already going to committee. It is true that in the past there had been contacts with the Government exclusively..., pardon, through the Nationalist Group, in which certain issues were admitted, but we have missed being able to discuss it within the presentation. To discuss it, because many agreements would have been reached. Because I am sure that there are issues – and that is why we have kept many amendments – there are issues within the law that the rest of the groups would have admitted. I am very surprised that the Socialist Party or the Bildu Group have not accepted amendments concerning the transparency of foundations. I believe that we need to be very exquisite precisely in what is the management of public money, and many of the foundations that we have in this community, to which this law is going to directly affect, are maintaining public money, or those that are not maintaining exclusively public money receive a lot of public money. And here I think it's very important that we have so much transparency, and in this case it seems to me that we are going to stay in the translucency. And I explain myself, Mr Erkoreka. I believe that if we had had the opportunity to debate in the committee at least we would have equated the obligations of the foundations with those of the Commercial Register and the societies. That is, if you and I set up tomorrow (when this legislature is over, obviously) a society together, the next day we register it in the Mercantile Register, and that's public, and you're going to see what part of the ownership is owned by each one, what the economic evolution of our society is, what taxes we pay, what billing we have, and that any citizen can see by accessing the Mercantile Register by very simple and convenient methods for all citizens. On the other hand, we have not reflected this in the foundations, and we had the opportunity to do so. And if it's done for commercial entities, why not for foundations, which manage public interests and public money on most occasions? I would have liked to convince the groups of the need to prohibit or hinder the possibility of creating a foundation so that the patrons, the founders, can benefit from the activity of the foundation; that they cannot work for it, neither they nor the related persons, nor their partners, nor their spouses, nor the close persons (fathers, children, partners, etc., etc.). In that I believe that in a debate held in the paper we would have reached an agreement, because I sincerely believe that it is better for foundations. Nor do I understand why the administrative silence, the silence of the Administration, in the few points on which it appears in the law, is negative. That is to say, the European directives on administrative silence are very clear: administrative silence must be positive, except in cases where there is a general interest which justifies it being negative. I don't see any general interest here that would allow... I know it is more comfortable for the administration and I fully understand the legislators, but we have to think of the citizens, who are going to be affected by that change in the sense or interpretation of that administrative silence. Other issues, such as the Basque Council of Foundations. For we eliminated it from the law, because we thought it was a non-necessary body, because it is actually practically 100 per cent (almost 100 per cent) formed by the Government, and there is already the Government that can do the same functions, and there is no need to create more administration. I understand that you have to slim it down, and not generate more organs, more advice. But surely in a calm debate, if the intention was another, or my clumsiness in understanding the texts..., they would surely have convinced me of what the legislator's intention was. And we have also maintained, Mr Erkoreka, a number of amendments to the explanatory statement, because we start from the basis that, in fact, the explanatory statements of the laws do not have to have a normative value, but they do, I understand, do have a value as a legal instrument to interpret the rules, and more and more often we start to see, in the explanatory statements of this law and of many other laws, of this Parliament and of other parliaments, of this community or of other communities, or of the Congress of Deputies, we find that in the laws, in the explanatory statements, we do from collecting historical aspects to particular opinions, political suffammas... I think we need to be a little more serious, because the lawyers, both those of the Administration and the lawyers, as well as their lords, when applying the laws use the statements of reasons to know many times the meaning that they wanted to give to the legal text their author, the legislator. That is why we maintain this whole series of amendments, although yesterday, and I am sorry for the delay, we withdrew around twenty amendments for it. In order to avoid problems at the time of the vote, we have no problem in voting on all the amendments that the Group of the European People's Party has maintained in a block, and we would ask for a separate vote, Madam President, on Chapter IV. We have not been able to amend Chapter IV because it is the creation of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group. Since we did not have an opinion and in the presentation we have not been given the opportunity to show what our opinion is and what our doubts are about the possibility of the existence of this chapter, we ask for your separate vote in order to abstain, because we have doubts about its viability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u51	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. Basque Socialists, are they going to take the word? No? Okay. The representative of the EH team, Pindo... ? I'll have the vote later. Then Eubertarians. Mr. Ariat-Mr. Aunabeña, your word is... For the vote? Okay. Reply Turn... I don't think so. Then we'll call. Now that the discussion is over, we'll have a vote. The Basque Popular Groups agree together to the 5th, 12th, 15th, 23rd to 26th, 29th, 32, 34th to 39, 42th to 44., 49, 53, 57, 60th to 72th and 65. corrections reserved to articles, and to the fourth regulation, as well as corrections for new articles, and 25. bis, and 28. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 9; contraries, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u52	So they didn't accept it. In this group we're going to do now, I'm warning you that the 1 and 54 articles were connected and that now the correction has been removed. Then they go straight to the undirected ones. The following articles agree: 5. 12.21., and 26., 29., 32, 34., 42 to 44., 49, 53, 57., 60 to 62, and the fourth. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u53	So they're accepted. The Euskal Populars vote for article 4. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 9; contraries, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u54	So he didn't accept it. The Misto-UPyD team vote for article 4. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 1, counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u55	So he didn't accept it. That's the fourth article on the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u56	So it's accepted. The Misto-UPyD team goes to vote on 72. 5th correction made to the article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 1, counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u57	So he didn't accept it. Next they vote together for the 33th article of Euscalia Popula. and corrections 144. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 9; contraries, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u58	So they didn't accept it. Article 33 of the Irritation is put to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u59	So it's accepted. They vote for the popular Basques 47. corrections made to article 151. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 9; contraries, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u60	So he didn't accept it. The Misto-UPyD teams go to vote at 47. six corrections made to the article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 1, counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u61	So he didn't accept it. The 47th article is put to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u62	So it's accepted. The Misto-UPyD team goes to vote for 48. correction made to article 7. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 1, counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u63	So he didn't accept it. They vote for the popular Basque Groups 48. 152 of the article and 154. Corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 9; contraries, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u64	So they didn't accept it. Article 48 of the Renaissance goes to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u65	So it's accepted. The Misto-UPyD teams go to the vote together. and the 8th and 9th Article 64. The corrections made by the popular Euscal and Euskal team are 180 and 181 corrections, which also remove all corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; 10; counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u66	So they didn't accept it. They vote for the '63th and '64' articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u67	So they're accepted. It's agreed that the Misto-UPyD team made the article number seven to create a new transient correction and formation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 1, counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u68	So they didn't accept it. Article 7 goes to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u69	So it's accepted. The articles that don't work together, that is to say, from 1 to 3.6, 8.11, 13. 22. 27. and 28. 31. 40, and 41. 45, and 46., from 50 to 52, from 54, to 56. and 59. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u70	So they're accepted. We shall next vote for 74, which the popular party has asked to take out. Remember 72. that the article will be according to what the technical amendment says. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u71	So they're accepted. In this outfit, 192, the amendment has been retired. Then we will vote for our explanation by the popular Euscals: 188. The corrections between 189 and 191, and 195 to 201. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 9; contraries, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u72	So they didn't accept it. And lastly, the explanation and the name of the law are agreed upon. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u73	So they're accepted. So the Act on the Foundation Funds of Euscal Autonomy in Erdi is approved. We'll start next with the vote. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u74	Thank you, President. Today we bring to this plenary the final adoption of the opinion on the draft law on foundations of the Basque Country. We all agree that foundations have developed for many years, and also today, a very important role in promoting activities of general interest within Basque social life, but the existing norm had to be redrafted, in order to give greater legal certainty to both public administrations and foundations and citizens, adapting it to the new times. I think it is necessary to highlight in my speech the important work carried out by the various parliamentary groups, which have improved the initial draft law and which has been enriched by the contributions made through the various amendments in Parliament. This work has been carried out quite through different meetings and contributions by the groups that have wanted to do it out of paper. We have done so, and as a result of that work we have succeeded in ensuring that all the amendments that we have tabled have either been accepted or have been slept with, so that there is no living amendment to be adopted in this plenary because they have all been incorporated in one way or another into the text that we have adopted today. We will therefore vote in favour of the opinion and against the amendments that have not been agreed by the Group of the European People's Party, and we voted against UPyD, which are the only ones that have reached this plenary. In my speech I will refer very briefly to some of the contributions that have been made by my group. Not all of them, because they don't give time to all of them. We have included, on a socialist initiative, a new power, the sanctioner, in the law of foundations, in order to act as a deterrent to conduct contrary to administrative obligations and as a measure generating confidence also for those who contribute to the financing of these entities, and also to contribute to the development of the foundational project in accordance with the general interest and the will of the founder. To this end, we have incorporated a new chapter, Chapter IV, marking Articles 66 to 74, as well as the corresponding amendments to the explanatory memorandum for their inclusion. It is also important that, on a prior and compulsory basis, before starting any sanctioning procedure on the part of the protectorate, a mediation is to be carried out, which is regulated by article 68 of the draft law, when it has been possible to detect the commission of an offence, requiring prior to the foundation and giving it a period of time to remedy that irregularity. And only when they have fulfilled that requirement, in a second phase would sanctioning power be used. With this no foundation can be found, without having had prior communication, with which a sanction can reach it and not having had knowledge of it, because that would be in breach of the established law, which states that it is mandatory to have to go first through that mediation and that requirement. This shows the intention of wanting to fulfil and ensure that the obligations are fulfilled, rather than the desire to collect this sanctioning procedure, which in no case was. I also have to make it clear that we are proposing an additional sixth provision, which, after reaching a compromise, was incorporated as two new paragraphs in Article 63.1 of the proposal in order to avoid any consequences that this law might have on companies that are involved in the public administration, such as the Hobetuz Foundation. And thus, two new paragraphs were included in the transaction that allow the Administration itself to appoint non-government employers belonging to trade unions or business organizations. It should also be pointed out, in the area of equality, that gender equality has been included among the principles of action and functioning of foundations in the Basque Country, as well as the obligation to draw up equality plans, within this new law, which did not exist in the original text. I've highlighted these as more important. We gave them great importance, but we also incorporated other points that were also approved or fucked. In short, we believe that the text that has been adopted today, after this in-depth work by the various parliamentary groups, is much better technically than the original text, and we are satisfied with the improvement work that has been done, where my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, has included important contributions in this drafting. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u75	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u76	Thank you, ma'am. We have today been able to discuss the bill of law on foundation, and this is not the first time, as has been said, a law in this legislature to regulate the sector of foundation. The 12/1994 Act was a precursor, but it's been years, and besides context, even the sector has developed an enormous development. To answer this new reality, both the third and, of course, the legal, transparency, and efficiency of the public sector required a new law. The entire funding sector is a whole variety. Of those who only perform their activity by volunteering, to the founding of great companies, they are of different kinds, and each has its own peculiar characteristics. This being so, the end of the United States of the United States is that the law is clear by the contributions made to this law, the easy activity of petty foundation, the subjection of conjunction with the foundies, and the strengthening of security for all of them. If this is the end, we introduced 45 corrections to the bill of law, and the corrections which have been agreed on by the mutual agreement of the groups, and the corrections made in the middle course, we may say that our proposition has a direct reflection on the law. We've made different corrections. A lot, as I said, to clear up and complete the articles. I want to emphasise between our other lines. If, on the 21st article, the reconstruction of the patrician has not been completed, it will be granted a new period for the patrician to complete the performance, and not for the immediate preservation of the hand. 32. If, in the article, there be any mistake in the exposition of the annual affairs, the protector will require a document or order to direct, in a given time, the missing patrician of the foundation. In article 49, especially in aid of small foundation, we add to the functions of sponsoring an economic adviser and a storyteller. 54. In the article, before the extreme irregularity of the foundation, the protector will once take possession of it, he will give occasion to the patrician of the foundation to correct the severe irregularity he had felt. In article 26, in favour of improvement and transparency, the act of extortion and charge must every year present the patricians in memory. In article 38, a foundation will have to be communicated to the protection of action. As far as the revenues and incomes of the revenues are concerned, we have added in article 29th, that the general interest of the end of the foundation, and the want of profit of the organization, may be preserved in the article. In regard to the inspection of the funding, 33. we have acquired in the article the change of conditions, which ought to be executed, in the benefit of small foundations. And to strengthen security and transparency, because in the opinion of protectors there are certain circumstances, if the foundation should present an inspection of the matter, the protector must always give reasons. In order to secure the safety of the funding, article 38, a foundation-making can only be rejected by reason. And so it will be 39. in article, it belongs to distinction. 54. in the article, the request for temporary management must also be registered in the foundation register. And in article 49, we introduce the whole of the founding community into the hands of the protectors, in order to preserve its wants and its income. This is the latest text of the law which we have here today, a few improvements which we have contributed to the Basque People in the United States. We've introduced a lot of other technical improvements because this text is rather technical. We hope by this law to strengthen the activity of the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuzia, to facilitate the labor of all who are there, and to facilitate the conjunction of the common sector between the foundation and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. And finally, Mr Arieta-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. We agree with what the chief physician has said, so I will only point out a few points. To make a new law has been required: the rules to apply the foundation to a text, and to introduce technical changes, to adapt the rules above these institutions to new times, even in response to the present demands and necessities of society. It is also a question of improving the channels of dialogue between the public administration and foundations, while providing legal certainty to both the sector and the administration and the citizens themselves. The administrative procedures that citizens must carry out are reduced, and the role of supervision of the protectorate is strengthened. On the principles of action, I would like to highlight good practices and codes of conduct, transparency, impartiality and non-discrimination. As far as administrative silence is concerned, it is negative in one case and it is for the protection of the general interest, in line with European directives. It also facilitates the implementation of the procedures in a telematic way, and a sanctioning regime is introduced, but prior mediation is introduced. And in the end, apart from the regulation of the Public Law, as far as the Civil Law was concerned, this law was obliged to conform to the Civil Law of the present Euskal, in accordance with the 5/2015 law of June 25th of the Civil Law of Euskal. And I'm not going to extend anymore, because I think it's all said. Finally, I would simply like to thank both the sector and the groups for their contributions, and in particular for the willingness of the representatives of the Socialist Group and the EH Bildu Group to act with rigour in the drafting of the law, which contrasts with the absolute pasticism shown by some other group, whose representative has made a vain effort today to justify their attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Forth point on the theme list: "Mution introduced by Gorka Maneiro Labayen Mistto-UPyD members, on the top of the state of the forup disappear. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maniro, your word of honor is to present and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u79	Yes, thank you very much, President. And thank you very much, Mr Arieta, for your references to me and the great political work I do in this Parliament. Thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u80	Okay. Go on, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u81	Yes, I recognize that, I am insistent and determined, I defend the ideas I believe in, I prefer to win debates than votes, I do not mind staying alone if I believe that I defend a just cause, and I am flexible in accessory and firm in essence. Now it is up to you to recognize that this I have just told you is basically true, and that, as a result of my insistence, you have come to change your mind on some occasions. Which is a success above all of you, and not so much of a server. There have been several occasions when UPyD has called, both in the Basque Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies and in other institutions, for the abolition of the embargoes. For example, on 12 June 2014 UPyD defended a parliamentary initiative at the plenary session of this Parliament that proposed it. In that case, we intended to urge the Government of Spain to eliminate the cases of apprehension provided for in the Constitution in the next constitutional reform process, subjecting all parliamentary prerogatives to a review as a whole. Without prejudice to the foregoing, and as long as this constitutional review process takes place, within a maximum of six months it shall promote all necessary legal reforms in order to abolish, within the scope of its competence, each and every one of the cases of encroachment which have proliferated in the various laws. We also proposed to urge the Basque Government, and to commit itself (i.e. Parliament itself) to promote within its sphere of competence all necessary legal reforms with the aim of eliminating all existing cases of forging in the Autonomous Community, subjecting all parliamentary prerogatives to a review as a whole. And we also proposed to urge the general boards of the historic territories and the parliaments themselves to push forward all regulatory reforms for the same purpose. Such a proposal did not receive the support of any other parliamentary group and therefore fell, in the same or similar way as similar initiatives had earlier fallen in other parliaments, and in the specific case also of the Congress of Deputies itself. On that occasion, when we defended in the Congress of Deputies the suppression of the elections, all the groups strongly criticized the UPyD proposal and considered the idea of suppressing the elections in Spain unnecessary. In that case we were attacked and accused of demagogy and populism, and of carrying out, forward, anti-politics. That day, 12 June 2014, the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, voted in favour by the proposing group and by UPyD, which said: "The Basque Parliament considers it appropriate to open a process of examination, reflection and adequacy of the system of guarantees of public office and its limits". A clearly insufficient amendment, in the opinion of our group, even if the commitment to examine and reflect on the issue, in short, was more than anything. At the time, the then Minister of Justice of the Government of Spain, supported by the parliamentary group that vilified the UPyD proposal put forward at the time in Congress, stated in an interview the following: "We propose to move from 17,621 outbursts that exist in Spain to 22,", thus admitting, at least in part, the approaches presented by our political party a few months earlier and that it strongly criticized. In recent times things are changing in Euskadi and in Spain as a whole. If when UPyD proposed the suppression of the outbursts the rest of the political parties called the proposal demagogy, populism or anti-political, it is now generally seen with good eyes. If at the time the rest of the political parties repeatedly voted against, they now even include this proposal in their electoral programmes as a modern, necessary and regenerating measure of democracy. These are things that happen. The last time the matter was discussed was just a couple of months ago in the Spanish Senate, with nothing effective finally approved. At this moment, when things seem to be changing, we consider it appropriate to bring this matter first into full control and finally through this motion to this full. Mr Erkoreka defined me a few days ago as a political columnist and not as a proper parliamentarian. I believe that, given that UPyD has only one parliamentary representative, I do everything I have to do and everything I can. I am not going to be the one to bring here a concrete reform of the Spanish Constitution or the Statute of Gernika for the abolition of the embargoes. The most reasonable thing is to seek the greatest possible consensus among the groups of the House to defend this political position, whether it be the Spanish Government itself, or the Basque Government itself, which will take the necessary steps to proceed with and carry out these reforms. Indeed, the institution of drilling has undergone an unprecedented extraordinary expansion, in the heat of the development of the State of Autonomy and the colonization of the political parties of all the institutions of the State, beginning with justice, but continuing with other areas such as supposedly independent bodies, such as regulatory bodies, ombudsmen and all their autonomic counterparts. First of all, it must be borne in mind that certain judicial proceedings must be known, when they affect certain persons, by a judicial body different from that normally provided for by law. For example, according to article 71.3 of the Constitution, the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court will have jurisdiction in cases against deputies and senators, and article 102.1 extends the prerogative to the President of the Government and his ministers. Why do we say that drilling is a privilege? First of all, the principle of equality is an exception to suffocation. The explanations given at the time by the Constitutional Court in its 1997 ruling are certainly weak (it said that the prerogative of afforestation acts as an instrument for safeguarding the institutional independence of both the General Courts and the judiciary itself), and they would not deserve to be cited if it were not because the reality shows that the effect achieved is precisely the opposite, since the high courts of the State, such as the Supreme Court or the High Court of Justice, are the most likely to politicize, given that in the appointment of their judges the General Council of the Judiciary intervenes directly, whose members in turn appoint political parties through a calculated quota-sharing system. In addition, severance means that, as soon as the investigating judge is informed that he is investigating an offence the responsibility of which may be charged to a severance officer, he must refer it to the competent court, thus losing the case. And that is even if there are other defendants who are not tried, unless it is possible to prosecute separately, which is unusual. The figure of strangulation delays the procedure and causes dysfunctions, and a sense among citizens that justice is not the same for all. And we want justice to be equal for all and for all to be treated equally before it. To have the status of being tried also has some negative consequence, certainly, such as the loss in some cases of the right to the second instance, which is particularly detrimental to all those who are not tried by the accused being tried before a court other than his natural who would be responsible for the application of the normal rules of attribution of jurisdiction. All of this would, in our view, be sufficient to banish the form of stifling of our legal system, even if such a matter affected only one person. But it doesn't affect a single person, it affects thousands of people in Spain. In Spain thousands of people are caught up (also us), more than ten thousand, while in the countries of our environment there are hardly caught up. In some countries there are ten, in others three, in others two, and in many others there is not a single hole. And it is that not only are the parliamentarians and senators of the nation before the Supreme Court caught up in our country, but, by emulation, the various autonomous communities have done the same, extending that privilege to the autonomous parliamentarians, the autonomous presidents and members of the regional government. To such persons can be added an immense number of public figures, such as the members of the judiciary, the judges of the Supreme Court and the National Court, the President of the High Court of Justice, the prosecutors of the Chamber of the Supreme Court and the National Court, the Ombudsman, the deputies of the Ombudsman, the advisers of the Court of Auditors and the Council of State, the army generals, the admirals, the public prosecutor, the defenders of the autonomous people, and the members of the National Police, the Civil Guard, the autonomous police and even the local police. Some have gone to the Supreme Court, others to the higher courts of justice, and others to provincial hearings. Obviously, not all of these drilling assumptions are just as serious. Undoubtedly, the most harmful are those who affect the positions of political designation, in our opinion, not only because of the greater public relevance they have their crimes, but because the very existence of the stifling is perceived by the citizenry – and this is important – as a privilege created in order to protect such positions from possible accusations of political corruption, increasing the feeling of impunity of the political class and the detachment of the citizenry. But, apart from the fact that not all the assumptions are equal to serious, there is no reason for their maintenance, especially when the above-mentioned figure of more than ten thousand pinholes is compared to that in other countries of our environment, such as Portugal and Italy, where there is no more pinhole than the President of the Republic, or France, where there are around ten pinholes, and another one like Germany or the United Kingdom, where there is no single pinhole at present. That is why we are putting forward the same motion that we defended two years ago, because we believe that we must take the necessary steps to suppress all the outbursts that exist in Euskadi and Spain. Certainly, and despite the fact that the motion tabled by UPyD is the same as that tabled two years ago, fortunately the amendments of the different groups have been clearly different, especially in some cases. All of them, one way or another, came to coincide with at least some of the arguments put forward by UPyD. That is why we saw the sure possibility that we could finally reach a transactional that could receive the support of most groups. It seems, from what I am told, that this compromise that we have signed with the Socialist Group could finally be supported, I do not know whether by all the groups, but by most of the groups, and it will finally come forward. The compromise amendment will be distributed shortly, if it has not already been, but, in any case, what is proposed is to urge the General Courts, to urge the Government of Spain and to urge the Basque Government to push all necessary legal reforms, including the constitutional ones, so that the figure of the hanging ceases to exist in Spain. Our political position, defended in time, is that there is not a single outburst in Spain. It is possible that at this point some of the groups defend different things. Our position is that. We believe that all citizens have to be treated equally before justice, that there can be no difference, that justice is equal for all, and that, therefore, this anachronistic figure, and that we think is a privilege, must be abolished as soon as possible. Nothing more. And thanks to Mrs Gallastegui, for signing this transaction with UPyD, and to the other groups who are finally going to vote in favour of this amendment. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u82	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Aguirre, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u83	Thank you, ma'am. As the President of UUPyD has said, the subject of the state of the forup was discussed in this legislature nearly two years ago. He has brought back the subject to this Chamber, a proposition which he now accepted, and which he accepted, because it remained in nothing, and was considered in the Senate in March. Two years ago, the Basque Country said that the state of the forup is opposed to the principle of equality without justification, or, in other words, to make an exception to the principle of equality. For the cause of these two kinds is that the body produces them; the first division, those in the state of the forup, the members of the legislature, the Alemania, the Borders, the constables, the prosecutors, the judges, etc., etc., etc., and all the other citizens. Not everyone has the same deal in front of the Justice Administration. In recent years, an image and a perception of the population has been spread, that those who are in a state of importance are in a privileged state. It is a privilege that all the politicians who are connected with corruption use this privilege. It is a picture transmitted that justice is not the same for all, and that supposed corruptive politicians have a privileged and distinct status from any other citizen. In fact, judicial proceedings are further retarded in the process of corruption, and we have the last examples. This leads us to enlarge the distance of their representatives, and to create in our society a dislike and dislike of them, it has become a real question of society. People have a sense of impunity, they are suspicious, they are suspicious. We need an answer to this. From our point of view, there is no longer any point of meaning in the maintenance of the fort by the members of the law, by the members of the government, by the border, by the police, by the prosecutors, by the judges, etc., and so on. It's just a look at Europe. The state of the forup has disappeared in several local States, or, if it has not disappeared, it is very much diminished; Portugal, Germany, Italy, Great Britain, Ireland (which are very strict rules at this time), or, farther away, the United States. The state of the legislature in the State of Euscal Autonomy, in the State of Erria, is acknowledged in article 26.6, and to the President and the Government in article 32.2. It was considered appropriate for the circumstances of that time. But it's been so many years and you have to update it. The update supposes that the Basque Country is suspended, and that's the way the Basque People are introduced by the Communion of their amendments. We also place the way to cancel the state of the forup on the table: and the 15th article of the Rule of the Parliament. And he does the same thing in cases which are in another state of importance. Seeing the proposals of the other teams, it seemed to me that agreement can be obtained quite quickly. As a matter of fact, we're here to collect the Basque People, a Social Socialist Party andUPyD on the subject of suspending this situation. Even the Jelt Party is not far away. "It's a destination... "In this way," says he, "to renounce this condition, or at least to diminish the number of those who are in it." Literately taken from the general correction which the representative of the EUGIST Party has made. So the door leaves them open to disappear in order to see the proposals which have been made by the teams here. We don't know how PP will act. We do not know whether Gallarardon stands up for the example of Cfuentes or whether PP has defended it in Katalunia. The representative of the PP will explain it to us. Difference, in my opinion, is not an ideologically aphorition or affluent condition, but how this is done. And as for the manner in which this is done, EAJ, the Socialists of the Party andUPyD look chiefly at Madrid. We, on the other hand, are in favor of the action here for the people here, and therefore have submitted the full correction. We've noticed this one because we're trying to do it here, and that's what we've put it into. That's why we've put Arba, Bizka, and Gipuzia together. In fact, there's another reason right here in the corner that we don't want any advantage. We don't want the independence of the Spanish State. And seeing what the Populian Party has done in this law, it is precisely that he has left the institutional architecture here in the bone and has emptied it, we are afraid of the half-way he has presented himself to us. For the first time, except for the Jeltzai of the Euran Party, who has not come near us, though he knows that there may be a slight agreement in the heart of the forup. No one came near: don't play Socialist, not UPD. Then, apart from that of the middle term, we must say that we will not vote against it. But we're so fucking scared of what you signed today. We're afraid and we don't like it much, and especially we don't like the first half-way paragraph. The first paragraph, in short, can do what the popular Party and the Socialist Sobriro Spallor has hitherto done about this member of the Renaissance, and we know your style, because we know him, and we know him, to remove all the competitions from this here. We're so fucking scared of that. What I said, the Populous Party has left behind the state here, and we are afraid that there is no such intention, no will, no such purpose. No, don't do me like that, Mrs. Gallastegui. Don't do that to me, don't do that to me, because, well, there can be a very, very, very important interference here. Anyway, going to the point, going to what we are dealing with today – this gaur treattzen ari gazzana da, hain zuzen ere, forupeko egoeraren aurrean Legebiltzar honek zein jarrera hartu behar duen –, gu, esan bezala, ez gaude forupeko egoeraren aurka. Beraz, ez dugu zailduko, ez dugu oztopatuk gaur erdibidekoan posetzen dena.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u84	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u85	Thank you, President. Well, good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Preliminary question, Mr. Shake it up. Let us see, I deeply regret that you have had this feeling that this amendment is intended to interfere in it. I have not yet fully understood what, but I would like to say to you, of course, that..., regardless of whether I personally believe that the whole amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, our Socialist Group, in particular the amendment that we tabled, seemed to me to be much more appropriate, much more accurate than the one that we have come to sign in order to achieve a consensus that seems necessary when it comes to positioning ourselves in relation to an institution as it may be to forging. Indeed, Mr Maneiro, as you were starting your speech, we have discussed the situation in this Parliament several times, and we have come to agree that it is a situation that needs to be reviewed. And that the core of the debate should be not just the stalemate, that is, the place where we should be prosecuted, but to prevent impunity by all means. Two years ago this House endorsed the position that we Socialists had taken, which was to open up a reflection and adequacy of the system of guarantees for public office and also its limits. Indeed, it was a limited endorsement, because we actually only support the proponents of that text and you, who are the one who brings the matter back to the rostrum today. From the rest of the groups, I was not very clear about the position. I think I remember that Bildu spoke fundamentally of the exceptional nature of the National Court, that we could return to it during this debate, especially because we have had recent situations that have reminded us of that. And yet it was not very clear to me what the position of the Basque Nationalist Party was, nor was it very clear to me what the position of the People's Party was. In any case, it seems that things have changed, and indeed it has been two years and things have changed and things have happened. It has happened that this reflection has occurred, I understand that this reflection that we were talking about has occurred, and it seems appropriate to say that it is indisputable that severance, especially procedural severance, breaks, breaks and is an exception – as the representative of the EH Bildu group has come to say today – is an exception to the principle of equality before the law. And that all the reasons known to everyone that they could endorse before an institution such as stifling existed have ceased to be sufficient to justify the break-up of that principle of equality, and have also ceased to be sufficient and proportionate to achieve the intended ends. At this time we have also seen many other things. We have seen that there are those who want to give up the drilling and cannot, and we have also seen those who take refuge in the drilling to sit on a bench in delay, to delay the moment of the oral trial by relying on immunity, with the claim to transform it into impunity for the simple passage of time. In view of all this, Mr Maneiro, we Socialists are going to acknowledge that it is opportune for us to talk about this, and that we have new data. In fact, it was the Socialists who, as you have already commented and as Mr Agirrezela has also commented... By the way, I have to say that I liked your speech very much; it is very much like the speech of our representative Senator Rodriguez Left in the Senate. It's been very... , very similar. And we have, as I say, the consideration that it is indeed necessary for us to talk about this. And I say this because we were the ones who started this debate again in the Senate Constitutional Commission, and we did it the way we had to do it, and that is what we proposed in our amendment, which is nothing other than the constitutional reform, in which, among other things, we will have to consider the abolition of the embargoes. And also – we say it here – here we have to do the statutory reform. Then I do not think that there is any interference, because, among other things, we will see what you propose about the Members and Senators you may have in the upcoming EH Bildu elections and who are part of the General Courts of Spain. You'll explain it to me later, in your case. That is to say, we left them out of the way, and we only decided what happened to the Basque representatives in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, that is to say, in this Parliament. The truth is that everyone here is now getting their mouths filled with this subject of the elections, and it seems to me very well, because I am convinced that everyone who sits in this House and that we are also going to run for election, that we represent parties that are going to run for election within a few days, we would get out of here enchanted and very ufani saying "We are going to eliminate all the elections tomorrow, because this is nothing more than a matter of political will", but I think I can explain, for example, a situation that can be given and that is the next one. If we could give up our strenght only with political, personal and non-transferable will, in the end we would probably do so on certain occasions, and I will set an example for you. Citizens pay us a salary, and I believe that they sincerely do not pay us so that we are every day of court in court, in lawsuits and appeals because, for example, an organization that calls itself a union but that the judge, justice has considered it a criminal organization, as it is Clean Hands, it comes to trying to blackmail our ideas and our political actions. So let's take the debate to its place. And the site of this debate is the guarantees, how we ensure that certain functions, such as those of public offices or those of certain public officials, can be developed. That is the main issue. And it is also true that, if there are guarantees that they do not have to pass because they judge us courts that are not ordinary, we fully agree. Because if there is indeed something, as Mr Agirrezala said, and as our representative in the Senate also said when he presented this initiative, it is that if there is something that is clear today, and it is also peaceful, but absolutely peaceful, it is that citizens perceive the institution of procedural restraint as an unnecessary privilege, which creates a distance between that citizenship and its representatives, especially when they come to some unjustifiable situations of clinging to the seat, which are explained solely and solely by the interest of exhausting the last resources to avoid a judicial investigation. Indeed, as I said before, Mr Maneiro, we spoke two years ago, and I believe that what I said to him two years ago is useful right now for what I am going to say to him now and what I have been saying to him now. I believe that we have opened this debate, and we must agree and agree. That is why we are talking about establishing the system of guarantees, in this case of public representatives, in order to be able to carry out their work well. And I think the best we can do is try to reach a consensus and reach an agreement, because these kinds of reforms absolutely need a consensus... let's say maximum. In other words, everyone has to feel comfortable in these kinds of reforms in order to be able to access, in the end, to achieve what is desired, which is actually that the citizenry does not perceive a distance between the administered and the representatives of the administered. And I also told him on that occasion that this reflection was not just a toast to the sun, and in fact things are changing substantially, because a constitutional reform is being proposed by political groups. And it must apply not only to the subject of suffocation, but also to the application of justice in general, which I believe we will have an opportunity to speak soon, because tomorrow you have a motion in that sense that surely leads to another motion like this (you have an inquiry, forgiveness). And ultimately, Mr. Maneiro, you know that we have to give all this a proper fit that goes through the constitutional reform (Mr. Agirrezabalaga, is that you cannot go through any other way), and here through a statutory reform. So, to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, clearly, we believe that the trial of politicians in courts other than ordinary courts has been a figure which has had a raison d'être, but the problem is, on the one hand, that it has been used in a perverse way, and, on the other hand, the problem is that not many of the guarantees sought with this figure are obtained either. As this is the reality, what we have to do is review the system, but let's do it in a legal way, changing the laws that need to be changed, which are rules that require broad consensus. And those changes that are required we can start moving quickly. In three weeks there are elections (there are elections!), and in five months there will be others here, or four months. Let us plan all these reforms already studied to bring them to the knowledge of the citizenry, let us commit ourselves firmly to making the changes that we have to make and that will ensure that the principle of equality before the law is equal for all (that is why it is called the principle of equality), and that we ensure that public offices carry out all our functions in freedom, without coercion. That is the main issue, a compromise, and that is what we are calling for with this amendment. Indeed, it could have been better, in fact I think ours was the best, and I repeat it again, but, in any case, I request the support of the whole House for this, because at the end of the day it is about guaranteeing the principle of equality...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u86	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u87	... of all citizens before the law. (I'm finishing.) And to ensure that public offices can carry out all their functions freely. The Socialist Group's commitment is here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u89	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning. Well, Mr. Maneiro, yesterday at noon you participated in a well-known political chatter on a private television channel, and left one of those round phrases, quite yours by the way. They were referring to the time since the general election last December, and you said textually: "It has been an unbearable media circus starring the four main political parties. There has been no real debate. There has been no debate of ideas." Well, Mr. Maneiro, I cannot agree more with you in this particular instance. And the general consensus is that in the General Courts there has been a lot of activity in these five months, but that it was not oriented to government action, but that, as a representative of the Basque Nationalist Party has said, it was an apocryphal election campaign. That is, a confrontation between parties, rather than... in a pseudo-electoral logic, but with an appearance of normalized parliamentary activity. What has happened in Madrid during these months of unborn legislature? Inability to speak and to agree; gestures and statements in front of the gallery, words without content; tweets, retweets, selfies... Pure posture, or, rather, imposture. What you yourself call a "media circle." Well, Mr Maneiro, do you know what one of the few initiatives, and the most poached, has been in this very short apocryphal legislature? Precisely a very similar one that you bring us here today. And at the door of another election campaign, which casually has you as a candidate, asks us to participate in another circus in greater glory of Gorka Maneiro and UPyD. With all due respect, I say to you that the Basque Parliament cannot serve as a tool for your campaign. Returning to what you said yesterday, Mr. Maneiro, are you really in a debate of ideas? We were hoping to have a debate of ideas, but what we found is a sort of bet on the stage where I won't waste too much time. To begin with, in this legislature, the squabbles have already been the subject of debate and reflection, and, curiously, at the moment, in the beginnings of the legislature, we have recovered the discussion on this figure. Why? Because you want to convey the image to the public that you are against squandering. You want to convey that the UPyD proposals are opening up, despite the opposition of the establishment and of bipartisanism. It does not seem to us that the concern or the impetus that moves you is really the equality of citizens before the law, because, in order to combine these declarations in favor of equality, it is not understood that initiatives that generate an unusual totum revolution, which have all the appearance of opportunism and occurrences, are then combined. It is clear, Mr Maneiro, that in Spain, in the Kingdom of Spain, there is a level of strenght which has no comparison in another democratic European state: more than a quarter of a million strenghts in their different versions, more than 250,000. The stalemate was born as a guarantee of freedom of expression and political action and freedom in the field of the administration of justice; but it is true that after the transition the volume of stalemate was too widespread. And that is why we see the need for a deep and balanced reflection, technically solvent and well-established, which can be accepted with a very broad consensus, as we are talking about fundamental values in the construction of a democratic society. In that regard, I would like to grant you that we have a constitutionally pending debate on what level of restraint is appropriate, and that is why my group, Mr Abertzaleak, will vote in favour of the compromise, and I also announce the withdrawal of our amendment. But the formulation of the legal amendments by which the candidate Maneiro advocates must be preceded by a comparative study of the models existing in our environment, analyzing the different alternatives proposed both at the state level and in the autonomic sphere. This whole universe of strangulations of one type and another must be reviewed, but in a context of serious debate. UPyD and Mr Maneiro claim to be heirs to the best traditions of liberal democracy. The irony of fate now causes them to throw at a figure created by this current of thought. The figure has persisted over time to prevent the instrumentalization of justice and the opening of cases against political representatives for spurious influence, pressure or motivation. What does slogging mean? It must be a democratic guarantee (it must be a democratic guarantee, it must be a protection), not a privilege, as has been said here. Persons who have been beaten are also tried, and they are not exempted from trial. The difference lies in the decision-making body, since, instead of being a judge, a one-person body, it is a collegiate body, either a superior court of justice of an autonomous community or the Supreme Court. The Spanish State is defined as a social, democratic and legal state, which promotes equality, justice, freedom and political pluralism as higher values within the legal system. In the democratic State, the best guarantee to prevent the instrumentalization of politics during the arrest or criminal prosecution of a parliamentarian is the maximum independence of judges and magistrates, as well as the separation of powers from the State. The problem of strangulation is inseparable from the lack of judicial independence. What the Kingdom of Spain needs is an agile and independent justice in all instances, because justice is what gives ultimate legitimacy to democracy. The degree of politicization of the courts is higher as the hierarchy rises: the investigating judges have reached their post by opposition; those of the Supreme Court are elected by the General Council of the Judiciary, whose members are appointed on the proposal of Congress. Politicization has always existed, but has reached its peak since the transition following the last reform of the General Council of the Judiciary. We are, therefore, in a deteriorated democracy, because we cannot talk about democracy when justice is manipulated and used, and constitutional and democratic rules of play are broken. Stuffing must be the tool to guarantee the independence of institutions, it is the guarantee to maintain the independence of both the legislative and judicial branches, but it can be said that the figure has been laminated by the procedural strategy and the tactics of some accused or prosecuted or their respective parties. The problem is the misuse that has been made of these tools over the years. And in some cases also along with some mechanisms of intrusion of the executive and legislative powers into the judiciary. I believe that the problem is not the inviolability, immunity, or stifling, but the misuse, which has led citizens to associate directly stifling and parliamentary prerogatives with impunity. Something, as has been said before, that is not true. Some have chosen the easiest formula, to remove all the holes. You have said that, Mr Maneiro: we must abolish all the obstacles. You may not agree, I ask. Let's look at which yes and which no. In this regard, it is true that the elected posts are not the same as the appointed posts, which are held by the high offices of the public administration. It is not the same to be held up because one is a judge, or to be held up because one is a member of State security. Talking about the suppression of politicians' privileges has undoubtedly a citizen's acceptance in the current social context. Get the message right now. But, in the wider group of strikers (military, police, judges, magistrates), the group of politicians is the smallest. It is a debate that has a deep legal nature, and we have to be rigorous when we deal with it. We have to focus the debate on its fair terms, which in this case are not just politicians. This was approved in this House two years ago, where it was proposed to reflect on the extent to which the figure of strangulation should have. In this case, the order of factors, Mr Maneiro, does alter the product. You know that the Basque Nationalist Party has been critical of the figure of the struggle. We are in favour of supporting the reflection processes that may arise in all the forums that have taken place and for having a view to putting forward their reform or their revision or promoting their suppression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u90	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Passing over to the group that hasn't been running any corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u91	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Eguerdi on guztioi. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Sometimes I have the bitter feeling that it is politics itself, or it is we who are engaged in politics who are responsible, with strenuous efforts, for discrediting the exercise of politics itself. You race to see who before, who more, who stronger, who more intensely, and in this case as if to eliminate the institution of strangulation – on which I will now enter the bottom – was the cornerstone of political regeneration. Defining so or sustaining a hypothetical improvement in the exercise of politics, and therefore also a political regeneration or modernization of the exercise of politics, around the suppression of suffocation, is in any case inaccurate, unjust, and surely a profound error. But it is appropriate to differentiate in this debate two aspects, at least two, although it is complicated. On the one hand, the legal aspect, the legal nature of this tool, of this institution, which is debatable by its legal nature, but is an objective fact. And on the other hand, its political nature, on which, of course, the substantive debate falls. Its political nature and therefore also its hypothetical abuse. The afforestation, which in recent times, as we all know, becomes a controversial figure, and as Mr Latxaga has recalled above, has its origin nothing more and nothing less than in medieval England, in which it was intended to protect the political representatives of the monarch's power. That then also takes the witness also the revolutionary or post-liberal France itself, in which it is already more concrete and in which it becomes something more similar to the hanging on which we are debating today. The reality is that today, in the middle of the 21st century, it is known by a vast majority – I have no doubt at all that the whole of this House – that strenght is not established or justified in the interests of the person caught, but it is in the public service's attention that the exercise of that office itself entails. Therefore, the aim is to protect members of the Government and parliaments from hypothetical complaints of content and abusive nature, from a strictly legal point of view. Its purpose, therefore, is to protect the independence of both the legislative and the judicial system from potential external pressures as objective data. We are therefore talking about a purely procedural aspect. Procedural. No one is free from the action of justice because of being hanged. This is something I think we can all agree on. Following that fair, supposedly fair and calm analysis, I recognize that it is also complicated in these times (not by pre-elections, but by the times in general), it should be recognized that the severance also implies, in exchange for being tried by a higher body than the investigating body of the place of commission of the crime, that the political representatives who have this prerogative suffer a restriction in the regime of remedies against the sentence that may also be detrimental to the severance itself. And recent examples we also have some. And that the supplication, therefore, on which the legislative chambers must pronounce, gives a loudspeaker and publicity to the possible complaint. But it is no less true also that denial, a hypothetical denial of supplication by a legislative chamber, would also imply an injury to effective judicial guardianship. We should therefore agree that strangulation is not a personal privilege, but rather a prerogative. In this I understand that we all agree: we are not talking about a privilege, but it is a prerogative. What happens is that the times change, for some things to better and for others to worse (in this case probably to better); that democracies, like ours, are perfected, and that the institutions – this too, I mean that of the drilling – can be modified. Today, therefore, we can also say that after forty years of institutional democracy in Spain we have an independent judiciary, with its imperfections but independence, and that neither the General Courts nor the autonomous parliaments should fear interference from the head of State, in any case. Therefore, and since we are neither in medieval England nor in post-revolutionary France, and our democracy and division of powers are perfected, we can also understand that this institution can be modified. Nor are we faced with a figure that affects only politicians, and this should be said and remembered. Moreover, politicians are a minority as far as Spain is concerned. And this, by the way, I say not as a discharge from politicians, but as a reflection of a faithful image of reality. Because if the general data..., there are several estimates, but if the more consensual data estimate that there are around 10,000 people in Spain, 10,000 institutional positions in Spain, nothing more and nothing less than 7,000 of those positions in Spain would be for prosecutors, judges and magistrates; hundreds, even thousands, for state security forces and bodies, and then there would also be politicians. There is a debate which is national in scope on drilling, on which it is not wrong (and we do not think it is wrong, logically) that this Parliament should speak, because we also care about what is happening in Spain as a whole, obviously, but there is a decision which is for us, a decision on which we do not have to wait for anyone and on which the debate can take place in this House, can be approved in this House, which is what we do with the institution of drilling in Euskadi. All right, there is nothing wrong with us urging the General Courts to do what they do, although we all have representatives in General Courts (except Mr Maneiro, but perhaps in the next legislature he has a qualified representation), but here we have a possible debate without waiting for anyone and without looking elsewhere. Therefore, we could have perfectly promoted throughout this parliamentary term – but we will certainly do so over the next one – a modification, a reform of Article 26.6 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country that eliminates and eliminates the figure of the stifling. Without extending further (I have left the motion...), we will support, the People's Parliamentary Group will support the compromise amendment agreed by the parliamentary groups that sign it. I just wanted to make two comments. In the first paragraph, when the Basque Parliament says that it urges the General Courts that in the next parliamentary term..., well, you should know – I think you already know, but I will remember it – that the constitution of a paper is approved in the Senate itself to study the suppression of suffocation, with which it would be redundant about something that you have already decided in General Courts that will be done. As you are also aware, there is an express provision of Organic Law 3/2015 of 30 March, this law that is controlling the economic and financial activity of political parties, which already provides – by the way, a law, better promoted, by the Government of the People's Party in the previous legislature and supported by some parliamentary group – that already speaks of the elimination of the suffocation. These are things that have changed with regard to the last debates we have had in this House. And in the second paragraph, an issue that we do not share, but which will not cause us not to support this compromise amendment, and that is that, when the second paragraph is completed, saying that "since such a forecast" – in reference to suffocation – "constitutes a breach of the principle of equality before the law", it is wrong, because it is the Constitutional Court itself, in its judgment of 22/1997 of 11 February, that grants full constitutional suffocation. In other words, it is constitutional in accordance with the judgement of the Constitutional Court itself; therefore, it does not break the principle of equality before the law. Another thing is that the legislator understands that politically the figure of the hanging has lost force, effectiveness, and that it can give rise to abuses, if any; but that it is a constitutional figure, with a perfectly understandable and debatable legal nature, is inexcusable, is unquestionable. That it is also subject to its demagogic debate is no less obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u92	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u93	Yes, thank you, President. One thing first of all: the groups who consider that the stalemate should not be abolished are in time and can vote against this initiative. That is to say, it is not because we are in the pre-election period that you are going to vote in favour of the abolition of the elections, because in some specific case I have come to hear that it is a necessary figure. With this, in the end, what we want is to raise a debate and defend some ideas in which we believe; if you do not believe in these ideas or do not believe in the transactional that we have signed, you can quietly vote against it. That is to say, we want them to vote because they believe it, because they do think that the institution should be abolished. That is what we claim in this compromise we have agreed and I myself have agreed both with the Socialist Group and even with the Basque Nationalist Party, even though it has finally been left out, because I, of course, want this initiative to go ahead with as many votes as possible. And I am already grateful to all the groups that are going to vote in favour, but that is out of conviction, because I believe that the compromise signed is clear enough. By the way, it's a transactional very similar to the one I defended in June 2014. It's basically the same thing. And he received seventy-four votes against. But I understand that things certainly change, and that you have changed your position. And it's nothing like that, and I'm glad, and indeed, if you guys are finally going to vote for this, we're celebrating it. You, all of you have persistently repeated that there are things that have changed in recent times. It is true, and they have changed their position, apparently, in relation to suffocation, because, as I said, this compromise that is finally going to be voted on is basically the same as that which I defended in June 2014 and which is very simple to understand, and that there is no reason to go into technicalism. It is a matter of deleting this figure, nothing more and nothing less, for the reasons I have explained in my first speech and which I believe are perfectly explained and justified. Mr. Agirrezela said we looked at Madrid. We have to look at Madrid, because there are certain laws, including obviously the reform of the Constitution, which do not depend on us, but depend on the Congress of Deputies, and therefore we must urge the Courts to initiate such reform. That is why we urge the Courts. Moreover, I think it is very difficult to justify that EH Bildu is going to be left alone at this time, abstaining from this compromise that will be supported by all the other groups. But, finally, there's everyone. Mrs Gallastegui said that preventing impunity is more important than the place where the defendants are tried, and I basically agree, what happens is that the place where the defendants are tried can result in impunity and that certain people have a different judgment than they would have in the event that they were not shot and were therefore ordinary citizens, like everyone else. That is why we want to abolish this institution. Because, as I said at first, the Supreme Court or the higher courts of justice, in addition to the Constitutional Court, are politicized courts, and the members of the Supreme Court and also of the Constitutional Court are elected by the political parties themselves. Therefore, if those members of those political parties are subsequently tried, it is clear that they may be suspected of being treated differently from any other citizen. Mrs Gallastegui said that we should put forward all these reforms so that appropriate steps can be taken. We will insist, at least in the case of UPyD. We've been doing it since 2007. We were almost always left alone in these kinds of initiatives; now things are changing and we are even getting these kinds of initiatives to come forward. Mr Latxaga, the media circus is the posture, the statements on television, the press conferences that are useless, all that kind of political game that we've had for the past five months and that I've been criticizing for weeks. That's the media circus. The media circus is not for a parliamentarian to bring to an institution a concrete proposal to implement the legal reforms necessary to end an institution that we consider unfair. This isn't a media circus. This is to defend some ideas you believe in and try to carry them forward. I have defended it on several occasions; it has now coincided that there are elections, but I also defended something similar years ago. And, therefore, the media circus is that of other political parties perhaps in other forums, but obviously not ours. I do not agree that the problem was misuse or abuse of strangulation. I believe that it is the very figure of the struggle that must be suppressed, simply because of its very existence and because it allows certain citizens to be treated differently from the rest of the citizens, nothing more and nothing less...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u94	Finish up, Mr. Maniro...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u95	And we want equal justice for all. I didn't just talk about politicians, I didn't just talk about public office. I have put forward a very long list, because this institution affects many other people. And we want to suppress, in any case, all the stumbling blocks. Therefore, we have not done any kind of demagogy. Nor have I said that the suppression of the squabbles is the cornerstone of political regeneration, Mr Semper. I didn't say that. If I had said that, you could have said that that was inaccurate and unfair, but I didn't say that. This is one of those measures that must be carried out together with many others. This is not going to solve all the problems in Spain, but I think it is one of those measures that is certainly indispensable to carry out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u96	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u97	Excuse me, President. As I think all the groups are going to vote in favour, except for Bildu, who is going to abstain, I do not want to recall the things that were said to me in this House two years ago by some of you, when there was talk of demagogy, when there was talk of anti-politics or when the UPyD position was criticized. The important thing is that we now agree on the fundamentals.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u98	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u99	Thank you, and I celebrate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. EHGG rep. Mr. Aguirre, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u101	Thank you, ma'am. And very briefly, for two interactions. Mr. Maneiro, you haven't been very fine in your second... in your turn of replica, because, first of all, you haven't been right about what the numbers are. That we all vote against your proposal of 12 June 2014. That is not true, look at the minutes of the sessions then: those who voted against were fifty-three. EH Bildu did not vote against it. So, it hasn't been very fine. Second assessment, second point, which says... Well, I don't know what he said anymore, because he finally said that we're still voting in favour, that he's going to abstain... I don't know. Well, let him be very clear: Euskal Herria Bildu will vote in favour of the proposal, of the erdibidekoa, of the transactional that you have signed. Because, I said, you, UPyD, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, are very afraid of us, I said it in my first speech, but of course what we do have very clearly is what our position is, what our position is with respect to stifling. And we clearly say "no" to stumbling. As for what Mrs Gallastegui was asking me, well, I have to admit... Look, I'm not a lawyer, and then I have to drink from some sources. So, one of the sources... I'm not going to reveal all the sources to you, but one of the sources is Wikipedia. And it is quite possible that the representative of his party in the Senate drank from the same source, but it is that Mr. Maneiro also drinks from the same source! Just look at Mr. Maneiro's question to Mr. Erkoreka: much of it is taken from Wikipedia. But, well, as I've pulled from those fountains, well, well, I've taken some things, I won't deny it. But, well, let's go to the three points you raised here on the table. First of all, I was told that Bildu, with regard to the debate we had two years ago, well, we had a tour. No, no, Mrs. Gallastegui! The tour has been done by you! The tour has been done by you. It has nothing more to do with what you proposed here the previous time, that what you proposed was that you consider it appropriate to open a process of examination and reflection, and today we have, in fact, come up with a much clearer position. But what Euskal Herria Bildu has put forward today is the same thing he said two years ago: "The Basque Parliament calls for the necessary legal reforms to ensure that all citizens, including public officials, receive the same treatment before the Administration of Justice." That's what we've been defending today. It is also true, and in that I give you the reason, that we have been talking about exceptionality, and I ratify myself, I ratify myself, but we will have time for that. Mr Arzuaga will take care of it. However – and I ratify what we said then – there are still episodes of persecution and arbitrary accusations of opinions or political statements by public officials (two years later); "for this reason, the Basque Parliament urges the Spanish Government to push a legislative framework to suspend the courts, regulations and emergency laws, such as, among others, the National Court and the Party Act". We also brought that topic, but today we wanted to separate it because we will talk it more slowly at another time. Third question. He was telling me that EH Bildu, to see what we're going to vote for in Congress or in the Senate when we are, because we will be. I don't know how you doubt this, Mrs Gallastegui! I do not know how much you doubt this, because what we do know is that the position that we have maintained and that we maintain in this Basque Parliament we will maintain it also in Congress and we will maintain it also in the Senate. There, you have no doubt about it. Thirdly, the issue of interference. I believe that you only look at the issue of interference from a legal point of view. And from the legal point of view there are two issues that seem important to me, that is that the modification of the statutes of autonomy is regulated by the statutes of autonomy (first question), and, second question, an amendment to the Spanish Constitution would mean that one of the articles of Chapter III of Title VIII would have to be amended. That is why I was telling you, from a legal point of view, that it is a major interference, a serious interference. And I have focused on it from another point of view, which is from a political point of view. And from the political point of view – and here I am going to draw from the Journal of Sessions of the Senate; I reveal my second source – that the representative of ERC said, and that of course we fully share: "In Catalonia we have started a constituent participatory process, in which the citizens will be the ones who will draft the constitutional text that in their day will be submitted to the referendum of the sovereign people, and I think it is time that in Spain they began to do the same, because in one state, Spain or Catalonia, the sovereign is only one, the people". We totally agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u102	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u103	Well, good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. For you the fat bitch, Mr. Maneiro. I have no problem in accepting that you are the absolute promoter of all the changes that have to do with the rights of citizens in this country. In this case, all I want to do is thank the groups that have shown their support for this compromise amendment, which I believe is substantially improving what we intend to do, at least, and in this regard it seems to me to be very important. Mr Agirrezala, you had very clear what was the source, that is, what was the source of your speeches, because you directly shot the Journal of Sessions of the Senate when you refer to interference – and I start at the end – because you have translated directly and exactly what Mr Cazalis, representative of the Basque Parliamentary Group, said in the Senate, but literally, including comas and breaks. And to show you a button, that is, I invite parliamentarians to see... Moreover, there is no such problem here, because we are already saying in the third paragraph of our compromise amendment that the reform, and the desperation in its case of the Basque parliamentarians, and in its case of the lehendakari and the members of the Government, will reside in amendment of the Statute of Autonomy. Therefore, I do not see what interference you read in this amendment, because what Mr Cazalis was talking about was another matter, and what you have done has been to read what you have written, to transcribe it, but there is no approach as to how this amendment that we are proposing in the constitutional or the Statute will be made here. I mean, you'll make up your mind. And what we are also saying is that we have to decide with the maximum possible consensus, and there is no reason why there should be any statutory change in that way, in the way of constitutional reform, and less when it comes to establishing the criteria of desperation, or to establishing guarantees for autonomous parliamentarians. Nor have I told you what you are going to vote for at Cortes Generales in Spain. I have told you what you are going to do with the Basque Parliamentarians of the Bildu Group in Spain. I mean, I care about a ham. I want the Basque parliamentarians in Euskadi to be disenfranchised, but the Basque parliamentarians in Spain who belong to my group... Don't you have anything to say? That's what we were talking about. In short, and to sum up, all I intend to do on this issue is to express to you my gratitude for the support for the compromise amendment, which I have obviously not gone to where you are trying to reach agreement, neither you nor any other group, because it is Mr Maneiro who is the proposer, and I understand that it is by courtesy of Parliament that it is him who should try to reach agreement. Next time don't worry, that I don't have any problem to deal with or try to deal with you anything, but I understand that it is up to the proposing group to start the paths to reach an agreement. It doesn't seem reasonable, or at least I don't think it's very courteous of me, that I'm going to say to you, "Hey, you agree with me and we're going to leave the proposer out." In short, I believe that we have taken a step forward, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that there is a clear manifestation of this government. I reiterate the commitment of the Socialist Group to seek consensus in all kinds of parliamentary seats where we are the Basque Socialists and the Spanish Socialists in order to be able, in the end, to amend this as constitutionally, by ruling of the Constitutional Court, does not violate the principle of equality, indeed, but the fact is that the perception is that it is not necessary for certain people, simply because they hold a public office, not to be equal before the law. Which doesn't mean they're more protected exactly, eh! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Eubertarians. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u105	Good afternoon again. Thank you, ma'am. Well, I think the position of Euzko Abertzaleak, of our group, has been made clear in the first intervention. We have reiterated, and I repeat here in this second intervention, that we are in no way in agreement with the current policy of afforestation in the Spanish State, neither with the form nor with the number of people affected. This is a matter of great importance, on which all the political parties together, I believe, we have to reach an agreement, we have to work to reach that agreement in a consensual and coordinated way, but I also want to say that in the democratic countries – and Mr Semper has also commented here – there is no conception of untied strenght in the exercise of public functions, because then we would be talking about a real privilege. We share with EH Bildu, with Mr Agirrezala, concerns about some aspects of the transactional. The General Courts are urged to make a number of issues, and we do believe that in some aspects, particularly in the first drafting of the transactional, there could be interference with autonomy. And in turn, in this transaction, the Basque Government is urged to promote the relevant reforms and so on, when it is this Parliament that has to deal with any statutory reform. The mandate, the two-year mandate to promote such reforms necessary for the abolition or partial elimination of the embargoes, is also resided in this Parliament. In this sense, we would be on the wave posed by Euskal Herria Bildu in his second point, when he speaks precisely of the need to make a presentation proposing the necessary modifications to the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. We think that's a bit the way, and we think that's a bit what we should do, not put the cart before the oxen. In that case, the oxen before the cart. But I also have to tell Mr Agirrezela that I believe – I have told her before in a private way – that it is part of an apriorism that we believe is not good, because it is part of the idea that all the outbursts are to be suppressed. We are in essence in agreement with that idea, but we do not think that we should go aprioristically to a previous sentence to what the paper had to say. Mrs Gallastegui, I believe that you are in a small contradiction, because you are also speaking a priori of eliminating the outbursts, and then you say that the political work of the free public representatives must be guaranteed. I think he puts the cart a little before the oxen in this case, again. That is to say, I think we are going to leave it to the paper or to the working group to do so, so that in some way it will judge what is the right way, without going to aggravation, as I said before to the representative of Euskal Herria Bildu. And we reiterate our position again. As I told Mr Maneiro earlier, we believe that there is a debate pending, but a serious debate, and that the changes that will be proposed must be preceded by a study compared to the models of the environment. And both at the state and at the autonomous level we believe that this is the serious way to address a debate of these characteristics. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u106	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u107	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Maneiro began his speech by abroncating the rest of Parliamentarians, which is nothing new, but it's not out of the question, when you said, "Well, if you don't like it, you can vote no." Firstly, I have to thank you, Mr Maneiro, for allowing us to vote freely, or at least to say that we can vote whatever we want. Secondly, Mr Maneiro – I say this to you with all the parliamentary respect and personal appreciation that I have for you, that this is politically irrelevant, but I say this because it is so – you sometimes make titanic efforts not to make agreements. Sometimes you try so hard to make us disagree with you. You've come out to this rostrum to bow to others because before we vote I don't know what and now we vote I don't know how many, because we've changed, because we don't say the same thing anymore, because... Listen, look, I understand that this may surprise someone who understands the world and politics in motionless whites and blacks, and that when he positions himself on a white those who are grey or who can even defend black, or vice versa, they seem to him little less than heretics of politics. But this is the reality of life, you know, Mr. Maneiro? Things change, reflections happen, politics evolves, and we have the freedom to go slower than you. Perhaps you have a capacity, you are a visionary of politics that is unjustly recognized in this House and by Basque society, and the others are not so lucky. But irony aside, what is true is that there have been changes. There have been changes, there have been reflections that are maturing, and there have been changes. I was telling you before that in 2015 – which you did not want to listen to me, but I repeat – a law passed in General Courts at the request of the People's Party Government, which is – not to be mistaken, I say – the Law on the economic-financial activity of the Political Parties, adopted in the past legislature with a People's Party government, contemplates the suppression of the suffocation. This is already approved in the Congress of Deputies. And it is that the Senate has adopted an amendment, or a motion of the People's Party, in which it calls for the constitution of a paper to study the elimination of suffocation. This has happened too. And you here – I insist, despite this, we will support the compromise amendment – continue to insist and urge General Courts to address what reform. Well, it's already been approved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u108	Please, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u109	It is because in the Community of Madrid, where the People's Party governs, there is also a reform, already adopted in the Assembly of the Community of Madrid, in this regard, in order to eliminate, among other things, the figure of afforestation. By the way, also to reduce and limit the mandate of the rulers. Because there is a reality that neither you, with special singularity Mr Maneiro, but neither do you think you have identified or recognized, and it is that without the need to reform the Constitution we could reduce the outbursts in Spain from the current 10,000, or around 10,000, to just over 600, which are the ones that strictly contemplate the Spanish Constitution as outbursts. This I believe brings something to the calm debate and to the objective debate, which may not be of interest at the moment. I'll take care of it. In conclusion, I insist, I am very sorry that none of you have said with absolute force that stumbling is not a privilege. It is a procedural issue, exclusively of procedural content, because no one is free from the action of justice because of the fact that he or she is hanged. It is not true, and it is a mistake that also has negative consequences for the exercise of politics, to say that strangulation is a privilege. It is a strictly procedural issue. Because the question that must also be asked then, who says it is a privilege, would be: is it not entrusted to the professionalism or independence, for example, of the collegiate bodies, in this case of a Supreme Court or of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which would be the ones who would have to judge in their case Members and Senators or Members of this House? We do trust in the professionalism and independence of these judges, to whom, in any case, or ultimately, we are subject on the assumption of being denounced and on the assumption that this Parliament or Congress or Senate would grant the supplication. And, finally, I am very surprised that the most nationalists are always in charge of talking about Madrid, the Constitution and Spain, and not in charge of talking about what we can do in this House, which is a lot. Look, Mr. Latxaga, you were referring to the self-government presentation. Well-bred. Do you know how many times it has been talked about in the self-government presentation of reforms of these characteristics? Zero. Do you know what you've starred..., do you know what you've starred at the nationalist's request (Mr. Maneiro, yes, that you've been the pioneer in everything)..., do you know what has been the fundamental matter driven by the nationalists? The new manido status. Do you know that in this House we could have undertaken without any problem, if there had been a will, a reform of the Statute of Autonomy in order to put an end to the form of stifling? We can do it now! But it doesn't matter, the debates that interest the nationalists are others, those that happen in Madrid, those that happen in the Congress of Deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u110	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u111	That seems very good to me, I will not be the one to complain, as you will understand, but I believe that, as a representative of the Basques and with legislative capacity, which has been granted to us by the Basques and for what we are here, we can undertake reforms without expecting anything or anyone, or doing studies of comparative law or anything. And if Parliamentarians in this House believe that the figure of afforestation is an obsolete figure or, in any case, that it must disappear, we have the legislative tools to reform the Statute of Self-Government and to do so. What happens is that the priorities, I fear, in any case, and fundamentally for you, as regards reform of the Statute, are others. But this is definitely what we're talking about in the next legislature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u112	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mistto-UPyD and Euscal Sozialist corrections that have been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u113	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Modélo Barrio Barroja, a member of the Pional Society, was introduced in the prosecution of the "Couson case." Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u114	Thank you, President. Counsellors, advisors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good afternoon. As a result of the question put by this Member to the Commissioner for Economic Development and Competitiveness, Mrs Tapia, we tabled this motion on the participation of the Basque Government in the open processes on Hiriko, and in the recovery of subsidies and aid granted. And, since we do not see the Government convinced to remarry on this issue, it is logical that we should do an impulse work. With this motion we want to help the Basque Government in view of the panorama presented in criminal, commercial proceedings, the very actions of the Court of Public Accounts in relation to the reinstatement of the public aid granted by the various administrations (remember: Central Government, Basque Government, Foral de Álava) to the associations that promoted Hiriko's failed business project. And we want to help you to back up the work of recovering the total amount of public aid granted to that failed bet. The Hiriko case, a growing case. There are the first judicial proceedings, prosecutors, the first information through the media, the Basque Parliament with its commission of inquiry, then written, proceedings before the court of the Prosecutor's Office, commercial and criminal courts, courts of accounts, whistleblower creditors (without further afield, the Tecnalia Foundation itself), requests for return by the legal services of different institutions (and let's remember, the Law of the State in relation to the central government and the subsidies granted by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation at the time; the Foral Diputación de Álava, yesterday the deputy general also mentioned that its legal services are in relation to this issue, working to request the appropriate returns), requests such as the designation of fraudulent bankruptcy, other fiscal requests in relation to personal responsibilities, the designation of fraudulent bankruptcy as a central element at present and requests for reinstatement as a required economicissue , developed by the Court ofAuditors , and there are theirproceedings. To make some recent history, let us recall the conclusions of the committee of inquiry held in this same legislature in this House: The Hiriko project has been financed almost entirely by public aid from the central government and the Basque government, as well as by a smaller amount from the Álava Provincial Council. There has been an important disbursement of public aid for research and technological development that runs the risk of being lost permanently, or in the hands of private companies that can be found with patents or technological development formulas without having invested only in their realization, acquisition and use. The economic relations between the associations (Afypaida, Denokinn, etc.), the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), the North Circle and the consortia and subcontracted companies involve a complicated swarm of operations that are especially based on public funds, and it is necessary, of course – and this was noted – to analyse, value and qualify. And that's all been happening ever since. The Basque Government suffered from a lack of strategic vision, as it did not appreciate the risks in relation to the need for approval of the Hiriko project. The responsibilities for which it would be necessary, for the sake of rigour and specialized information, to have official reports on the monitoring of certain aids and public subsidies received by the Hiriko project are discussed. That has been happening precisely since we voted and since we approved that report in the committee of inquiry. It was said that the management of SPRI, which managed the Otorga and Ekintzaile programmes, had an invigilating responsibility in relation to the project, as you all know. In any case, the recommendations were passed, and the proceedings were to urge the Court of Auditors of the State to make a report on the monitoring of the various aids, subsidies, guarantees, loans... We were talking at that time about Epsilon and Hiriko, and about economic support for the Hiriko project, the Afypaida and Denokinn associations, as well as the other companies related to the aforementioned project, which he had received from all the public administrations. And that has happened, and not only has the monitoring report occurred, but there have been procedures for reinstatement, as you all know. He's gone a lot further. Let us understand that the virtuality of those recommendations has shown that work has been done, and that we can also work on those foundations, and that the Government, like other institutions, must also do so. Also in those recommendations the Basque Court of Auditors was urged, work that it has already done; the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to clarify and regulate, in the interests of efficiency, transparency and legal certainty, the use and control of public funds that are destined for non-profit associations... Well, there it is, some steps have been taken. But the end was "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to formalise the request for the repayment of aid and subsidies granted to Afypaida". And that's what we're talking about again today, too. On the other hand, according to the latest information, the Court of Auditors has opened eight procedures for the reimbursement of aid granted by the three administrations, by three different administrations (we say again, the Basque Government, the Central Government and the Foral Diputación de Álava). It is a matter of those responsible for these alleged irregular subsidies taking charge of the economic damage caused (almost nothing!), in relation to what may become if the procedures follow. For this reason, the Government must act, we believe that the Basque Government must act in relation to this return, with that return of the amounts contributed. Also – the other day in the inquiry referred, but I would also like to rely on that – as the Court of Auditors' report of January 2016 on support from the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country meant – definitive questions were raised in relation to the grants granted: The subsidies granted by the Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community and its dependent trading companies between 2010 and 2012..., well, by Afypaida the quantities were specified, and it was said that in the calls 2010, 2011 and 2012 of the Etorgai Autonomous Programme the evaluation of the proposal presented by the consortium and by the managing bodies offers certain conclusions that significantly question the granting of the aid, and the maximum subsidy percentage provided for by the articles of the regulatory rules is exceeded. The shortcomings identified (before that report from the Court of Auditors) should be extended to the subsidies received by Epsilon Euskadi to the Hiriko project. And it was said that additional documentation and information was required, as was possible for that order. In addition, the staff costs – an important issue that we had the opportunity to see in the committee of inquiry – were based on statements by the beneficiaries themselves, without their reality being properly credited, without the performance of the managing body in this regard. It also states in the Court of Auditors' considerations that in Etorgai 2016 seven of the ten members left the same programme. They were developed by balanced business consortia. This is compounded by the absence of a request for documentation on the economic solvency of the participating entities to implement the projects. There was no procedure, in relation to companies (detailed companies participating in the project)... , no guarantees were drawn up. Expenditures do not appear properly justified, and a good number of them are mentioned... At the 2011 call for Etorgai aid, Afypaida did not constitute the guarantees collected. These subsidies were not adequately justified. It has not been documented that one of the most important companies was aware of their tax obligations, in the absence of accreditation of compliance with their obligations to Social Security... That is to say, we are talking about a cluster of irregularities one after another, a cluster of irregularities in crescendo, which of course also shows the Court of Auditors and makes it act. To him, and to other legal bodies primarily. In the 2012 call for Etorgai aid, neither Afypaida nor Basque Robot Wheels SL (one of the companies most mentioned in relation to this project) constituted the guarantees set out in Article 3.2 of the corresponding decree. Furthermore, there is no justification for the overall implementation of the project. That is to say, Afypaida and the company received thousands of euros, each of them for grants accompanying the Ekintzaile programme, without the documentation in the files being deduced that the Hiriko project met the conditions necessary to obtain these aids. On the other hand, the files did not include all the justified documentation mentioned, and additionally travel expenses – which has been a constant – for thousands of euros, were not accompanied by the essential explanation to prove their relationship to the project. In addition, expenditure per thousand euros, carried out within the period granted by the executive committee of the programme, would have been carried out outside the planned support period. That is, an endless number of irregularities in relation to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, something needs to be done. Something needs to be done. I've filed a motion. I announce that I will vote in favour of the motion, my motion. (Barreak) That's good for you, isn't it? Do you think that's right? Good. Well, well, I've convinced myself and I'm going to vote for it. (Barreak) The motion, simple – then there are some of the amendments of the whole that also, if my motion is not approved, I will vote in favour; that is why the initial paragraph – says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to demand, in the open cases on the so-called Hiriko case in the courts of justice" – and participating, which in some already participate as a private accusation – "the return of the full amount of subsidies and aid granted to companies and associations promoting the failed project". Nothing more, nothing less. That's my motion, and I ask you to... Well, I understand very interestingly the considerations made in your motions by the three parliamentary groups that have made amendments to the whole (I say again, if my motion is rejected, I will support it). I understand that a majority must be sought, and it is necessary for the Basque Government not to stand on this issue, to resort to everything available, to its legal services, to do what other administrations have done. I would like once again to remind you that the Government of Spain (here are the writings of the state attorney) and the Foral Diputación de Álava (even yesterday the deputy general), in relation to these issues and the outstanding debts, are going to take action. The Court of Auditors, with its eight applications for reimbursement of grants, is there. Or the State Advocate with her writings on some other issue that has to do with the guilty qualification of the contest, another of the issues that are on the table... What does the Basque Government have to do? We understand that you have to do what our motion indicates, and what the rest of the amendments in their entirety also indicate. In any case, I ask you to approve the motion that will be voted on first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u115	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u116	Good morning. The Hiriko case returns again to this plenary hall. It is already a classic of the legislature, along with other more or less related episodes that we all have in mind. And the truth is that at this point the final peripecies of this senseless pseudo-entrepreneurial project, of manufacturing an urban, revolutionary electric car, made in Euskadi, should not occupy even a minute of the attention of this House, because this Parliament has already done its work with the commission of inquiry, which established the political responsibilities and also the procedural and control failures in which the Basque Administration involved in the Hiriko and Epsilon cases. And now is the time for the courts to lay down the criminal responsibilities and also the assets that may be the responsibility of the people who started and managed that landline. Because Hiriko is not a failed business project, as Mrs Tapia usually describes lovingly. There is nothing more to see than the qualifications of the Office of the Prosecutor in the cases that follow in the courts, which are much less mild in their expressions, both in a commercial court, for guilty bankruptcy, and especially in the open criminal case: misappropriation, documentary falsehood and misappropriation. These are the charges that the prosecutor assigns to six former Hiriko officials for the alleged diversion of up to 6.4 million of the 18 public aid that they merged. Because the originality of this "business project", in quotes, and of his cousin, Epsilon, is that its beneficiary promoters did not, surprisingly, incur property risk, nor did they contribute capital, but that all this was on behalf of the public administrations. This is known, and as I have pointed out earlier, we should not be concerned, but the problem is that if the PNV Government had acted more actively and diligently in protecting the public interests involved in these episodes, perhaps things would have changed. But, unfortunately, we have to say that it has not been so. Let's remember briefly. The Nationalist Group did not support the establishment of the parliamentary commission of inquiry into the Hiriko and Epsilon cases, and it was also the only group that opposed the conclusions and recommendations adopted. It is not well known whether because both projects had the blessings of the PNV, for the notorious political connections between their main promoters with this party, or for both together. The case is that if the Basque Government is personified, as it is now, as a particular accusation in the Hiriko case, it has been because from this House we urged it to do so, 14 months ago. And we urged him because we saw neither desire nor willingness in that regard. We know, moreover, that the aid granted by the Basque Government to Hiriko is a minimum part of the public subsidies buried in this project: EUR 2.2 million, compared to around 16 achieved by the central government; EUR 2.2 million, which is for the most part true, was spent on technological and industrial developments for which they were granted. Because there is a difference between one and the other arrival of money: unlike the subsidies politically extracted by the PNV from the General State Budgets for the promoters of Hiriko, the Basque Government's aid was given in a competitive way in the specific R+D+i programmes of the Department of Industry. And although we know the socialists: it was the government of Patxi López that put up with not a few criticisms, by the way, from the media linked to the PNV, for not giving enthusiastically to this revolutionary effort. Fortunately he did not, and the reason is that he did not see a solid and industrial business base on the initiative of some gentlemen who, by the way, did not have previous experience in engineering or automotive, and who also did not put a euro in their portfolio. Probably because of this prudence and rigour of the previous Government, and because it did not let itself be involved in a dream, as it did with Epsilon, the property damage that the Basque administration has been able to suffer has been much smaller than it could have been. But that does not mean that the Basque Government has to profile itself in the face of this fiasco. It is their duty to be actively involved in judicial proceedings, as an injured party as well, and it is also their irrefutable duty to try to recover the maximum amount of own public funds that were misused. That seems so elementary and so common sense that we should not lose a second in proclaiming it here, but it seems that we must do it again, because we do not see exactly a situation or a very proactive action on the part of this Government. At this point, as happened last week with the debate on the lukewarmness of exercising the particular charge in the case of De Miguel, we have a certain suspicion that this attitude has much to do with the political affiliation of most of the defendants and with the political support also received by this revolutionary Basque electric car. A business that, by the way, could not see any other great automotive company. That is why my group is going to support a new appeal – which is practically a literal copy of what was approved here 14 months ago – to the Government to fulfil its obligation, to be an active party in open court proceedings, and to make a real effort to recover public funds that are legally proven to have been misused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u117	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u118	Good noon, everyone. Welcome, Josu. Welcome, buddy. Today, again, on the city table. We have discussed several times about the fraud the city had brought about, about the hole in the Administration. But to-day we place discussion in another branch: We'll talk about what you're gonna do in front of all that bullshit. Over the past few weeks we have been learning how the "non-profit" association (in quotes) Denokinn also used its political influences. Let us remember that it was created by people who today hold high positions of political representation in the PNV in the institutions. Thanks to their influence they accessed large amounts of public money that were not justified, and, in Mr. Macías' textual words in his judicial statement, "because they did not have to justify anything." Let us remember that Mr Macías is ex-conciliator of Trapaga by the Basque Nationalist Party and maximum responsible for Denokinn, among other functions much less clear. That is the modus operandi of this plot of corruption that is called to be, together with De Miguel, a plot that ends up dragging people who were and are important in the PNV governments, just as some of us have told them a long time ago. And it's just that time will end up giving us reason. He's planning to make a deal with the initiatives that are being introduced. It seems she wants to give EAJ a warning because the subject is being handled wrongly. The other day in a media interview I was asked if I considered that the Government is responding well to cases of alleged corruption that have appeared. My answer was: "In my opinion, the Government is not responding well or badly, but it has done nothing but defend itself and its own. By theirs I mean all those people of the PNV who are seeing themselves splashed by the different plots." We saw it a long time ago with the hugs and applause upon his departure from Parliament to Alfredo De Miguel, and we see it today when people who participated in Hiriko's plot, whether from the side of the extractors of public money or from the public figures who allowed them to commit their misdeeds, were rewarded with positions of political designation in this government. Hiriko's former treasurer is already out; someone else is still inside. So it's clear that the party's making a passionate defense of his people, but I think it's a matter of time. Someday the judges will find a way into this subject, and what happened in Catalonia or State will be here too. I think this is a matter of time. Someday, surely sooner than later, the judges or prosecutors will find ways to get in, and that day will begin to happen the same thing that already happened in Catalonia with CiU, or in the Spanish state with the People's Party and its corruption machinery. From Euskal Herria Bildu we continue to believe that corruption, amigoism, rotating doors, etc., are not isolated actions of certain people, but that it is the way in which a system is strengthened in which large companies, banks and all those with interests in the dismantling of the welfare state and in the systematic theft of public money commit their trophies, through contracts or preferential relations with certain political parties. This is not a mistake or a problem in a failed project, much less. What we are talking about today is a plot of interests related to the Basque Nationalist Party. Today we don't talk about why the Hiriko fiasco happened, because we're all clear about that here. Today we talk about the irresponsible attitude continued over time, of a government that defends those who took the money and ran. And the reason is simple: they are people of the Basque Nationalist Party, who did what they surely understood to be normal. From this consideration comes our full correction. If you haven't had the chance to read it, I'll give you the invitation to read it. In this discussion which has been repeated several times, we have made a new contribution with the third and fourth point. I'll read them next. Thirdly, "Parliament urges the Government to make a firm and clear commitment to the alleged crimes of corruption, applying the ethical code rigorously and speedily, contrary to how it has acted so far." Fourth point: "Parliament urges the Government to eliminate the possibility of formalizing contractual relations with the Public Administration for any person or enterprise that has been prosecuted for any corruption-related offences, as long as the judicial case lasts. It also urges the State party to abolish definitively the possibility of formalizing contractual relations with the Basque public administration for individuals and companies who have been tried and convicted, because in the fight against corruption both corrupt and corrupt must be prosecuted." With regard to the point on the code of ethics, I believe that everyone here assumes that the Government's action in implementation is anything but ethical. The lewdness is total. The times that have been applied have been because Parliament has demanded it, and also knowing that they were not going to do anything at all. Today they still have two issues on the table that should be dealt with by this ethical committee, but absolutely nothing happens here. That the courts of account say it's irregular? It's okay. That there's a guilty bankruptcy? It's absolutely nothing. That the promoters of the Hiriko project are being investigated for serious crimes? It's absolutely nothing. The second of the points that I have read to you, and which I personally find an interesting point, is that those persons or companies that have been involved in alleged cases of corruption will be quarantined during the trial period, and if they are finally convicted they will not be able to re-enter public service contracts. We cannot hide our eyes and assume, as if it were an act, that those who from their posts in the public administration end up acting corruptly, favoring the interests of third parties, is simply because they have had a revelation of the god money, which imposed on them to grant contracts or agreements to certain companies in exchange for nothing. In this model of amiguetes capitalism, in which some want to privatize everything to give it to their friends, or grant all public contracts always to the same companies (in that they then call free competition and free competition, but always with them, and always to the detriment of the working conditions of workers and citizens), I repeat, in this world of amiguetes capitalism and influence trafficking, so much guilt has those who corrupt themselves as those who corrupt. Today is the day when it's rare for companies to be caught up in corruption schemes. In fact, they are for minor offenses, so continue to corrupt them absolutely to pay off. I suggest you don't want to be like that. Maybe they can put legal arguments or other kind of argument. But if we don't limit the corrupt, we'll hardly get rid of corruption. If we don't limit the corrupters, it's hard to put an end to corruption. If we do not limit those who allow overcosts in the works of the TAV above reasonable, using that permissive 10%, we will not end the payments of the builders to the political parties; overcosts that in the Spanish case ended in envelopes, and so have been judged and condemned some of the companies by the AVE in Spain, companies that are today working on the TAV. If we do not end up presenting projects without having to explain the invoices that would justify the grant, cases such as Hiriko's will be repeated. If we don't get rid of the corrupters, those who believe that the institutions are theirs will be corrupted. Let's put solutions, not good words, to cancer that rots public management. Let us put solutions to the serious problem of corruption that we also suffer here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u119	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u120	Yes, thank you, President. The Group of the European People's Party proposes to Parliament that we urge the Basque Government to demand, in the open cases concerning the so-called Hiriko case in the courts of justice, and taking part as a special accusation, the return of the full amount of subsidies and aid granted to the companies and associations promoting the failed project. Beyond the fact that we have tabled an amendment of the whole which we believe is similar to the original, although perhaps somewhat more complete, we will also vote in favour of the motion of the People's Group. And we hope that, somehow or otherwise, some of the amendments put forward by the different groups will not go forward, it will not be because there is no compromise amendment at last. It would therefore be interesting if what is included in the original initiative or what other groups can put forward finally came out with the votes perhaps against (only votes) of the Basque Nationalist group, which seems to resist doing everything that should be done to clarify this issue and recover the public money that we have supposedly lost. The Álava Prosecutor's Office has asked the Commercial Court for the declaration of fraudulent bankruptcy of the company Afypaida, promoter of the Hiriko electric car, and requests for its main promoters ten years of disqualification, and the participating companies that return 15.7 million euros received as subsidies from different public institutions. The same is also true of the position of the State lawyer, who is trying to recover the important subsidies granted by the Government of Spain to Afypaida, at the request and at the request of the Basque Nationalist Party. The competition administration also requests the declaration of fraudulent bankruptcy. The Basque Government has certainly not wanted to act, and has continued to maintain that it was nothing more than a corporate failure. Both the committee of inquiry that has been conducted in this Parliament and now the investigation carried out in court make clear the huge fiasco of the Hiriko project. A fiasco similar to that of Epsilon, the other great automotive dream of the Basque Nationalist Party, which only served to enrich certain friends or comrades of the Basque Nationalist Party. Both projects have cost the public coffers more than €60 million. The prosecutor's assessments are round. There is talk of a lack of rigour in the business model, a careless performance at the head of society, a company whose sole purpose was the enrichment of managers, and all this caused the evaporation of public funds. We can remember that the main payer of such aid was the State, the Government of Spain, but that it was at the request of the Basque Nationalist Party in those absolutely shameful budgetary negotiations with Mr Zapatero's Socialist Party. And also that the Basque institutions granted two million euros, and that in the opinion of the Basque Court of Auditors they gave themselves without guarantees. I believe that these are very important reasons so that we can support the motion put forward by Mr Barrio. Faced with corruption, friendliness, corruption or mismanagement, I believe that all of us must be clear and strong. Also the Basque Government and also the party that supports this Basque Government. Also the Basque Nationalist Party. We can remember that the Basque Nationalist Party voted against the creation of the commission of inquiry, that the Basque Nationalist Party voted against the conclusions of that commission of inquiry, remaining in absolute solitude. We can also remember that the Basque Government never wanted to move a finger, and only moved it when it was urged by this Parliament. We can remember that the Basque Government was only personified in the case when this Parliament urged it to do so. And we can remember that this government still does not recover all the public money given to this absolutely failed project. It's not a failed business project; it's much worse than that. And I don't think it's a senseless project either. I believe that, apart from qualifications, it is above all a project that has cost us all the Basques millions of euros. This is the important thing: it did nothing, and it cost us millions of euros. And I believe that the essential thing of all this is that behind this project that cost us millions of euros and has not served us at all, behind this project, are distinguished friends, comrades of the Basque Nationalist Party, and hence the Basque Nationalist group and this government try not to make this matter clear and not to recover that defrauded money. I believe that this last point is what explains everything, that behind this absolutely failed project are prominent militants of the Basque Nationalist Party. Faced with this, clarity, transparency and strength are needed. That is why we will vote in favour of the motion by the Group of the European People's Party and of the amendments, which basically raise similar issues on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u121	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the teams that have no corrections, the Eunus patriots. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u122	Madam de Table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good noontides. In the July of 2014 the sub-conquest on Epsilon and City ended. There arose from it some conclusions and recommendations, which the party I represent did not approve of; for these effects were only political motives. That was our opinion and we keep thinking the same thing. The only motivation to these consequences was to harm EAJ, and to come to these conclusions a few technical reports, which were really meaningful. Many of the conclusions that these reports were sent to ruin. But I will not resume that debate, which is what some repeatedly try. I'm just going to take a brief tour of what's happened since then. As I have told you, the findings of that commission transferred a number of recommendations to the Government, and all groups, at one time or another, have asked the Government about their implementation. And the Government has repeatedly replied that it is implementing them. Point. That is where the conclusions of the committee of inquiry come in. With the exception of questions on this matter, until March 2015, when the municipal election campaign was about to begin, no one spoke about the matter again. But, of course, elections are a joyful field to try to resurrect what was already finished, at least in what Parliament might have to do with it, and UPyD, Mr Maneiro, took off with a motion to request that the Government take part in the judicial case against Hiriko. Done and done. It was discussed, such a personation was requested, that the Nationalist Group did not support but the other two points did, and unanimously from this Basque Parliament a point of motion was adopted that said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to comply with the recommendations contained in the opinion adopted on 2 October 2014 by the plenary of the House and to take all necessary measures to recover the public funds granted by that Government in respect of which a judgment determines that an unauthorized use has been made of them". Just say it and do it. All over again and again, as I said, he accepted the request from the Basque parliament. For this reason he consented to arrive at the cause on the 15th of May, and remains there. The cause's in an artificial statement and the Red Munche hasn't missed a single manifestation of the statement. Now it's PP coming back with the cause to ask you to return all the help you asked for. And the reason is that the Spanish Court of Public Accounts has made a report about the friendships given to the City. All right! But he sent this report this year's first of January. If the report had it in early January, Mr Barrio, it might seem logical that, if that, in your view, substantially modified the case, I would ask it immediately after it was analysed. But either he has read it slowly, or other things have happened between January and May, when the interpellation and this motion are presented. God forbid me to point out when is the best time for a parliamentarian to stand up for a matter before the plenary, but I am also free to comment on a delay that in principle I do not find objective motivation. And that's when I thought there were two new situations that had been created between January and May. One, of course: we are on the threshold of an election campaign, and Hiriko is always resurrected when there is an election campaign. And two, that two former mayors of Gasteiz and members of the PP had been sentenced by the Spanish Court of Public Accounts itself. If what you are trying to do with this motion is to cover up a sentence in your own right or to cut the ballot, you say so. We know what we're coming to, we know what we're discussing, and we're entering the famous "and you more" fight. But if you deny it, you will deny it, then we will have to establish another dialectic line. Although I will remain with the first reflection, it is none other than that this motion is exclusively opportunistic in nature. Indeed, the Spanish Court of Auditors makes a fairly comprehensive report of the aid granted to Hiriko by all the public administrations, and indeed detects some possible irregularities. But its detection of possible irregularities is similar to the detection of other possible irregularities by the Basque Court of Auditors, which, after analysing the aid from the Basque Government, found essentially generic irregularities in the aid of the Etorgai programme, and not specifically attributable to the Hiriko project. He did so unanimously, except for a particular vote by his chairman, but not with regard to aid or the report, but that the Basque Court of Auditors was not asked to audit Spanish aid to Hiriko. 'Eskong's been checking out the help he's given, accepted that what he's done was right, and in due course, during the last call, he asked to come back because he hadn't done it. Besides, he retains the demands of a debt which is not paid for doing wrong. That's why he's here at the creditor contest. In other words, the Basque Government has analysed the aid granted, detected errors, and has requested the return of the aid. The Basque Court of Auditors detected generic errors and made recommendations to amend certain aspects of the Etorgai aid, which are, of course, being adopted. And now the Spanish Court of Auditors detects possible irregularities, makes recommendations very similar to those of the Basque Court of Auditors, and you think that the Government is asking for everything to be returned. Why? If only a year ago you and all the groups in this House called for the return of what a judgment had indicated to have been misused of the aid, what has changed, if there has not yet been a judgment? Or do you already consider the Spanish Court of Auditors' report to be a judgment? Because the Spanish Court of Auditors' report is an opinion. You, for example, do not consider the Alonso and Maroto ruling final, as if the preliminary report were already a ruling today! You will find that, before all possible allegations, the Basque Government also argues a number of technical issues that explain all of these possible irregularities detected. Another thing is that they do not attend to them, which can be understood for strict technical reasons, which seems to be also interpretable, or, by imitating Mr Maroto's words, because the person responsible for issuing such a report is someone who is contrary to the interests of the PNV, which could also be. In any case, and putting ourselves at the worst, let us imagine that a final judgment determines that all the errors detected by the Spanish Court of Auditors are true, and a final judgment determines that they must be returned. For, listen, we are asking for the refund of these amounts, which will never – if you read the report of the Spanish Court of Auditors carefully – be all the amounts granted, because, apart from the generic provisions of the programme, you will find errors in specific amounts, in specific items, but you will not find a global disqualification of what is financed in the project. In conclusion, if a year ago we agreed that the Government would request the amounts that a judgment would determine as incorrectly managed, we would maintain ourselves in such a request, as long as nothing has changed, except a report from the Spanish Court of Auditors which is for nothing a judgment. We, who were asked to comment on accounts court reports, then we stayed with the one at home, with the Basque. Perhaps it has changed a circumstance, and that is that we are in an electoral campaign. But that, for serious political formations, should not be a reason to modify a request to the government of such caliber. The PNV, in short, only negotiated an R & D aid with the Spanish Government. He didn't give it or manage it. The PNV neither negotiated nor granted nor managed aid to Hiriko by the Basque Government. The PNV did not negotiate, grant, or manage aid that was given to Hiriko by the People's Party in the Arab Foreign Ministry, which, by the way, also criticizes the Spanish Court of Auditors. And is the PNV solely responsible for a research project failing? Perhaps the tone will rise as the election campaign approaches, and will the PNV be responsible for all the research projects that fail in Euskadi? And I'm already going to give you a clue for the day of reflection of the election campaign: Is the PNV, which makes all research projects in this country fail, the one responsible for not having a Nobel Prize, I don't know, for physics or chemistry, for example? I can go for more. That's right, everyone who can, and if he's from the People's Party better, he gets out... Just look at Mr. Maroto, the images of Maroto, of Alonso, De Andrés, Basagoiti or Soria: all of them take the wonderful photos with those projects that do not fund or manage the PNV, but that the PNV takes care to make them fail. In conclusion, the whole House agreed a year ago with the request for repayment of aid on which a judgment was imposed; it has been a year, and there has been no judgment. Then we continue to think the same thing, because nothing has changed for a year, except that there are elections, a circumstance that you, Mr. Barrio, have used to try to escape us, turning the report of a court into a sentence. But I warn you: walk carefully and do not go to china, that, as Eleonora Dose said, the greatest danger of cheating on others is that one inevitably ends up cheating on himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u123	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u124	Thank you, President. Mr Telleria, at the beginning of his speech he referred to the commission of inquiry, and he said..., with that victimism that we already know about in relation to these issues, because every time we talk about the Hiriko case, the Epsilon case, the De Miguel case or other cases, the attitude of the Basque Nationalist Party is that of the contubernium, the judeomasonic contubernium that surrounds Sabin Etxea, the Basque Nationalist Party. Look, Mr Telleria, the conclusions of the Epsilon and Hiriko commission of inquiry were not approved to harm the Basque Nationalist Party. The Basque Nationalist Party was usually damaged by supporting projects, impossible business proposals, without justification, without private money, without solvency, without viability plans, with nothing at all, Mr Telleria, and you know it, and you checked it in the committee of inquiry. What about the workers' representatives, what they told us here about the Hiriko project? What do you say to some of the leaders of associations involved in the Hiriko project, who were unable to justify anything of what was being done in that project? That is, that is the fundamental element. Don't try to divert attention. Don't try to divert attention. I believe that the one who tries to confuse on this subject is you, with other matters that have their relevance and are there, but I am not going to get into the provocation. You talk about the times, that we are now in pre-campaign and that the Hiriko project is coming out. But, Mr. Telleria, and Mr. Ramiro González, why did you announce yesterday that the Álava Foral Chamber will open the files on the recovery of the money granted in connection with this issue? I mean, I am a Member of Parliament and the other day I asked the Counsellor and she gave me an answer, and the result of the answer and the question, in relation to something that I did not find satisfactory, because I have tabled a motion that is there. But, well, on the ordinary parliamentary agenda! Indeed, at the end of January the Court of Auditors' report came out; it has been analysed, but since then many more things have happened, Mr Telleria, who also has to remember: the analysis of the Court of Auditors itself; the Court of Auditors itself has continued to act in the cases of reinstatement... You will know: there have been writings in relation to the state attorney, with the ministry, in relation to the characterization, with the qualification of the guilty bankruptcy... There have been writings before the Commercial Court of the Prosecutor himself (of the Prosecutors themselves, Mr Telleria), of the Prosecutor himself, in relation to this same question, in relation to responsibilities, in relation to the refund of amounts by promoters and associations. Do not tell me that what has happened so far is irrelevant, as if we were asking, in our normal function of government control, that the government should recover all the aid granted! Because I have already read you the Court of Auditors' report on the Etorgai 2010, 2011 and 2012 programmes, which you also know. It's just that everyone was wrong! Well, if everyone was wrong and everyone had flaws, and there were expenses unwarranted, there were no guarantees, there was no solvency, there was no hard private money, Mr. Telleria... And they failed, and the PNV failed. But recognize it. They were wrong about those projects, but be humble and acknowledge that that was the case. And we do our job, and we demand that the Government request a return. The Government of Spain has already done so, the Álava Foral Diputation yesterday said it was going to do so. Then let the Basque Government proceed. With regard to the amendments, Mr Pastor, I would like to say that your amendment for me is somewhat inadequate. If mine doesn't come out, I'm going to vote for it, but I think it's insufficient. The Foral Diputación de Álava and the Central Government have already taken action, and there is no court ruling. Because the administrations, when there are programs that fail in relation to the money they give, do not need a court ruling to start asking for the money to be returned. They are administrative procedures, and so on – you know, you know them – that make them all the administrations: the municipal, the foral, the autonomous, the state... There is no need for a court decision to act. And we understand that, having regard to the Court of Auditors' reports, having regard to the objective reports on the failed project, on the failed project, on the disappearance of public money on salaries, on travel, on subsistence allowances, on alleged hiring of engineers that nobody knows, we ask for the return, we ask the Government to demand the full return of that issue. And, logically, I think we make it much clearer than your amendment, which is a little behind. If you do not approve of ours, that I ask you to make a reflection and to approve it, because I think it is a bit the transaction of all of those who have presented themselves... In short, the motion that we have tabled I believe is the fundamental thing, and if the Foral de Álava and the central government have entered, they are going to ask for the return...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u125	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u126	Why not the Basque Government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u127	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The Socialist Basque must not speak a word... Meet EH, Mr. Łódź de Munin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u128	Bai, go where I was. Well, I'm almost out on a preventive basis, because, knowing Mr. Telleria, you'll probably end up handing out. You said that, of course, the Hiriko theme always appears during the election period, and that the rest of us take advantage of it or try to take advantage of it. I believe that the elections – according to you, for us, are an opportunity – for the Basque Nationalist Party it is clear that they are a business, and above all the results of the general elections. That's where the business comes in. When you tell us that there is no way to defend, or that we cannot defend that it is just a failed project, I am reminded of at least two other failed projects that were negotiated by your parliamentary group in Madrid and which are also failed projects. One was from Bakio, and another was from Pasaia. They don't give one! It is that the problem begins to be when the way in which politics is made is that we talk about that "Basque agenda". The famous Basque agenda ends up finding contracts for people who are close to the Basque Nationalist Party, and that is the question. The problem I think, seeing it with a little perspective, is not in Hiriko, not even in Epsilon. The problem of all this lies with the non-profit association Denokinn, as will be shown, that it is an association, that in the beginning it was public, that it is born from the union of several municipalities (I will not even quote the names of the mayors who created it, nor will I quote them), but that in the turn it ended up being what we have been denouncing a few, which is a company of obtainers. I mean, where there's a town hall of the Basque Nationalist Party, I could play the hand that these gentlemen went to with a project. I could play my hand. And, more than that, almost with certainty that the City Council of Gasteiz also has or had at the time some contract with Denokinn, and all under an umbrella of supposed innovation, development, etc. Denokinn was born for a very specific region of Bizkaia. Suddenly they said, "Here's business. We're even going to make the Alavese fund a project in Bizkaia." And they got it. And, more than that, not only did they get it that way, but what they got was that it was financed in a way that they didn't have to justify anything at all. And that's your model, that's how you get things. And in the meantime, what happened? Those people who allowed them to get that money in their hands are still in positions of responsibility, some of them. And others now do know that they have been accused, but we do know that thanks to the media, because here nobody says anything or moves anyone within the Basque Nationalist Party. And there's the crux of the matter. The problem is not so much the Hiriko, but what people were behind the winning company, the winning association that is Denokinn. And here you can see who they are, and they are high officials of the Basque Nationalist Party, people of pipes, people who will have to show what their role is, because neither at the business level nor at the level of any kind contribute absolutely nothing. They have dedicated themselves to plundering the public arks. Through their influence, they have dedicated themselves to entering all administrations and taking the warm money.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u129	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Maniro, Mistto-UPyD...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u130	Yes, thank you, President. This is curious about the electoral reasons that are often invoked to criticize some initiative of different groups, when those initiatives do not like or hurt us. In the case of the abolition of the elections, a point that we have discussed earlier, some group has accused me of the same thing ("We are in pre-electoral campaign"), with which I understand that this Basque Parliament not only during the general election campaign, but even months before, has to paralyse its activity, because absolutely nothing can be proposed. If that were the case, this Parliament would have been standing still since 21 December, which is the time during which the main political parties are running an electoral campaign. No, no, I believe that the Basque Parliament has to continue, it has to keep pace. And, on the other hand, when someone says that you are proposing this initiative because you are in the electoral campaign, it is understood that this initiative benefits one another and harms another, and then at this point the Basque Nationalist Party should explain why this particular initiative harms you. That is, if you have strong arguments to explain your vote against Mr Barrio's initiative, and also considering that you are very skillful dialectically, you should have no fear at all! Instead, you should take advantage of this opportunity to campaign for elections, vote against Mr Barrio's initiative, all the other amendments, and be able to explain to the public that this is an immense fallacy of the entire opposition represented by various groups. No, the Basque Parliament must continue its work also in the pre-election campaign. And this is one thing that we have defended several groups in recent times, even when there was no election campaign. And this is a political position which has also been defended by the Group of the European People's Party. Therefore, it seems to me consistent to maintain it. I don't know if Mr. Barrio is presenting it for election reasons. Obviously the People's Party, like everyone else, is interested in winning as many votes as possible, but in any case I think it is a legitimate thing. And you will have to explain why you are voting against this initiative. I do not know whether it is for electoral reasons or whether it is because of the situation in which Mr Maroto or Mr Alonso find themselves. I don't know. What I do know is that UPyD is going to defend the same as it has in recent times, because, Mr Tellería, apart from the fact that you should recognize that in recent times we have known some things and there have been some developments (such as the analysis of the Court of Auditors, the state's legal proceedings, the statements of the prosecutor, etc.), we, in that motion you mentioned in April 2015, initially raised what we were proposing, which was the request to the Government for the recovery of aid, even if there was a court ruling, taking into account all that we already knew at that point. That's what our motion said. Certainly, as I am weak, I gave in to other groups, and in particular to the Socialist Group, to incorporate and finally sign that transactional which you have read, and which refers to the need for a judgment to determine that an unauthorized use has been made of public money, which is something that in a coherent way, certainly the Socialist Group takes up in its whole amendment. But our initial position was that, to ask for the return of aid, knowing what we knew then, and more rightly with what we know now. That is why we are going to support the motion of the People's Group, and if it does not come out, that is why we are going to vote in favour of our amendment. Is the Basque Nationalist Party the only one responsible? Not at all. Those who let the Basque Nationalist Party do it are also responsible. Those who have usually left the Basque Nationalist Party in this community are also responsible. The Socialist Government of Zapatero, which was blackmailed or wanted to be blackmailed by the absurd pressures of the Basque Nationalist Party, is also responsible. There are several who are responsible. But in this particular case we are calling for aid to be repaid, and it is up to the Basque Government to do so. But he's not the only one responsible, though he is. Finally, I think it is also clear that the Basque Nationalist group throughout this time has been the least forceful party on this issue, and I think that they should act justly to the contrary. That is, since you are militants of your own political party who are under suspicion, the reasonable thing would be for you to dispel any doubt with your vote, or at least to conceal it better. Since your militants are suspected of carrying out improper actions, you should be the first to ask the Government to carry out all the necessary actions to clarify these facts and also to recover the aid. But it is possible that what has happened so many times on other occasions will happen again: that the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group will finally join in the vote on the amendment put forward by the Socialist Group. This may finally happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u131	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. And finally, the Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u132	Thanks again. Look, Mr. Maneiro, you are committed today to asking everyone to vote not for everything, in order to differentiate you. He's going to talk to me about election reasons! If you are the champion of electoral reasons, presenting amendments, motions, GNP... - No, no, no, He's the champion! I get it, hey! You have to look for a hole in a very large jungle and you are a small grass. And it gets smaller and smaller, but good. Look, the commission of inquiry doesn't hurt the PNV. He intended to harm the PNV. That's why we objected. That's what I wanted, but good. And what we're trying to do today... Precisely at the previous point you asked people for consistency, and you said, "Don't vote now, because a year ago they voted no! Keep voting no." Well, look, I am consistent and I ask you: vote the same thing that you voted for a year ago, which is what I am going to do, vote exactly the same thing that I voted for a year ago. Exactly the same, because nothing has changed. It has not changed anything, because the Spanish Court of Auditors, I insist, makes a report, and the Spanish Court of Auditors has now requested..., started a procedure to request the reversal of aid. But all of them? No! No! From where he finds judgments, from where he finds judgments, the court. What does the Álava Foral Diputation do? Why did Ramiro González tell you yesterday? Because Mr. De Andrés asks him, and he answers him and says, "Hey, I've asked what the Spanish court...", I think it's 12,000 euros from Robot, but not the rest of the aid that the People's Party gave Hiriko. So you're going to ask what the Spanish Court of Public Accounts says is wrong. Because in addition, the Spanish Court of Auditors... It is a report, well, but the Basque Government does not have to ask, because it does not agree with what they are asking for. He doesn't agree. Because, you see, the Spanish Court of Auditors says, in a statement of study, in-depth analysis and objectivity, it says: "During the process of evaluating the application submitted by the consortium to the Etorgai 2010 call for aid, seven of its ten members leave the same, with a 45 % share in the budget. Despite this circumstance, the evaluation body's proposal was favourable, which is not considered to be adequately substantiated." Clear! Phenomenon! An in-depth analysis of the topic to say no. Hey, a little more serious! That's what in the Basque government's reply report... is what it does, asking for a little bit of seriousness, and saying, "Hey, that's enough, we were worth it." And I'm going to tell you one thing, see if things are clear here. Did the PNV give you that help? Did the PNV give any of those aids? None! None! And the PNV, then, to what is it dedicated, to defending to the extreme that the return is not requested? Because the current Basque Government has analysed the aid and believes that within the Etorgai programme they are well given. Mr. Barrio, you're in good shape. And everyone says, "the prosecutor, the prosecutor..." I want to remind you of a sentence that the Court of Instruction said to the prosecutor's complaint, of one of the issues of the prosecutor's complaint, which was a crime of fraud against the administrations. He said: "It is untenable that the facts described in the complaint may be incardinated in a crime of fraud against the Administration of the Criminal Code. Nor does the most imaginative of legal engineering allow the interpretation of the type carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office." And I'm falling back more. When the prosecutor accuses the entire board of directors of the technology park in Epsilon, everyone here asked for heads, necks... What's left of it? Only the president, for the time being; the rest, dismissed. And no one here has come to tell us, "Hey, forgive me, I thought... the prosecutor said..." The D.A. says a lot of things, and the judges say other things. And we wait. And the Basque Government has seen all the reports and has said, "Hey, we have analysed the Etorgai aid that has been given, and we believe that they are well given, less these 150.000 euros that I keep and do not give them to them, and these 37,000 euros that are wasted and I have asked to return them to me". He did, and you know it, and they told him. Well, for now it's what they've found it to be, and that's what they've told you in writing, verbally, drinking beers and here in the chair. So, just one thing. We did not want there to be a committee of inquiry for what I told you, because there was a political claim. And the political claim was demonstrated when you, in making the recommendations and the conclusions, overshadowed the report of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Just having missed it, just not considering it said it was done right, meant that they were subjective, that they were looking for victims, and therefore that was demonstrated in that way. Look, Mr. Barrio, if you already knew from illo tempore that it was a failed project, why did De Andrés, Basagoiti, Alonso, Maroto and Soria take those so lame pictures in the car? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u133	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Since the discussion has ended, the original text of Mr. Barrius Baroja's motion is made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 30; contraries, 43; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u134	So he didn't accept it. Then we'll vote for the whole crew's leadership of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 44; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abstain, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u135	So it's accepted to the full correction of the Basque Socialists. I interrupt the whole meeting till four-fifteen. It was two and forty-two in the afternoon. The meeting began again at four-thirty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u136	Good afternoon. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the EHGG of the Belsen Rockores, concerning the measures which are to be taken before the state of the EAAE contractors. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Arrido, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u137	Thank you. Good afternoon... I will not say "all" this time; at least to those who are here at this beginning. As you know, we asked Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzia, about the various measures to be taken before the state in which the New Year's Society has been made on the 20th of May. And when he answered, it didn't seem clear to him from our point of view, the opinion he's got about to do anything, much less what he's going to do. And that's where this motion comes from. As we said in the assembly of the whole party mentioned, the state of the contract, solidate, minimum sodna, labor agreements, social conversation, or collective negotiation, is only to say and see that they have been delayed in the past few years. The work of Arba, Bizia, and Gipuzia, do not live in the best of circumstances. On the one hand, the basic jurisdictions of the social area are in the hands of the Spanish State, and the measures taken by it in recent years have brought bad consequences into our circle. I'll mention what I said the other day. We have here in 2011 the government of Zalpatero, where, among other things, it seemed to be the state of collective negotiation. In the Basque Country he gave up the sector contract to the negotiation camp in Madrid, which was the first step. Then came the Popular Party, the P.P. government, the imposed form of work. And here he put a deadline on the ultraactivity of the agreements and gave priority to the corporate contract over the professional agreements. And that, too, among many other things. These reforms in our own country are convinced that we are also convinced of this, that the productive and social model in our country is made up of. They may not be good anywhere, but we are convinced that they have not taken our reality into account. They are made to answer the neoliberian logicians, but they have also been reduced to disorganize the pattern of labor, to harm the workers, and, after all, to repair the problems we have not. To win in Conpertivity, to be competitative for paying down, is unfair to those who least have it, to the workers. But not only is it unjust, but it is a great lie. It's no use in our frame. He has brought it to poverty, and has no use at all to create employment of any real quality; he is only being useful to some people in order to fill their pockets more easily. Thus, it is asserted that the economy is involved in the growth cycle, that the purchase power of one of the sub-guldens, vicissis, and Gipus has been more than 4,8% since the last five years has fallen into the state. In the last year, 4% of the state has increased average of the purchase capacity and we've lost 0.7%. And in our country, too, labor is increasing every day. That's why we say that in the past years the reforms which have been imposed from Madrid and that the measures taken are being made against the majority of the Basque People. They bring the impoverishing of our people, do not respond to our wants (not to the social, not to the economics), and they put the future in a difficult situation. It's a collective negotiation, an example of all this, and now his situation, as we all know, is pretty bad, for not saying it's too bad. Not only is the general block, the sterization of compacts, centralization, but the circle of our relationships is lost, and, as I have said, the conditions of labour are reduced and impoverished, and the impoverishing, growing, and growing. Work relationships, more and more, are decided in Spain, and so the last report of the Council of Work Relations has been verified again. It is said yesterday in the data given and the published data that four of the five contracts in the April sector have been signed in Spain. Although we sign in Spain, there are still more and more frequent treaties of Araban, Biscaian, and Gipu, which have already taken place here in the state, and have been signed in the mean time. And again the focus of 2015 is repeated: the sectoral agreements signed by Madrid affect more Basque workers than those agreed in the Autonomous Community. State-level agreements that in some cases prevent negotiations in other areas without the prior authorization of the signatories in the State, or prevent some issues from being negotiated in lower areas. As I also mentioned in the full control, we have clear examples of all this. So I mentioned gardening, restoration, hairdressing... We have hospitality, for example, where the opening of new areas of negotiation is prevented if the state even commission does not allow it. We have canned products, which do not allow a lower level of negotiation than the state, and which has left Bizkaia's, although it was in force at the moment, with no effect. We can talk about the state framework agreement on care for dependent people, or the first state metal agreement. And, if we look at which sectors are being given preferentially – I also mentioned this, but it is important, and it is important to say it again – this stateization of collective bargaining is having a greater impact on agreements that mostly affect women. And this has a direct impact on women's wages and working conditions. And besides that, when we say that there have been three points between men and women's hire from 2008. In addition, only 28.2% of workers have regulated their working conditions in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, while 71.8% (71.8%) have unrenewed or fallen agreements: without renewing 53.3%, according to data released yesterday, and 18.5% of workers. In consequence of all this, as I have said before, the conditions of work are being reduced, and there are still more and more persons who, even if they are a work, have to earn their wages with the rent of money, for example, access to the minimum. There is also a means of dividing wealth through the drinking of a collective negotiation, or at least it should be. In front of this panorama, we don't talk about it for the first time. And with this state (work-form, collective negotiations, the state of difference in their intercourse with them) it has been made, among other things, the last proposal of their intercourse, which has had the complete disagreement of all the unions, and also that which places the mutual relations of labour within our limits. And he's comfortable because he gets support and approval from institutions and fun, or at least because he thinks so. I also told the chief physician that the day before, when we made an appointment, I wouldn't say anything the other way, that we could see affection and protection from the fun. And the answer wasn't clear enough, because, after all, what Mr. Chief of the department told me was that in some cases he had said or that he liked it for the patriarchal, sometimes not for the unions. I think that's very unbalanced, too, right now. That's not so true. And in this context we have introduced this motive. What do we demand by this motion, by means of this proposition? At the first point we demand to reject the legislative, which is the case with the contractors, the separation of the labors, and the uneasiness of what is going on, because, consequently, the conditions of the labourers are weakening, and wages are being lowered in our countries. We think the Parliament can't look the other way. At least we're worried about this. The status of the collective negotiation is a violation of the workers' situation, but it is also a direct assault on the collective negotiation's eucalyptics, which the majority of the people here do not consider. In the second place, we're asking you to ask me if you want me to ask you to work with you and take an active position in a collective negotiation plot. And I will explain, considering the political and unional majority, from our point of view, and even when we made an interaction with the Chief Toñan, that's what we're saying. We saw two moments. One is the position taken on July 7th, 2013, the attitude taken in those months, and that ended with Confebask's refusal. But what we have seen after this is, as I have said before, that, as if nothing had happened, the enterprises and events of Confebask are preserved. I'll take advantage of him, too, to remember what Confebask said these long months. But it's like when you're talking to me like that, you know? The president of Confebask proposes that the tax reduction applies in 2017; the employer does not want the labor reform to be repealed; it costs many millions for Basque officials to work thirty-five hours; the trade union centers are in the early 20th century, generate artificial conflicts... A shameful statement. And to be the patriarchal that we don't even know his delegation. And this is another subject, for another time, but one thing to say. And why do they show such courage? As for the rest, we at least believe that they are protected from governments. And they dare to say these things and play like a hobby with the government, and we think it's not fun to answer that level where it should be. And how to answer? Taking an active attitude, taking an attitude to promote working events. And I'm sure that's not something you like about a lot of patriots, but that's what you should be doing. And what we plan at our third point is, that, in some measure, our production model, and our mutual relations with so-called social reality, it is necessary to determine that it should be an instrument in order to obtain a just and cohesion of society. And therefore we say, that in all new Common-wealths, which in the future should be negotiated, the legislative is bound to decide, and commit the whole Jurisdiction thereof. The whole right, because we need all we need to do to make sure that we don't have to go on with the nicest and instances in Madrid. As I said at first, because we need our needs, our reality, our relationships to the majority, because we need the survival of our work purposes. As a matter of fact, the Social Party and the Jeltists of the Party have submitted the corrections. When I saw the corrections, I realized that there was no chance of making an agreement with either of them, so that at least today, at least, he would be arguing for me. I've received a special surprise with one correction to the other. Especially because I don't quite understand why they have a contrary attitude to various subjects or matters, but I have seen that the middle course is in the same way. So, since I don't have time for this shift, I'll take the next round of the middle-way for my rating and examination.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u139	Good afternoon. In full agreement with you, Mrs Arrondo, that the state of labour relations in Euskadi is, in short, horrific. End of coincidences. Of course, you have warned in time that, indeed..., but not before seeing the amendments, in all probability even before seeing them, that in this debate there would be few coincidences, even starting from the fact that the state of labour relations is actually far from ideal and has important areas of improvement, but, as you attribute it to a number of causes that you have just explained, for our group, of course, nothing further. Because some of the issues that he raises could be dealt with if those who invoke these reasons had some apex of coherence, but we understand that not. In Leninist tradition, the unions were the transmission belts of the parties, but I see that you are investing that relationship and you bring here just the appeals of that trade union majority that blames the state of labor relations on everyone, but you do not look at yourself, considering that it is precisely the differential factor of what trade union representation is in the rest of the state. Here, the majority union representation is what it is, and we have just the lowest coverage rate of collective agreements, as you have just said. He begins by raising a number of points, and talks about the stateization of the conventions. Indeed, if there is an organ or entity that can really establish with authority and rigour what the state of labor relations is, it is the Labour Relations Council, which, by the way, is the first that was created in the Spanish State (then came others), and it is also done through a normative source that has the rank of law, and precisely this type of body with the rank of law has better service, more efficiency than others that with different names and with other normative sources also regulate labor relations in the autonomic sphere. Well, the Labour Relations Council in its socio-labor report for the first quarter of 2016 says: "For several quarters now, the wage increase of the existing agreements in the entire state has been higher than that recorded in the conventions of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Thus, the wage increase recorded at the end of March 2016 in the State as a whole was 1.12%, while that in our community was slightly below 1.06". Well, if we have to address these arguments, which seem to be supported by the data and credible information, this detracts from what you suggest that state agreements lower wages. This at least dispels it. He's openly unravelling it. Therefore, that argument, in the end, can be handled, can be said, as long as it does not contrast with the data. And, therefore, that can be bought as an exercise of faith, but the data they say is that... What, however, is the answer to the fact that we have a greater presence of state conventions? It is well known that there is a permanent and long-standing blockade on collective bargaining. This is known. And there have been several episodes in which we have tried to break that blockade, and that has not been possible precisely because the trade union majority is in that thesis. It has the whole right of the world to do so, trade union freedom also includes this faculty, but what is not to be received is that after that it is allowed to pose that the problem is not in the social partners, but is going beyond the border. No, we can't accept that. In its second point, which speaks of the Basque framework of labour relations, this is another point. Basque framework for labour relations. Well, in the Basque Labour Relations Council, which is bipartite in nature, where the meeting between social and economic agents would take place, that trade union majority is also not there. Nor is it, but it is not an obstacle for it to be on the Spanish Economic and Social Council, not on the Basque side, to be on the General Councils and Executive Commissions of Social Security or the Social Institute of the Navy, or on the bodies for the prevention of labour risks, and it is also on the National Consultative Commission on Collective Agreements. In other words, it has no problem in being present in areas of representation of the Spanish State; however, it makes the institutions that we have given ourselves here empty. Man, that seems to us a bit mocking, a bit insulting, because where trade union activity should first be exercised is in this field of representation. And we do not say with this that this area of negotiation, or this area of debate and discussion, must necessarily give rise to agreements. You don't necessarily have to! But if confrontation is invoked as a great paradigm of a trade union strategy, confrontation is verified precisely by confronting, posing, and then actually establishing what are the discrepancies, what are the reasons for the disagreement. But it is that, when there is neither intention nor intention to carry out any kind of dialogue, and nothing more and nothing less is despised than the very fact of the dialogue itself, for it is really not possible to believe any of this. There have been over time, Mrs Arrondo, and you know it, several attempts, several episodes to actually try to unlock this situation with collective bargaining, and this has not been possible because the majority trade union force uses that representativeness to block all that. And to say that, since no agreements of a statutory nature can be made, neither can those of limited effectiveness be made. That is, preventing others from carrying out agreements of limited effectiveness, also in the exercise of their trade union freedom. Then it tells us in the third point that the labor relations according to our model of production, our reality..., consequently in relation..., new status to negotiate... Look, the union Workers' Committees have presented concrete proposals recently, has submitted proposals on the collective bargaining and labour relations of Euskadi. We do not necessarily have to agree with this, but this is at least a clear proposal to unlock collective bargaining, and to activate labour relations and improve their state. When we, as a parliamentary group, see clearly that the other trade union forces make proposals and make concrete contributions on how to unlock this, beyond the proclamations and beyond denouncing what is happening below the Ebro, it is that this seems to us basically, in the end, to us, costumerism, folklore... The important thing is the defence of workers' rights, and as a result it cannot be said that the trade union majority in Basque Country is giving that protection, because, as you have asked yourself to say, the coverage rates are really far below what the Spanish average would be. But there is still more data that are quite eloquent. It is that the agreements that ELA signs, the agreements that ELA signs, give coverage to fewer workers than the union representation that it has as a union; which does not happen to the other unions, that the agreements that they sign give coverage rates higher than the union representativeness. Therefore, from there we can clearly deduce that this position, which is lawful, is legitimate, of course, but it does not give rise, much less, to reproach the rest of the world that the state of affairs, the state of the situation, the state of labor relations, the lack of collective bargaining... Because there have been important attempts to activate collective bargaining and to give preferential application to territorial sectoral agreements, and that has been said by trade unions that do not make up the trade union majority, but that has fallen into a broken bag. Why? Because, curiously and coincidentally, there has been a trade union strategy of favouring nothing more and nothing less than the company agreements, which was precisely the central objective of this labor reform of the Spanish Government that has been so criticized. Therefore, it seems to us of such degree of inconsistency and inconsistency... Their reasons will have to do so, but it is not acceptable to us, of course, to buy such proposals, such offers, because the main thing is missing: coherence with the acts themselves. If there really is a willingness to improve labour relations and to improve collective bargaining, that proves to be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u140	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good afternoons. We have often spoken in the Parliament before the state of Eukadin's relationships. It is clear that there is no traffic in their best condition, and that collect has introduced the plan today to ask for precautions about this situation. We may agree in Diagnosia, it is true, that in the intercourse of labour there has been a marked backward steps; the condition of the contract of labor is worse than that of the contract of labor, without force or renewing it, and the condition of the collective negotiation is serious. And you yourself, Mrs. Arrido, as you have repeated to-day, and as you have repeated to me, the measures taken from the Spanish State, which possess the basic jurisdictions of the social world, have produced severe consequences, and are being brought into our circle. That's fine, too. More than once the Jest Party has declared that it is not agreed with the forms of work in the state, and in consequence of which we make a complaint of the inferior conditions of work which result from it. Even on the day of the intern, Zapater's work form of 2011, and Rajoy's work form of 2011, had been mentioned as guilty of today's serious situation. The first gave the opportunity to negotiate the deals in this sector, or to prevent them from deciding in Madrid's negotiation camp. And the second appointed the ultraactivity of the contract and gave priority to the corporate contract over the professional agreements. As you well know, we are against the latest labour reform. We have said this in countless occasions, and they can count on this group to, within the current lawfulness, turn the situation around, to work and to put it out of effect. It is also an unquestionable reality that many collective agreements have not been renewed in Euskadi for years and years before the last labour reform. It has been the strategy followed by one of the trade unions with the highest representation in Euskadi. It has also been part of its strategy, not so far away, to strengthen the signing of company-to-company agreements, giving priority to these over sectoral ones, as Mr Itxaso has also mentioned. It is a strategy that we do not share but that has been endorsed by ELA for a long time. And, as the saying goes, "Of those dusts, these muds." Now that labour reform has unbalanced the relationship of forces between employers and workers, trade unions, especially the abertzales, are in a precarious situation, where their power has been seriously damaged, and they have launched a campaign against the stateization of collective agreements, seeking the support of Basque institutions. And as an example, today's initiative presented by EH Bildu, which embraces most of ELA's claims. You said in your mind that it's absolutely necessary to take action from public institutions, from fun. Why? What are they supposed to do? Mrs. Arrido, we've told you over and over again: The agents of collective negotiation are representatives of corporations and workers. The government is out, and that's how the unions want to continue. It's not his jurisdiction, but, yes, he's willing to help you, you know. The government of President Urkullu will continue to work. This was the first point of our correction. and if they do not wish to be united, it is difficult for them to do so. The two parts that are part of a collective negotiation can't be made either by a crew or by a man to make a deal. The conditions may be established to facilitate negotiation or conversation, but they are at their disposal, and remain within the limits of their autonomy. With regard to the original initiative, we share the view that the stateization of collective agreements does not in general favour the working conditions of the workers of Euskadi. But why have so many sectoral collective agreements not been signed or updated? How many Euskadi workers do not have the coverage of a collective agreement? Something of responsibility will have both business representatives and workers' representatives! We seem to forget that the holders of labour relations are the business representatives and those of the workers. That was their responsibility, and if the Government entered that area it would be criticized for interference. So, a little serious. The second point of the motion calls on the Government to take a proactive attitude that is already taking place, in our view. The Vice-Adviser of Employment, the Labour Inspectorate and the Labour Relations Council make a remarkable effort at brokering, which is their work, and support for the negotiation and resolution of conflicts. They are continually willing to promote and support negotiating agreements, always at the request of either party. Otherwise, the unsolicited intervention of third parties outside labour relations distorts the systems of collective autonomy. I've made a number of proposals to the social producers, and even those who have brought these things at the table for the social interview are on the table to discuss them. But, as you know, some people have decided not to participate. In the usual way, it's easier to ask others to act as a proactive attitude than to have one's own attitude. And that's what we're saying because you brought here what you're asking for unions. There is the Social Dialogue Bureau, where you can deal with all the issues that you mention on your initiative, Mrs Arrondo, table at which the majority abertzale unions have decided not to participate. Legitimate? Yeah. Irresponsible? Also. It is easy to tell others what they have to do and ask for a proactive attitude, and not to do anything, to maintain a totally passive attitude towards their own competences: dialogue, consensus, agreement, signing of agreements... It also seems important to us to point out the fundamental work that trade union representatives have in maintaining and creating jobs, and the share of responsibility – that of some unions obviously greater than others – that they could also have in their destruction. The third point of the initiative is a toast to the sun, a desire that we can share in a certain way, but tell us how it is carried out respecting the current legality. And as for the Social Dialogue Bureau, which was the basis of the Socialist Party's amendment, it seemed to us to be what they were proposing, and we have come to a compromise which reflects what has been requested of us, to which has been added that of the Socialists, with the collective always respecting the competences of the Labour Relations Council, which in our view also has much to say on this matter. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. No corrections... He mustn't speak. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. He spoke of the motion for measures to be taken by the Government in the face of the state of labour relations in Euskadi. I believe that, Mrs Arrondo – which you are free to ask the Government – you should also look at some cases outside this Parliament and outside the Basque Government, at what measures can be taken to improve labour relations in Euskadi, and, no doubt, probably more effective measures. First of all, the initiative proposes the rejection of the stateization of labour agreements, a materialization of the Basque framework of labour relations, and finally, that this framework and only that framework constitute the tool for achieving a more just and cohesive society. And it calls for a new status in which competition in this area is full. The motion, as you have said, causes the question of what this Government should do to promote collective bargaining in our community. And I told him: what can others do? What others can do, and much more effective than what this Government can do. Because our group agrees with something the counselor said, that the root of collective bargaining lies in the will of two opposing parties: the employer and the representation of workers. It is these who have to counter their interests and reach an agreement, a pact. But, as Mr Itxaso has said, that is what we must confront, and to confront we must sit down. And from governments and institutions, what can be done is to promote such negotiation and brokerage, but not replace it. Because it is also good to broker to reduce the levels of labor conflict, because that generates confidence, and that confidence brings with it an increase in competitiveness, which is good. Because you here today have satanized competitiveness, but competitiveness is good for economic growth and, therefore, for employment. They speak, as I said, at the first point in the stateization of collective bargaining, and they also satanize it. It seems that statehood is absolutely pernicious. Mr Itxaso has already told you that in some cases it is not so much. And they go back, of course, to putting labour reform as a cause of it. And you do not do it alone, Mrs Arrondo; it is also true that Mr Toña did it the other day, because whatever it is to blame Madrid, it is always welcome. You here today, and the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, too, have spoken of the two labour reforms; yet Mr Toña has not. Mr Toña was forgotten to mention the 2010 labor reform, labour reform in which the Basque Nationalist Party abstained, and it was thanks to that abstention as it went on, and which clearly influences, it is true, the structure of collective bargaining, by amending article 104 of the Workers' Statute. Then we have to say that we have to go beyond the reform of 2012. But we have to go beyond not only that of 2012, but also that of 2010. We must go beyond labour reforms, because these are not the causes of the difficulty of collective bargaining in Euskadi. The problems of collective bargaining in Euskadi come from afar. The weakening of collective bargaining processes is not the sole cause of labour reform. They don't lie, they don't. And we have not said that since the People's Party, nor has the Madrid Government even said that. No, no, It was the trade union centres themselves that made this statement. To be fair with their approaches, it is true, I will say that they are trade union centres that point out that labour reforms have been able to exacerbate the problem of collective bargaining in the Basque Country, but that the problems come from behind, by the systematic blocking of the negotiation and the bet on a model of low coverage of agreements. This is evidenced by a union that is not suspicious of agreeing with the People's Party, which is the Basque Workers' Commissions, in the presentation of a document in which it takes stock of the evolution of collective bargaining since 2002-2014. You stressed, Mrs Arrondo, in the interpellation, that the framework of collective state bargaining is above the autonomous framework, and that Euskadi has given in to the negotiation of the Madrid conventions. Well, this concern that the proponent was showing, and that seems to be a concern now of some unions, however, is sceptically looked at by other unions, that what they say is that I wish that concern had arisen before. Because it is true that until 2010 the prevalence of provincial and autonomous state agreements was automatic; from 2010 onwards, it is necessary to sign intersectoral or sectoral agreements or autonomous community agreements. Article 83.2 of the Staff Regulations states that agreements may lay down the rules governing the settlement of disputes between agreements in different fields. That is to say, Mrs Arrondo, that since 2010 the prevalence of autonomous community agreements can also be maintained, which will affect what is regulated at the state level, provided that it is agreed by a majority. But in order to do this, we need something more than criticising and being on the banner: we need to sit down and negotiate. And some unions haven't, because it's not their style. Some who are now very concerned have not participated in the negotiations that might have prevented that. And, for example, trade has an armored sectoral collective bargaining in Euskadi, and that is why unions like Workers' Commissions wonder, what is good for trade, why is not good for other sectors. This union has also pointed out that collective sectoral bargaining is not incompatible with the negotiation of company agreements. As has also been said here, both from this union and from UGT consider it necessary to overcome the current blocking situation and which, based on the defence of the territorial sectoral agreement, is combined with the negotiation of the enterprise area. And in 2013 they tried, and in a document of January this year, which contains proposals for action – which is what Mr Itxaso has pointed out – regarding the structure of collective bargaining and the concurrence of collective agreements, they point out the need for an inter-branch agreement that guarantees, under Article 83.2 of the Workers' Statute, the application preference of territorial and inter-territorial agreements signed in Euskadi that are in force, over any other sectoral agreement or framework agreement of a pre-existing State or subsequent to the signing of a possible agreement. Then it seems, Mrs Arrondo, what tools there are. Another thing is that some do not want to use those tools, because, of course, being on the banner is always more comfortable than sitting down to negotiate, it seems to be. Secondly, they propose a classic too: the achievement of an own framework of labour relations, which we have also discussed more often in this House, because there have been previous motions calling for this same compromise. And I ask you, Mrs Arrondo: a Basque frame, for what? So you don't come? Then, as with the Social Dialogue Bureau, do we have to analyse the socio-economic model in advance, because if this socio-economic model is not changed, we cannot hold meetings of the Social Dialogue Bureau? Because, besides, if some people don't go, they don't want to... They want the deck broken, no meetings. In addition – I told you when we discussed it last time – it seems that this own framework, that replacement of the socio-economic model is the panacea that solves all the problems. When they were able to have their own areas of action, some trade unions did not want them. And I'm going to give you an example, the arbitration case. The law provided that, in the absence of agreement between the parties, there was provision for a body that could resolve that discrepancy. This body was the National Consultative Commission on Collective Agreements for those workplaces of enterprises located in the territory of more than one autonomous community, and in other cases the corresponding bodies of the constituted autonomous communities were used for this purpose. When this body was to be set up here, some trade unions did not want to. They didn't want to. They didn't want to, and they dilated it. And, moreover, finally this organ, known as ORPRICCE, was created, but without the participation, for example, of LAB. And finally, he took advantage of, he took advantage of, of course, to write the letter to the Magi and apply for the new status. They don't seem to call him independence anymore. The euphemistic nomenclature of the Basque Nationalist Party already prevails, and you too speak of new status. And they demand full competence in labour matters. And what I want to ask you is, Mrs Arrondo: is the full exercise of that competence before, or after changing the socio-economic model? Finally, we have not proposed any amendments to your motion, because we believe that, beyond the complaint, beyond the banner, there are ways to achieve what is proposed, of course, with regard to statehood, because in relation to the framework of labour relations itself we have discussed it on other occasions, and they have not just defined what it is and what they want it for. And in relation to the last point you make an absolutely maximalistic assertion: that there will only be a just and cohesive society if everything is decided here; otherwise, no. Let me disagree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u144	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u145	Miss Llanos, you are behind the wild reforms. So I don't think it's new to me that you don't worry about this situation, that you don't have a problem with this development. But, fortunately, your political positions in the Basque Country are every day smaller, they are residual, and therefore we hope to make these discussions another way, among others also. Itxaso jauna, Mr.Itxaso, I knew it would be difficult to agree on something with the Socialist Party on this subject, but from this point on, when EH Bildu brings a proposal you again devote yourself to criticizing..., instead of responding to EH Bildu, to responding to a union... That I don't understand why, because what EH Bildu has brought here today is a proposal that defends EH Bildu, and which coincides with the union majority in this country. The problem that Mr Itxaso may have with some union, which is also repetitive, will have to be solved in another framework, from my point of view, but not by responding to EH Bildu as if it were that union, because we are something else. In any case, I do not know who we will be representing, for some and for some (also Mrs Arregi has mentioned the same). Perhaps you, the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party and the representative of the Socialist Party, should ask who you are defending here today also from this rostrum. They've made it clear who we're defending. And who are you defending? Because you've inserted two points in the middle. In the first place, social conversation, social dialogue, which the Social Party repeatedly places on the table and as one proposition. What social conversations is Mr. Ichaso talking about, or, in this case, Mrs. Argrei? Is there a social interview? As far as I know, there are not even all present: As far as I can tell, Comissionnes went out of Oberas. What are you talking about? What table are you talking about? What exists: Something we don't know? That's part of it. I don't know about that. He helps to set up other initiations. You say it's the most common union in the world. Again and again. Don't you think that your relationships are at this moment highly unbalanced? Do you think that the unions, which have the majority, or have minority, are guilty, for instance, of being fired, of labouring, of wages, ornaments, etc., and so on? I am a little ashamed to hear it, to see how we are engaged, and what are the interests of our present occupation. And do you think that from this table, Jeltarian Party, you can defend the euscal field of intercourse? Up to now, I thought you were defending this, the Esshela's work camp. You think it can be defended from that table right now? We say no. And we're convinced we're not. Besides, I've already said I was impressed by your rights. At the first point, we don't understand what the problem of the Jeltarian party is about to say that it doesn't agree with the stability of the contract and the relationship of labor. We're worried about that. that's all you asked for. What's the problem with the Jeltarian Party about that? I can understand that if I don't tell you at the second point, I can understand that it's time for you to say, Mrs. Argrei, but at the first point I don't know where your problem is. It was hirugarren puntuan era ez dakit not two oranges. Zeren zuek hitz egiten duzue status berriaz, éta ore of her egun batzuk, you had this honetan bertan, Ortuzar jaunak esan do que it urgent to meet with EH Bildu to talk about self-government and the new status. Working conditions are also new status; what we are debating here today is a new status. And a new status based only on the current legality, the Basque Nationalist Party will tell me how it is done. Labour relations are talking about a new status. It does not just say EH Bildu, that institutions have to influence labour relations. I don't have time to read everything he said, but read the interview that was given to Adela Cortina, professor of Ethics and Political Philosophy at the University of Valencia, who was in a few days of Caritas in Bizkaia, in relation to the role that institutions have in regulating labor relations and the labour market. It's interesting. And, shortening and ending, it is what you offer to this people, EAJ and PSE, to a table that has died and has no legitimacy at all. That's just what you're putting on the table right now. And you're giving up your responsibility and responsibility again today. And that's why I was surprised, because I thought to you, Mrs. Arreg, that today it would be possible to agree on at least two points of our proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u146	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u147	And that's all. We'll keep going, because at least we're really worried about you and I know how you are around this thing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u149	For we, Mrs Arrondo, candidly tell you that we believe that, despite the fact that in the centre-peripheral tension there are always disturbances and possible competitive invasions and this sort of thing, in this matter we believe and are convinced, and the facts to us confirm, that it is a different problem. It is a genuine abandonment of the functions that trade unions have, in the interests of their freedom of association, to carry out collective bargaining. And, as they also represent that union majority, not only do they not exercise it, but they also say that, if they are not, no one else can carry on something similar. You see, it gives me a certain hilarity to think, after having listened to you about the stateization of the conventions, that this trade union majority does participate in the negotiation of the collective agreement of ports of the State. But, that same passion that puts in that negotiation that is state-wide, why not put it in our field for other things? I have, of course, been very insistent on the issue of the Social Dialogue Bureau. It is neither a fetish nor a totem, at all, but we think it is an area of encounter precisely so that all these discrepancies, all those differences that separate the capital from the work, can be raised; that it paves the way for the different sectoral tables to then be able to carry out negotiations with more chances of success. Because we believe that social dialogue cannot really be a prohibited term. And less so here, when I still remember that the word dialogue was the totem, it was the totem of an entire important sector of society. If dialogue was so important then, appealing to other issues, why can't it be in the field of work? Why is dialogue something to be said now? When the problem is that there aren't even any alternatives! Because the alternative, Mrs Arrondo... You tell us who we stand for. We, with better or worse success, defend workers. And when what we see is that the representation of the workers, invoking it, results in a coverage rate far below what the state average is, then that union exercise seems to us at least disturbing. Worrying. Because that of boasting of a series of things, making great claims, great proclamations... But then the result is what it is. He's the one! And you have quoted it: the state of labor relations, in short, is quite bad, and has few appearances to improve. But it is that the labour relations where they are dealt with are in collective bargaining, and we see that collective bargaining, indeed, is as it is for everything we have said. But, you see, I think there is a shared feeling, including the employer, that perhaps it is time to rethink the issue of working relations in the Basque area. That is also the view of trade unions which do not belong to the majority of trade unions. Is the trade union majority in this thesis of rethinking, along with the rest of the forces and institutions and organizations, and trying to see where new models of labour relations can be sought? Of course, in the beginning there will be no coincidences, logically, because the interests that face capital and work already know that they are not the same, but it is precisely for this reason that these meeting bodies are created, in order to resolve the differences, in order to shorten them, and in order to see what the meeting points are. And we, as a parliamentary group, find it important that all efforts be made to improve the conditions in a clear way. That improve the conditions of workers and that, by extension, improve the whole economy and society: improve their working conditions, improve domestic demand, there is more social peace... In short, there are countless advantages that have to say that labour relations are not peaceful, because they are never going to be peaceful, but that they are based at least on certain consensuses, on a certain capacity to integrate wills. That's what labor relations councils are for. Because that framework that you pose is feasible, it is legitimate to aspire to, but now we have instruments that can perfectly narrow down our Basque area of decision-making in labour matters, and there are union forces that make a comb with all that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u150	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u151	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. Today's motion was about the state of business, I think, and the measures to be taken to change the situation, and to restore it to that difficult situation. And I told you we agreed on the diagnosis. That the relationship situation is not good? Okay. That it's disreputed, and that the forms of work have increased or increased the balance? Yeah, okay. But you can't always throw the balls out and take responsibility on the others. No, no, Mrs. Arrido. Where's your job relationship status being treated? They're in collective business. Why aren't the convents on eucain running? Whose responsibility is that? Are you kidding me? Not really. Who are the agents in collective convictions? Representatives from corporations and workers. Why don't they agree? Government does its work, it's trying to encourage it, to find harmony, but, as you know, if someone doesn't want to come to an agreement, it's very difficult to get it. That's clear. Gero hitz egin duzu... that Ortuzar was talking about the new status, and that the working conditions are also new status. Ortuzar is waiting for them to meet to talk to him, but it's just that his previous representative said they weren't going to participate in that stage, that circus... We're still waiting. If you want to talk about it, we'll talk about it, but we're waiting. You mention Ortuz and Ortuz waits to talk about it. And, on the other hand, you see that all the teams have said the same thing to you, that everyone here has their responsibilities and that it's easy to introduce a motion here and say to you, "You don't do" what are you gonna do? "Well, you ask the others. No, you introduced a motion to ask for a few things and we've justified the reason why we don't see what you're asking for. And one more thing. We thought today's debate wasn't about an euscal camp. We've talked about it, and we're here approved of initiative, including our vote. To talk about convents and job relationships today... You always do the same: First, ye bring the general, and then ye begin to bring every thing exactly: about this, about the other and the other. We talked about the Basque countryside and agreed to your teams and ours more than once. But today was a very precise thing, and I'm telling you again, because that's how I see it clearly and also the other representatives have told you to protect the campaign that some unions have started, and to bring it here and to institutionalize that campaign. And we're not ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Finally, the Euskal Potula Group representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u153	Thank you again, Madam President. Well, Mrs Arrondo, the truth is that I don't think I'm going to run out of my time, because almost everything you've said and because you've not limited yourself to me... not even answered me. You, as on so many other occasions, hand out notebooks from who has representation and who does not, and you have told us that we were residuals. That we were residual. It reminds me of another time when it was decided who could do politics in this country and who could not, and it seems that some of us could not do politics in this country. Besides, we were threatened with politics. And what you said here today is that we're residuals and that you weren't really going to answer me. You, I'm telling you, seem to hand out notebooks from who has representation or not. You have the representation of the Basques (only you), the representation of the workers (only you), and certain unions, which you say, represent the workers. Others don't, other unions don't. You are the ones who give the label of who defends the Basques, of who defends the workers, and everything that is not that label that you give, then, is not worth it. Because you are making an exchange of views with certain trade unions, especially one to which you refer: you are making trade union work, even institutionalising it in this Parliament, and the others are doing politics. Instead of representing workers' rights, to do politics. Connected! Interconnected and changing their roles. And, in the meantime, the workers, without agreement. Because he didn't answer that! The Basque workers, with these state agreements satanized by you, because certain unions, which will have a lot of representation and the label of EH Bildu, do not want to sit down and negotiate. They don't want to sit down and negotiate. (I listened to him carefully, let me explain.) They do not want to sit down and negotiate, because they prefer to be on the banner, because they prefer to do politics, and it is difficult to reach an agreement and reach an agreement when one does not even sit down. But it's not that you don't feel: it's that you pretend that you don't feel anyone. Because this is like the kid and the ball: "Because I don't play, I take the ball." Well, you're trying to do the same. It's "Like I don't want to go, nobody plays here." And stop looking... That is common to nationalism, always looking at Madrid, and in its own way looking at the rest, everything around it. Everyone's guilty, except for yourselves, isn't it? Well, what I'm telling you is that you call those unions, you call those unions, you tell them to sit down and negotiate, and you tell them to use the instruments that these satanized labor reforms continue to allow precisely to avoid, as you say, that very important evil that is the stateization of the conventions. But for that they have to sit down and negotiate...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u154	Please, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u155	... for that they have to leave the maximalisms, and for that they have to respect others. And it seems, I say, that only some are in possession of the truth. Everyone else, except you, wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u156	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the original text of the Ms. Rocko Underground. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 18; contraries, 54; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u157	So he didn't accept it. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 54; contraries, 18; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u158	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "A proposition made by the Socialists of Euscal, as a team of parliaments, that they may participate more in the plans of the cancer of the breast, and the early diagnosis, about approaching the inhabitants of the Mamography Service, which is far from the hospitals. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Roncal, it's yours to introduce the word and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u159	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Pick up where we are. Ladies and gentlemen, every public system needs an assessment and can submit proposals for improvement, including health promotion, disease prevention and early diagnosis projects. In fact, all of them have undergone improvement projects: compare 20-year-old and today's vaccine projects; they do not look like anything, neither the calendar, nor the type of vaccine, nor the medium in which the vaccine was offered. That is, a programme after time needs to be evaluated, and of course, even if it goes very well, it allows for improvement programmes and projects. Therefore, the proposal we are bringing here today is not a reproach to Osakidetza. The breast cancer screening program works well. It receives 80% of citizens' support, from women who voluntarily decide, while not sick, to go to a review. In other words, the participation of the population in a project, in a programme for the early detection of a disease, requires the voluntary participation of the population, but, on the part of the Administration, a great deal of facilitation of such programmes. We, the Socialist Group, have no initiatives to bring forward. We didn't take them off the sleeve. The ones we bring now are because they have moved us from the population to difficult access to these early detection programs for breast cancer. For example, women who access from the Rioja Alavesa, who have 150 kilometers of return and return, with all the incidents that can occur in any service they attend. For example, they come from the Rioja Alavesa by bus (because the target population participating in this programme are women of fifty to sixty-nine years old, and it is not a large percentage of mostly female drivers; therefore, they come in group or come by bus: cost and time to access the programme), and many times they find themselves, what doubt it is, that the team is damaged, there are technical problems, lack of the doctor..., which makes them come back empty to their home after having lost a morning of work or care to other people (it is also a sector of caring population of other people), which greatly discourages participation in this programme, not only in that year, but for future years. Because we all know that in a voluntary participation program, being in good health, if you fail a year it is very easy to fail the following. We therefore want support for this programme, which now stands at 80%, as Osakidetza herself says, not to remain at 80, but to reach 100% of people's access. And we believe that this proposal is more effective than proposing that radiology services be put in place everywhere and with unlimited access and close to home, because those of us who believe in the sustainability of the public health system defend a rational organization that seeks the best solutions, not only in the short term, but also in the medium and long term, which are solutions that do not require large investments, nor organizational efforts that are not proportional to the population group to which they are directed. In addition, we do not want any woman who can avoid being diagnosed late, and therefore with great personal cost in her life and sufferings..., who can be diagnosed late instead of being diagnosed early, which means much less suffering and services and treatments of much less intensity. But it is also that they are infinitely more sustainable for the health system, because, when a diagnosis of cancer is made late, unfortunately the prognosis is often fatal, while, as has been seen with breast cancer, when the diagnosis is made early the successes are increasing. And, on the other hand, the formula we put forward is not really new. Several autonomous communities close to ours, of every political sign, already have for several years these mobile units for mammograms. For example Navarra, La Rioja, Castile-Leon... It may be argued that these communities have fewer reference centers to carry out this test, or have a greater geographical dispersion than Euskadi, but I also know that we have been pioneers in achieving objectives, and here what we propose as a goal, as I say, is to reach one hundred percent of the early diagnoses. As I said before, it is a question of sustainability for the health system; not only economic savings, but also equity for the group for which the programme is intended. Because if the person living in the Rioja Alavesa does not have access to the program like the one living in Vitoria, that is not equitable. It gives me the same Rioja Alavesa, that the Margen Izquierda, or that Eibar, that has to go to Donosti (150 kilometers of round trip). It's saving time for women, it's saving in cancer development, it's saving in suffering and in future health spending. Of course it means a disbursement now, but it is a huge future savings in health spending. But since all prevention programs require investment, they require spending. That is, vaccines have a significant cost, but we all agree that it is necessary to make an effort in purchasing vaccines that avoid lots of infections and income, possibly hospital income. Or early diagnosis of colon cancer: it also requires an investment, but look at what health savings there are in terms of subsequent treatments, not just surgery (use of operating rooms, hospital income, radiation therapies..., in short). Other programs, such as PADI, which are also preventive, require spending on contracts with doctors who do this service, but again we return to the enormous improvement of the health of our population, which is our obligation as public authorities, and they also entail great health benefits and quality of life for the population, in addition, as we say, great savings in hospital income, pharmacological treatments..., which in turn require specialized personnel and equipment. All these early diagnosis programs require, as I said before, awareness of the population to which they are directed, and voluntary participation of a non-ill population. What should the Government offer in return to facilitate accession? It must offer accessibility and free of charge. That is why we are surprised by the defensive attitude of the group that supports the Government, with its usual "continuation". Look, "what you keep doing" does not allow for improvement in adherence to the programmes! Here we have the PADI programme, which has been in existence for years and years with a small proportion of adherence to the programme. Is the Government doing anything to improve this accession? Well, we certainly don't get the information. But it will not be my group that, with so much reason to criticize the Department of Health, does not seek, as we say, a programme that is totally effective and that covers the remaining gaps. And this is a way. I know we are close to this Parliament closing its doors, but the government must work until the last day on which the lehendakari decides to hold elections. What we ask you to do is to plan the acquisition of the vehicle, the technical equipment, the health personnel, and to plan according to the female distribution between fifty and sixty-nine years to which this service is directed, so that the next Department of Health can implement it immediately. We believe that this programme, as we say, after twenty years of operation, allows for improvements, and that is what we Socialists put forward in different localities, because there is social demand. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Passing the bookies to the popular Euscal Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u161	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Let's go, legebiltzarkideok. We're discussing a proposition of the Socialist Party and it seems that the Social Party and EH have come to an agreement on this subject, although the proposals did not at first agree. At last, though one asks for one thing and the other asks for a different thing, it seems that they've come to an arrangement. And so we find ourselves with an agreement of an amendment of compromise between the Socialist Party, proponent of the initiative, and the party of EH Bildu, which recently come to many agreements, and especially in the field of health, which is the one that most concerns this parliamentarian...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u162	Please, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u163	And, as I say, to a somewhat surprising deal. Because, if we read carefully the different points, they come to ask one thing, and even the opposite in another of the paragraphs. But then I'm gonna stop at him. Indeed, breast cancer is one of the most frequent malignant tumors with the highest mortality among women in the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u164	Please, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko. Hence the importance of early detection. An early diagnosis is one of the best tools to reduce mortality, act in the early stages, improve quality of life, and avoid going to radical surgery. So much so that this group..., and some parliamentarians – because they were the ones who led the debate – who are in this legislature are witnesses, and Mrs Roncal too, of how this group has presented throughout the previous legislatures numerous initiatives to expand this early detection program of breast cancer and extend it to women from the age of forty-five. The CAPV detection programme, as mentioned here, was first introduced and implemented in 1995 in Álava and Alto Deba, and then in 1997 it was extended to the rest of the CAPV. It comes from fifty to sixty-four years, and in 2006 it was extended to sixty-nine years. But I also have to say that with the Socialist Government it was possible to extend this programme: if not the coverage of that band from forty-five to sixty-nine years, it was possible to include enlargement from forty years (i.e. from forty to forty-nine years) for those women who had a family history of breast cancer. This was possible in 2011, with Mr. Bengoa being a counselor. As I said, the goal is to detect possible breast cancers at the earliest possible stage, in order to reduce mortality from this cause and improve the quality of life of those affected. And indeed, Mrs Roncal, one of the objectives of the programme is to increase participation, which is quite successful in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, a participation within the early detection programmes that we have of the highest, reaching figures that exceed 80%. Much higher than, as you have pointed out here, the prevention and oral care plan for children or the plan for the prevention and diagnosis of colorectal cancer. The procedure is that women are quoted, who enter the programme in that age group (without prejudice to enlargement to women with a background), are quoted once every two years. They come to the different units, they are made two projections, and when the result is not conclusive in their reading, that this sometimes happens, women are re-quoted in the different detection units to perform complementary tests of a non-invasive character (or new mammograms, or also ultrasounds). Both, or one of them, if necessary. When it is even suspected that there is an malignant tumor, it will be sent to the hospital complex, because obviously mammography is not enough and that diagnostic process must be completed, or even already enter the therapeutic phase. There is even the possibility that after some radiologist or radiologist has seen the mammograms, as I say, it is necessary to complete this study to perform other tests (as I said, ultrasounds or mammograms). For us the aim must be to increase the participation of the programme, which is one of the highest, but it is true that we cannot be satisfied, and that is why we have proposed in our amendment that the causes of why women do not come to it be analysed. There are women who are equal because they are not sufficiently sensitized, they do not get the information..., or they have access difficulties, which is another issue that we have raised in our amendment to be discussed. Or there are women, as we all know, who even go to private health to perform a mammogram. In short, in order to expand that coverage..., rather, that participation of women, we believe that we must analyse those causes why women do not come to him. And, indeed, ensuring accessibility in the various areas of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, with its peculiarities, and the peculiarities peculiar to each territory, is the best way to guarantee access in equity or equality in access, in this case, to the health system. That is why we also propose that this study should analyse the access difficulties of women, especially in rural areas, who, as has also been clearly reflected in Mrs Roncal's intervention, have difficulties. And also that the different areas of the three territories are analyzed, because it is not the same, in Alava, the area of the Rioja Alavesa that the area of the Llanada, or that the area of the Mountain, or idem in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Therefore, even each area may require a specific solution as well. As for mobile mammography units, indeed, Mrs. Roncal, there are units in neighbouring communities, but it must be remembered that these units have been implemented and have been launched...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u166	Garrido anderea, mesadez... The moment he beats... Jarrait.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u167	Thank you. That these units were launched as a result of a study and taking into account the geographical dispersion of these two autonomous communities (the Foral Community of Navarra and the Community of Rioja), and that there are fewer reference centres. And they came – I think it's an important difference to keep in mind, because I've bothered to talk to both of them obviously – since the beginning of the program in both places. I mean, the program wasn't set up like here... And, by the way, the programme is of earlier dates, because that of Rioja is 1992 and that of Navarra is 1990, and therefore it was considered there, and as a result of studies, to complement that care with mobile units. I've spoken to them and of course that's what I've been told. And I've been told that these solutions always have to come from a study. They did it at the time, and it seems opportune that if we at this point in the film... Because it was not so with you in the last legislature that you ruled, you did not come up with a solution of these characteristics. Well, if you now consider this to be the time, we consider it reasonable to reach that conclusion through a study. If that solution is needed, let us not say no, but let it come from a rigorous study, and above all to ensure, as you said, the sustainability of the system. We have reached a compromise amendment with the Basque Nationalist Party, which basically reflects our demands to analyse the causes of why women are not currently going to the programme, to raise awareness for greater participation, and to analyse in particular the difficulties of access to the rural area to implement measures, including the mobile unit to carry out the mammograms. Let it be analyzed and let it be said whether or not, but the fruit of a study, Mrs Roncal. Not the result of an occurrence at a given time, with all due respect. But, of course, we are already at the end of the legislature, and you in no budget have raised an amount for this mobile unit, and you when you ruled did not raise this unit. And I am finishing, Madam President, but I would like to dwell on the compromise amendment signed between the EH Bildu parties and the Socialist Party. Because they talk about introducing a mobile mammogram unit, but in a transitional way, until structural measures are implemented! I mean, you're almost less ambitious than us. Because we in the end say that if we have to implant a mobile unit that is implanted, but the result of a study, but you say that a mobile unit of mammograms is implanted to approach the service..., away from the hospital centers..., while structural measures are implanted in the different hospitals. I mean, it's a transitory thing. We are also talking about an economic disbursement close to EUR 400,000; therefore, I think that making a study is convenient, if it is the figures that have given me those who already have experience and have mobile units, Mrs Roncal. That when presenting such initiatives it is also appropriate to have the figures on the table. And, on the other hand, in the third paragraph, which is the original initiative of EH Bildu – I am finishing, Madam President – they talk about carrying out a study to implement a mammogram service in the hospital of Leza. I mean, it's worth the study here, but the study for the mobile unit isn't worth it. And above all you, with your agreement, lower your original initiative, because you make that mobile unit transitory until structural measures are taken in the reference centres. And a question Mrs Roncal: you, who were also defenders, like us, of the agreement signed by La Rioja, so equal to the women of La Rioja you have to ask them that this agreement can be extended so that they can go, as many people come from Logroño to hospitals and to the hospital of Cruces to realize certain issues in the health field! That is, why a study to consider implanting a mammogram unit in the hospital of Leza, and why not consider a study, which is what the other communities did...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u168	Thank you, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u169	Why in some cases and in others not, Mrs. Roncal?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u170	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u171	Good afternoon. The priority of meeting is to ease the access to health services and approach those services. What for? To all the citizens, whatever their country may be, to ensure the health rights. Cheers, understood from the integral view. Not only from a permanent point of view, but in order to promote health as a whole: prevention, diagnosis, treatment, care. Two accounts are being arranged today. One, prevention: Today we are discussing the early detection program of breast cancer. And, on the other hand, the entrance is easy to approach. These two accounts are connected. I mean how to help this service to a region which is separated from the hospital provided by prevention, to a majo in the direction of Arbar Errisha, because it is reality that Abar Errioxa is excluded from Gastize, not only by distance, but also by mental institution, because it is an abandoned region. When we treat other matters in this house, the distance has been used as an argument. I remember when we were talking about the restructuring of the Unibertsitarian Hospital in the Aura, the distant argument was that for the Gastizians the hospital of the Chronicians was far away. Let me ask you something. For the district of Leza, the Arbar of Errisha, is Gastiz not far away? This region, for the Gasteizians, seems to be far away, but for those who live in it, Gasteiz seems not far away. You who dwell in the capitals do not realize that you often do it unconsciously, and that you look at everything from your navel as we live in the province of Boeotia, especially in small villages, where we have to move for anything. In order to offer services, and in order to arrange so many things, everything is from the navel of the capitals, and we often forget that people live beyond the capitals. But I don't mean to say that health services must be in every hospital-that is to say, in every hospital, all the services of all the medical centres are not required. We are very sensible, and besides, it seems to us logical that so many services, if by their degree of specialisation, are to maintain quality, only to be in hospitals. But, to say this, we understand, and it seems to us extremely reasonable that certain services, such as certain programs, to the hospitals of the South, should be brought nearer to the first centres of attention, especially to prevention. On the one hand, not only are the same services of quality in all countries, but the preventive measures, because we find it necessary to facilitate and approach the programmes. We've been talking about this for a long time, that we have to make a change of mentality, and that we have to spread the prevention, and then we'll have to think about something. We need to find a balance, not just quantum or economic, even quantum. We find it necessary to the countryside, to examine the measures of approach to the direction of health, and to search for paths and a balance. Balance, cohesion: cohesion of countries, cohesion within the country. If the health department believes in prevention, it really must. That's what we think. In fact, the program we're talking about today is from 69 years old, and the life of women beyond that age is useless? I don't know if you ever put yourself on the skin of a woman over 69 years old. How is it possible to feel these women from institutions, when they are told that they ought to be introduced once more into prevention programs, but when afterwards they are told: "I beg your pardon, until I am 69; your life after 69 is of no value." That's what we say when we put the ages together. Can we understand that in young people the danger is less dangerous and the beginning is later, but women above 69? I leave it there for reflection. At his own moment, at the Board of Health, we proposed to become a hospital in the district of Leza. On the side that supports the government, we received a negative, but farther on, what a surprise! The government appointed Erriox of Arbatua Leza to integrate the sanitarian institution in the 28th of December, 2015. We're not saying that the hospital in Leza must be like the Universal Hospital in the Araba, we're not saying that the hospital in Leza should have all the services like the hospitals of Gastize, but we're demanding that it be balanced. And besides, the hospital in Gasteize, with the Universal Hospital from the Unibertsitarian Arbatua, can be made in conjunction. It may be a hospital in the district district, with services adapted to the situation, also when we have an agreement with Erriox, signed on December 2013, so that when it can be done with bordering villages and services can be offered, besides, when the government announced in a parliamentary reply that we have four people, four people, and an integrated sanitarian organizations, and that they must adapt themselves to their regional characteristics. So that's a nice chance, in this district, to offer special and special services, fitted in Abar Errioxa, Lezan, to the region. And that can be done with the Universal Hospital of the Arabs. And what we only ask of the present day is, that in the regions where the fields are concerned, the écade, especially because this is the subject which we are speaking of today, the subject in Abar Errixa, the fairest to promote your health in the region near Leza, and to make it easier for us to study the application of prevention, to identify the correct measures, and to start those correct measurements. We're asking for a commercial measure. We don't need the transition measures permanently stabled here. In fact, I want to remember that at the Arrasa hospital at the Devaren Hospital, we have a truck when there's been a new hospital when there's a number of free space left, and finally the mobile unit has gone out once and for all. And what we need here is spontaneous substructure, not for some things, not for others, not quality for some things, not for others. We understand at a time that temporary means of transition should be devoted to the units, but always this predication, as long as this planning is done, to establish commercial measures. And that's why because we're serious, because we're strict, we're going to put this mobile unit on and make a study while, we need to find out what they're supposed to be for the mamography service in the hospital in Leza. We think that local citizens deserve the same rights, and that in this sense measures may be determined, because we think, as I have said before, that the quality of services is better in structure and stable units. We see it well, as I said before, to take measures during the interval, which is what we have brought to-day. Because we work for the benefit of the people, for the sake of our work, beyond the cells, and with whom we make bargains. And because we are here to obtain and to cultivate compacts, we have attempted this, though others have not agreed to the benefit of the citizens, who prefer other interests to others. On Monday they came; they registered 1,500 signatures in this house, with a particular request, the women of Abar Errixa. So it would be nice to give them an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, everybody. I'll start by telling you that our commitment team is complete with the early cancer program and that's how it's going to be. This engagement has been confirmed by law, and I think it must be admitted. When we saw the equipment, when we introduced it to the full correction, it was our goal to ask you to follow the fun of it, to keep this cancer detection program especially, but also to encourage all the other programs, and to lead the necessary measures and means for that purpose. We thought this was inevitable, and I'd say we all agreed on it. We clearly see that it is also a priority to obtain access and access to programmes constantly. We must always take measures to improve, and in this sense we agree with this plan which has been made here. It is true, and we must confess, as Mrs. Garrido has just mentioned, that the performance rate is now 81%. I mean 81% participates in the program when he's called. This program is open to all the women of the Basque Esquimia in the Esquire; it's called all during the 50-69 years, and in certain cases, when conditions are fulfilled, even women below it. And it doesn't matter how far they live in the Renaissance, that is to say, the entrance to all persons is the same. We believe that the divisional rate is truly high, and if compared to other nations around it, the rate of participation is extremely great. It is true, as has been said here, that the 19% is there and we must encourage them to participate in them. The fact is that 81% of participation rates are homogeneous all over the EGI, i.e. 19% which do not participate are not localised in certain concrete places, but the rate is homogeneous. So, in that sense, we also agree with what's proposed here, that the situation or technology of 20 years ago is not equal to what's now, and that, in years, more efficient treatments, better resources, more advanced technology, and so on, Osar has to do these investments and take precautions to include them in this program. But we believe that there must be some grounds in making such decisions as what is planned to-day, at least if we wish to be based on certain facts, on the one hand, efficiency, and, on the other, the best decision to answer as best possible. On the other hand, we have the results of the last 20 years. It has also been done by the satisfaction of the mind, and it is seen that, according to the polling, most people see this program perfectly well enough, in their way of calling it, and above all, the good results which are obtained by it. Nevertheless, as we always say, we are open to improving things, and we think that it is necessary to continue continually improving them. In this sense, we know that the Medical Department has also stated that he works in it more than once, and that this is why we asked for the accounts of the users. It has been mentioned here the other day that some of the women from Abar Errisha brought us signatures, which must be considered. But it is true that we must consider the opinions, criteria, and so on of professionals who work in the program. There's a balance to make when you make decisions. We must note that we have functional organs of cancer in our bras in Autonomia Er member, management units, bacillation units, mamographers, diagnosi therapy units (zsub). All these, on the seven committees, a committee for each of the referred hospitals. I mean, they have their own criteria. We know that in the legislature we are more and more apparent in the management of health, but they also have something to say, and I think it is necessary to know their opinions, and, according to what they say, to make decisions. For here it has been said that many people have no facility or access to it, and so on. And in that sense, to put a mobile unit in the distance... "unidad movil para acercar el servicio a la población alada de los centos hospiatarianos." That's not very specific. It's not funny. That concept of approaching... We live in a territory where we are two million and little more people, in which we are talking – you said it yourself, Mrs Roncal – about 150 kilometers of going and going... That is, it may be one of the reasons why that 19% does not participate in prevention programmes, but, well, of course, we would like to know or have data on what the real reasons are, and not make assumptions to implement these kinds of measures. In comparison, we have said that 81% of women participate in this programme. We have another similar program, which is colorectal cancer screening, and there the participation is 70%. 70 %, when the procedure is probably even much simpler than it is. Then, the reasons can be several. The reasons may be several, but we don't know them. So, what we understand is that, when implementing these kinds of measures, they have to have a solid basis, at least a scientific basis, or at least an analysis has been made. Therefore, as conclusion or conclusion, we want to introduce improvements into the program, but take measures based on reason and data. We also understand that this program is more and more based on advanced technology and that technology should be more and more advanced. Could that technology be in a truck? We don't know. I may, but at least I have no knowledge of it. That's why I'm saying that it would be all right to know the point of view of professionals and experts in that circle. Our program in the Euscal Autonomy Eremia has been a refrectionerant, it's changed into refractory as the years go by, and we think we should continue this way. On the other hand, and on the point of what the Basque People have said, it is plain, I think that all things are the best; To obtain access, to guarantee access, to approach the villages. But you must consider many other factors, many other variables, when you make such a decision. In the argument you used about the hospital in Leza (what was far from going to it for the Gastesians) there is a complete contradiction. You're thinking of a chronic hospital where the sick must be ingreed every day to get out of Gasteiz, and we're on the other hand here; it's that every two years people come here, making about 150 kilometres, to try some tests, healthy people who aren't sick. The chronics in the hospital of Leza are sick, and they must be there, while their relatives must go there. That is why I assure you that I think there is a contradiction in this argument, and that it has no solid foundation. And, simply, as I have said, we will defend it, and therefore we have agreed on the intermediate side with Popular Party. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u174	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u175	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs Roncal reminds us in the justification of her initiative that the early detection programme for breast cancer was launched in November 1995 in Álava and Alto Deba, being a pioneering activity that in 1997 actually extended to the rest of Euskadi. He points out that "we are conscious" – he says – "the socialists of the wide margin of people who, despite being in good health in principle, voluntarily agree to this plan, but" – he adds – "that when they find it difficult to access them, they easily abandon their participation or can abandon their participation". It notes that the provision of early detection of breast cancer is generally made from hospital units, sometimes far from rural areas, which, in addition to difficulties of travel and sometimes failed trips, discourages this population from participating in the above-mentioned programme. In order to facilitate the population's adherence to this programme, he points out that we should bring the service closer to the target population, and proposes a concrete proposal, which has also been taken over by the EH Bildu group, which is the implementation of a mobile mammogram unit. We do not agree with this proposal. We understand that it is not justified enough. We understand that the claim has goodwill, but we do not agree with the solution proposed. It is one thing to point out that the service can indeed be improved, and it can be improved, and another thing is that we agree on the solution that is being proposed. We do not agree with the solution that is being put forward, it is not sufficiently justified, there have not been enough arguments. And for this reason we..., I myself will vote in favour of the compromise finally signed between the Basque People's Group and the Basque Nationalist Group. In the case of EH Bildu and the Socialist Group there is a solution, we think, wrong or hasty to improve a certain service which in general also works well. The service works well, and great facilities are given for women to come to it. What is even being done, in order to provide a better service and to ensure that no woman can be left out, is to quote women from the most remote regions in a block, so that the women of the villages themselves can organize themselves to go to the tests together. And it is also always done at the time when they have public transport. If they do not attend the first appointment, they will be reconvened for a second appointment at three or four months. Even, therefore, this solution also arises. It is true that those who live 50 kilometers from Vitoria have more difficulty going to a meeting than those who live in the capital, but, in general, we think that those who have interest do everything possible to go to this consultation, and for those who really can't or find difficulties, which obviously there are also cases, it is about facilitating access as far as possible. Facilitate or secure access. And I say that the service, which can be improved, works well, and the participation rates, as has been pointed out, are high. We do not share what the Socialist Group and EH Bildu are proposing. Mrs Roncal pointed out that "we did not get this proposal out of hand." I think it is right for you to point out a certain problem that may exist, because you have been asked to do so, but I believe that the solution that you are asking for is not in line with what a majority of citizens can ask for. And, therefore, I say that, although there are complaints, we do not think that the solution designed is correct. Obviously, it must be made easier for women who do not have access to this service to do so. In this we agree with all groups. And for that we have to analyze in depth why they do not come and what difficulties exist, which is something that is reflected in the transactional signed by the Basque People's Group and the Basque Nationalist Group. On the other hand, we are a small enough autonomous community to implement – we think – these kinds of initiatives. They may have some meaning in other regions such as Castile and León or Andalusia, where there are people who have the hospital closest to tens and tens of kilometres and public transport is very poor; in the case of Euskadi, we think it is not a reasonable solution. Mrs Roncal also pointed out that we have been pioneers in achieving objectives, and we agree, that is true. But we do not agree, I say, with the concrete solution that is being proposed and with the compromise signed with EH Bildu. Of course, it is not a question of sparing budget or services, but of correcting the decisions that are made, and I believe that the transactional signed by the Basque People's Group and the Basque Nationalist Group points in the right direction: it proposes the conduct of a study, analyze the causes why a certain percentage of the population of the programme does not come to it; analyze also the existing difficulties, and put the appropriate solutions. And it even leaves open the possibility of implanting a mobile unit to perform mammograms. With this I believe that this transaction that these groups have signed, in short, can be quite reasonable and voted by a majority of groups. On the other hand, it is true that the conduct of this study could have arisen at the initiative of the Basque Government itself, without anyone asking it to do so, but, finally, we know that this Government is only moving when it is pushed forward, and at least in this case we can say that this debate that you have raised will serve for the Basque Government to carry out that study and take appropriate measures to improve that service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u176	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u177	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the spokespersons for this GNP in which they have raised their views. And some things, then, let me tell you. Mrs Garrido would like to ask, if you believe that the Rioja Alavesa population would have to go to Logroño to participate in the programme of early prevention or early diagnosis of breast cancer, why you have not put it in your amendment. And what do you do with the population of Eibar, or the Muskiz? Because it happens in the whole community! Mr Orbegozo, I very much agree with many of the things you have said, but, look, it seems unfair to me to compare the adherence of the early detection of colon cancer with that of breast cancer, because, if you look at the success of colon cancer, which in five years has reached 60%, because in the breast cancer, which we have been twenty years and have reached 80, we have little support for this programme. Excuse me, twenty years of shooting, it's supposed to be with awareness campaigns, campaigns... and we've only reached 80, and colon cancer in five years is in 60! I think there's a very different support. You point out that a study is necessary. I would believe him and support him if I were honest. And I am not referring to your personal opinion, but to the views of the Government. Because, look, with the milk bank we've been doing a study for two and a half years. Every time we ask the counselor what steps he's taking to launch a parliamentary agreement to implant a milk bank, he tells us he's studying it! Look, if you tell him to do a study for the early diagnosis of breast cancer... So we're going to have to make a big deal out of it. We know what this counselor is! And then, on the other hand, it tells us that 1,500 women from Rioja have brought an agreement and that that, then, is little. But, look, I'm going to tell you one thing: in Erandio there have been 1,400 signatures not to go, not to be integrated into the new hospital in Urduliz, and that's enough for the counselor to say stay in Erandio and go to Cruces. I mean, 1,400 Erandio signatures worth more than 1,500 of the Rioja Alavesa? Because the 1,400 signatures of Erandio have been attended to! Why aren't 1,500 Rioja Alavesa? I would like to say again that I thank you and I also believe in your explanations, but behind that there is a lack of credibility of the department that does not make us at all optimistic about the conduct of a study. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u179	Yes, very briefly, Madam President. Mrs Roncal, I have not simply said that the solution is to extend the agreement, but I believe that the different possibilities and difficulties of access to the rural areas of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country are very different and, therefore, the solutions can also be different. We're not closing in on anything! Nor do we close ourselves at all to a mobile unit, but we want it to be the result of a study such as was done in Navarre and in La Rioja, where there are these complementary mobile units, which complete and complement the early detection program, which, by the way, were put from the beginning in the year 90-92, but from the beginning and fruit of a study. You're telling me not to... I spoke to those responsible for La Rioja and those who were in Navarra at the time to explain exactly how the issue of mobile unit was articulated. We don't say... We say it's the same. If we are much more ambitious than you are in the compromise amendment, you suggest that this mobile unit is transitory! We say: do a study; see how women's participation can be increased or the causes why women, that 17% who are not yet on the programme..., will see how we can increase participation; let's even see, those who are also on private health, why they are on private health. We are going to analyse all that, we are going to increase awareness and awareness campaigns on a topic that is the leading cause of mortality among women, breast cancer, we are going to make an analysis and diagnosis of the access difficulties especially of rural women, and we are going to see what measures can be put on the table to ensure that accessibility and equity. Because when we talk about accessibility and equity, we are talking precisely about accessibility. And among them we have expressly included in our compromise amendment the mammogram unit. But we have not put it in a transitional way, as you have put it in your compromise agreement with the Socialist Party. That's why we, Mrs. Ubera, don't even say that you study... You study the implantation of the mammogram unit in Leza! Well, it's another possibility to put on the table, but we don't close to anything. And with all due respect, Mrs Roncal, on the initiative, but you will understand that it has surprised me that at this point in the legislature, and for a matter of mere coherence... Sure, when you tell us "It's that the teams are broken," well, that's another question. It is a question that, if you are aware that some equipment is damaged, you should bring a specific initiative, that we would support it, so that immediately the equipment that is damaged would be replenished, because that is indeed a serious and important issue. That is, if you are aware that some equipment is damaged, any unit, you should bring an initiative. Of course, as I say, it is a matter of coherence. It is that you have ruled four years, and this is a matter that I have dealt with personally with with you when you ruled, with Mr Bengoa, and when we saw possibilities of expanding the early detection program of breast cancer in Euskadi, that we put that down to forty-five years on the table, never, ever, ever put the necessary alternative of a mobile unit of mammograms. Never. And that I think there were a number of people on that team who knew the situation in Navarre very well. We never got that proposal on the table. You never shagged her when you ruled in the four years. We were never asked that alternative to improve the early detection program for breast cancer in Euskadi. And more: you have amended the budgets over these four years; we have all known what the Socialist Party's amendments have been. Little by little we could have arrived, you could have reached that 400,000 euros worth the mobile unit and we would have had a concrete proposal and an amendment on the table. But you have not even tabled in these four years (three years of budgets there have been) an amendment of these characteristics. And, as I say to you, your compromise amendment lowers your initial claim, because it talks about something transitory, as long as structural measures are put in place in hospitals, which do not specify what. That's right, Leza, you study. For we say that everything should be studied, that the causes and difficulties of these women in the rural areas of Euskadi should be studied in the different territories, each with its own peculiarities, and that measures should be put on the table. And among them, obviously, how not, because we believe it can be a solution, the mobile unit of mammograms, but the result of a study, which is how it has been done in the rest of the autonomous communities where it has been implanted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u180	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. From EH Collect, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u181	Madam Garrido, the conviction you have shown in your speech today, this conviction, is not received in the middle way you have agreed with EAJ. But it's understandable that the EAJ and Popular Party should be handed, although each of them is free to deal with what he wants. Each man decides for what purpose and with whom he bargains. But we think it's a bad taste joke, because it's a bad joke, and it's really ridiculous, doing a test for making a mobile unit when they're already in motion. It's ridiculous, really. And this is the possibility that all doors are closed, and that is to say no to the establishment of proposals and measures. And that's what EAJ and Popular Party did today: the services have been refused to improve, the gates have been closed. We've always said it, and I'll repeat it to-day, that we're not going to go into medical decisions, but that's not our intention. But at least we will try to make sure that the proper conditions and methods of medicine are the best for them to take, and that the professionals of health can make up their minds as best decisions as possible. That's why we're asking for an examination, but we're going to take a test to examine the commercial measures because we're serious and strict. But in the meantime, the temporary measures already running, or the cell, as you would call it, make it work. We take one, a truck. In fact, you're just a bunch of pimples. It's very funny. On Monday the Os Members produced a note saying that these mobile drives don't offer quality services. This is, for the Onion, for the Abar Rioxians, these mobile units don't offer high services, which, for everyone who lives in Devagon, offer the quality of hell for those countries. So what are we talking about? What we ask for is to set up certain measures, temporary ones, which are already on the move, and to consider in the actual areas, in the deserts, in those distant regions, in order to facilitate the access to medical services, to increase the attachment to prevention, and to extend these programs. And this we did in the general manner, looking into all countries, especially at Abar Errioxa, especially because their demand lies on the table. And we were open to any one of these measures, either mobile or otherwise, and they themselves are open. Then it's talking, looking for deals and agreeing. And that's all. I just want to ask you to reflect on all those signatures on the table to give a serious answer to what they won't be given today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u183	Thank you again, Mrs. President. I think it's clear that will is good in this enterprise, basically good. But it is true that he lacks study, that solid grounds are wanting to determine the best measure, to know at least. We have mentioned data and reasons, that there are many variables, many possibilities, which may be taken different measures. And that's what we're asking for. We don't refuse the measures you plan. At least we didn't say that and didn't even get it in the middle. We are open, but, as I have just said, they must have a foundation. Therefore, Roncal anderea, you asked what we do with the population of Eibar and Muskiz. And what is the solution?A bus that runs around the entire autonomous community? A bus? Well, maybe it is, but it's doing better. Maybe so, we don't say no. He claimed that we have only reached 81%. You don't think so? That's what you said! We would like that in this amendment, or in developing at least the amendment, or why the amendment, we could have explained participation ratios, contrasted with participation ratios of other communities, of other countries, etc., in order to give us a more realistic idea of what constitutes a percentage of 81% participation. But, well. As for the two years to do a study, Mrs. Roncal, it's that you yourself get into eggplants where they don't call you. That is, the study was already done in 2008; an entire legislature passed, and Mr Bengoa did not apply that amendment requiring him to install the milk bank at the Cruces Hospital. He didn't, he didn't. So, we're back to the same thing, and I don't want to expand on this subject, but, well, of course, what I haven't said is that 1,500 people, 1,500 signatures, are little. What I'm nuanced for, in line with what the representative of EH Bildu said, was that it was 1,500 signatures of some women from the Rioja Alavesa. She said they were women's, all women's, giving... What I said was that they were from some women, that I have all the respect of the world and in no way, at any time I meant to say that I felt little. Well, we understand that the problem here is that an issue that had to be clearly sanitary, health care, becomes or is intended to become a kind of weapon of political boldness in order to try to stir up according to which party. Once I heard him talk... Well, on the lines of what EH Bildu's representative also said, who spoke of the interests of some, and that the People's Party and the PNV had common interests, dark interests on this issue... , once I heard the director of a well-known newspaper in Basque speak of the ICUs, that there were ICUs (temporary units of interest), and lately it is becoming clearer that in the Health Commission we also have our own ICU, which applies little common sense and rigour in making its requests, its initiatives, and has much more propaganda competition. And the existence of that ICU is becoming more and more evident. In the budget, as Mrs Garrido said, you never put this discussion on the table. We'd like to know the meaning of the study. You plan to study it, but to decide whether to put a hospital in Lezaa or not. What is the meaning of it, then: and yet no study of the measures which ought to be placed in the Renaissance for this purpose? Zuek esaten duzue: "A bus, a mobile unit is needed, already, throughout the Autonomous Community". Instead, in Leza you have to do a study to see if you have to install a mammogram. If it doesn't make any sense! That is, in Leza yes, and in the Autonomous Community no, "we have to do it now, what we say". Guk behintzat ez dugu bat Egyptian poses the horrekin mend. And Mrs. Ubera used to say that in this medium which we have agreed with the Popular Party, the establishment of service is rejected. We didn't say that, we don't protect it. You're not going into medical decisions. So, what do we need to say, "Hey, we need a momographer or a mobile unit"? What professional said that? Who put that on the table? Who said that's the best way to deal with non-existent places like this? You say around the launch bus: "Comrades said that he had not enough quality on Monday, and you say at the same time that a bus like this must be sent to other places, where they are far away. You're constantly falling into contradictions. I mean, the bus is bad, but at the same time send a bus to places far away. It doesn't make any sense. What we say is: That bus could be the best chance, maybe. We have no objection to study, and, according to this, to take the necessary measures. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u184	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for the Euskal Socialists and the EH Collectors signed semi-correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 66; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 37; the whites, 0; abstaining; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u185	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the midway correction of the Euscal Popular and the Eucus Abertarian teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 66; the supporters of 37; the contrary, 16; the whites, 0; abstaining, 13.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-02.u186	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon.
