ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To appoint Representatives of the Basque Act in the Council of Memory, Collegation, and Human Rights Institute. Discipline and final resolution. In accordance with the article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each member of the legislature is within five minutes. Do you think any of the teams would like to join? According to Article 96.3.b of the Rule, the choice will be made by tickets. However, seeing other precedents and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. Does any member of the legislature object to follow this proposed procedure?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u1	Thank you, President. In my specific case, I would not vote for the four people on this proposal, but only for two of them. In particular, Mrs Cristina Ruiz and Mr Patxi Elola. So I wouldn't vote for assent, at least on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u2	Bear wave. Then, after this statement has been given, we will decide without a vote. So, Miss Amaia Artoo Romanate, Mr. Juanjo Aguirrela, Mr. Patxi Elola Azpeitia, and Ms. Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, we call members of the Council of the Society and Human Rights Institute, these two, the two whom you have mentioned, having one more vote. Second point on the subject list: 'The Moment, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Konörr Basque Group, the special employment plan of Araba. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs Garrido, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u3	Good morning, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Poptular parties have a proposition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u4	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again. As I was saying, another proposition was given by the Popular Party: I want you to fill the deal together with one mouth on the 12th of last November. Well, we've presented a motion to fulfill what we agreed to on this proposal. The following arrangement states: We asked you to run a special plan to promote Aran for a lot of places that are in a state of distress or weakness. Because of the reason that the historic land of Araba has remained outside the program. The aim of today's motion, as a result of the call made to the Employment and Social Policy Adviser, is to re-claim the agreement of 12 November, which was presented by the People's Group, the People's Parliamentary Group, with the aim of drawing up a special plan for the less-favoured areas of Álava. The background to this motion, which we are debating today in this House, is as follows. The Indartu programme, of which Álava has been left out, of which Álava has been left out twice in a row, is approved. The Indartu program is a program of subsidies to companies that make productive investment that generates employment, to boost areas of the Left Margin, Ría de Nervión and Oiartzualdea. This Indartu program was approved under the Order of 8 July 2015 of the Counsellor of Economic Development and Competitiveness. Program Honen Helburua, esan dezakegu inbertsio productiontiboa sustatzea zeala, enplegua Lortzeko. And this programme is framed in a regional aid map approved by the European Commission in May 2014 for the granting of regional incentives for the promotion of business investments. It can therefore be said that the objective of this Indartu plan is job creation. We are talking about an amount of EUR 8 million, which is non-reimbursable subsidies and can account for up to 10% of the investment. Knowledge of this fact motivated this group to present this non-law proposal, relating, as I said, to the impulse of employment generation in the less-favoured areas of Álava. This initiative was adopted unanimously on 12 November. Later – I continue with the background – we knew that 500,000 euros were incorporated into the budget process in Lanbide (so we are now talking about the Department of Employment and Social Policy), through Lanbide 500,000 euros were incorporated, that in the form of a nominative grant, a transfer to the Álava Foreign Ministry, that amount was intended to be used for the implementation of actions to promote employment. Although it is true that in an answer to a question put by this group in writing we were told that this transfer had not yet been implemented, in the sense that the corresponding actions under that subsidy had not materialized. We asked the adviser whether the special employment plan for Álava, agreed unanimously by this House, was being implemented, and we were referred to this item of EUR 500.00 and that this was fulfilling the mandate of the House. For us, of course, it is an insufficient amount, especially given that we had an item in the budgets, and so we defended it, for an amount of EUR 3 million, aimed at a special employment plan for the less-favoured areas of Álava. And not just EUR 3 million this year, but we were talking about a commitment credit of EUR 3 million for next year's budgets. And I say that this amount is absolutely insufficient, especially in the light of several circumstances. Taking into account the existing unemployment rate in some of the areas in Álava, such as Oion, Llodio, Agurain, Amurrio... We're talking about 25% Oion rates, we're talking about Llodio with 19.1%, we're talking about Agurain with 17.2%... These figures, of course, are quite high and require specific action, as we have already advocated during the debate on the corresponding initiatives, on the non-legislative proposal and also on the question to the adviser. But to this fact, that of these unemployment figures, I would like to add today, above all, the knowledge of this fact, of this bad news which is the announcement of an ERE by Reunited Tubes, which will have a very clear influence in the area of Ayala. I therefore believe that the debate on this motion today, in that sense, is very timely and very necessary. Today, therefore, we are presenting the initiative to implement the agreement of 12 November, and we want the discrimination that exists with the historical territory of Álava to be remedied once and for all. The historical territory of Álava for two consecutive times is going to stay out of the Indartu program. That is to say, the companies that are based in the territory of Alava are suffering a clear comparative aggravation in relation to the companies that are based in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa in relation to this program, considering that Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa under this program will reach 16 million euros (because they are twice, two years), and Álava, if we take into account this item with which this government seems to conform, only 500,000 euros. Of course, and bearing in mind the amendment we are submitting, it is absolutely insufficient. That is why we asked the councillor in the inquiry that we presented at the last full check whether it was the councillor's intention, apart from this subsidy to the Provincial Council of Álava of 500,000 euros, to implement the agreement. Because we understand that this agreement was not being implemented unanimously (also by the group that supports the government, the Basque Nationalist Party), and if it was being implemented, of course, we had a very different way of understanding how the agreements are being implemented, and it was being implemented in any case in an absolutely raquitous way, with that €500,000 compared to €16 million. The councillor's answer was that the agreement was being complied with, but we, seeing that response and seeing that it is necessary to remedy today this comparative aggravation, which is not corrected, is when we have again tabled the motion for debate in this House. We believe that the neglect with Araba is to be corrected, the dissemination, and, for the time being, this neglect, this dissecration, we did not correct, and therefore we introduced this motive. Of course, from the People's Group we cannot be satisfied, because we believe that the Basque Government, Lanbide, the department you preside over, Mr Councillor, have mechanisms to put in place, to arbitrate the necessary mechanisms to alleviate these difficult situations that are actually living in the municipalities of Álava with very high unemployment rates, and also with the situation that is also affecting companies located in the historical territory of Álava. At the time of the incipient economic recovery we believe that one cannot look elsewhere. We believe that it is time to consolidate economic recovery, and that of course it is time to promote competitiveness. We have tried to reach an agreement, especially as amendments had been tabled by three groups. EH Bildu has not tabled an amendment; we therefore believe that they will subscribe, as the spokesman will have the opportunity to explain here, the text of the motion, which calls for compliance with an agreement of this House. The Basque Nationalist Party, therefore, in its usual line: when it is asked for duties from the Government, and when it is also found that the mandates of the House have not been fulfilled, it "continues to be fulfilled". If we have tried with the Basque Nationalist Party to come to an approach, but in the sense of putting more duties on the government, and of course increasing that initial amount by 500,000 euros that we think is insufficient, but we have been told – that his spokesman, who is of course the qualified person to talk about it, will probably support the amendment, because he is going to support the Socialist Party's amendment. But I have nothing more to show here in this rostrum my surprise at the attitude of the Socialist Party, embodied in the text you have put forward in this Parliament. In the text put forward by the Socialist Party following this initiative which it supported in November, when it supported the elaboration by the Basque Government of a special employment plan for Álava, it now urges – surprisingly I say, because moreover, considering that we are in an autonomous chamber... – the Socialist Party urges the Foral Chamber of Álava to comply with those 500,000 euros, of that transfer of 500,000 euros. The truth is, I've been absolutely perplexed. Firstly, they are satisfied with 500,000 euros. Secondly, there is no need for them to urge the Foral de Álava, which I believe, moreover... I say that this initiative has also been approved in that chamber, calling for a special employment plan for Álava! And to be satisfied with the fact that the Álava Foral Diputation has launched, to execute those 500,000 euros that, in your opinion, in the response that it provided us, still had no news of the execution. I don't know if they'll have it today. That is to say, we are in the Chamber in which the Basque Government, which is the government with employment powers, that Lanbide has the transfer in terms of active employment policies; that in addition to the amendment that was introduced, which was at the request of the Socialist Party (it was 500,000 euros, when there was also an amendment of the People's Party, as I say, for an amount of 3 million euros, with a commitment credit for the following year of another 3 million euros), is incardinated in the Department of Employment and Social Policy! Therefore, it seems to me that the attitude and position that the Socialist Party is going to defend here today speaks for itself. I believe that the Socialist Party is co-governing with the Basque Nationalist Party, that the Basque Nationalist Party is co-governing with the Socialist Party in the Foral Deputation of Álava, because it is weakly favoring the interests of the citizens of Álava, when we see that the two parties simply conform, in the House where we had to urge the Basque Government to comply with the agreements, to develop, to extend the agreements already put in place, and when it is clearly seen that they are insufficient, they conform to urge the Foral Deputation of Álava (which, as I say, would be missing more!) to implement or implement or materialise, as we wish to call it, that €500,000 item. We have signed a compromise amendment, I say, after trying to make some approximation, but obviously it is impossible to make an approximation with a text that only urges the Foral Chamber of Álava to comply with something that is supposed to go its way. It would already be the top, that they are unable to take advantage, even if they are crumbs, of the crumbs of 500,000 euros that arrive in Álava and that for us are absolutely insufficient. That is why we have signed a compromise amendment with UPyD, which was the amending party that was obviously approaching what was proposed by the People's Party, to comply with the agreement of 12 November 2015 on the elaboration of a special employment plan for Álava. And, as with parliamentary agreements, this government usually has a slippery attitude, for we have included a new paragraph, which came in an amendment to add UPyD: to appear in the relevant committee within two months of the adoption of this initiative to report on the results, whether or not the plan is going to be implemented. So, this is the deal. I believe that this agreement is in line with the agreement already signed unanimously in this House, and we again deeply regret the attitude of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which are going to go hand in hand with the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, but which is certainly not in line with the agreement previously signed, and which is therefore not in the defence of Álava's interests. Therefore, I believe that the Alaves have to be very aware today that the Socialist Party is co-governing with the Nationalist Party in the Chamber serves to neutralize the Socialist Party in the Basque Parliament, because then it cannot defend the interests of the Alaves as it should. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u7	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, lehendakari. Well, I don't want to start the intervention of our group today without making a recognition and an expression of solidarity and commitment with the workers of ArcelorMittal de Sestao, Zumárraga... and all those auxiliary companies that are currently in a difficult situation. I undertake that it is extended to the rest of the House. Well, with regard to what you have brought to us on this point, Mrs Garrido, I would like to say that, in the light of your initiative, it was at first relatively easy for me to accept the text, because I am asking for an agreement that has been adopted in this House, because it does not seem to be more difficult, that is to say, to ratify what has already been said. But, of course, politics is a sinuous activity many times, and we must try to locate, beyond the appearances, intentionality and purposes of those who bring seemingly easy and simple initiatives to subscribe, as it is that which brings us. Because you, Mrs Garrido, appeal to the agreement of 12 November, which effectively raised the need to carry out a number of employment plans in the less-favoured areas of Álava and its worst-hit regions. Well, that agreement, that proposal that was adopted at the time, is already being implemented, it is already being implemented, and that is why what our amendment proposes is that all that planning, all that work that has been carried out on employment plans, is being completed or is about to be completed, and what would remain to be done is its implementation. That is why we propose that it be implemented in the next six months. You bring us a proposal which seeks to ratify what has already been approved in this House and to which the Socialists have given rise, as you have acknowledged, by means of that budget amendment of half a million euros. As all this is known to you, it seemed to us that mere ratification was short, and socialists always have somewhat more ambitious pretensions than complying with the status quo, and in this case we have set deadlines. Because what we want to think is that the proponent's intention is not to keep saying what we said half a year ago. We want to think that, after six months, it is a question of transferring the parliamentary mandate to concrete actions. And in that we are, doing what has not been done for another four years when the Álava Diputation was headed by you, Mrs. Garrido. And this is the objective of our proposal, which calls for the necessary institutional coordination; that it costs us that it is taking place, but not today, but since it took possession of the present Parliament, since our Member of Parliament for Promotion and Employment, Mrs Cristina González, assumed the portfolio, which, in permanent dialogue with the municipalities, and through funding and technical support, carries out the various plans with which it is working. And it will be realized, in the end, in hours or in the next days. And work is being done in the less-favoured areas of Álava, which were less-favoured areas also when you were ruling. I mean, the macroeconomic indicators you're referring to aren't from today, they come from time ago, when you had responsibility. This coordination began in September in order to make the most of the resources devoted to the employment of all the public administrations, and in the budget negotiation, which you have criticized, while other groups were dealing with accusing us of making departures to benefit the socialists, it turns out that we were making departures that benefited the citizens: those of Oion, those of Amurrio, those of Llodio, areas truly punished by high unemployment and that have been neglected, as I have said before. So the training plans already being implemented, in addition to the programme of local employment plans, which are taking place (by the way, also on a socialist initiative in this House), are now being added to these new programmes under preparation. We say new because so far the Foral Diputación de Álava had two job calls, one of 500,000 euros of training, which was also not aimed at employability, and another of 100,000 euros for investments in equipment of training centers. Summons that had not been changed throughout the previous legislature, despite the need to make all the necessary efforts to make the money dedicated to training really work for employability. He never made any assessment of the results achieved with these calls. The Foral de Álava, under the mandate of the PP, did not seek funding from other institutions, such as the European Union, and it was a change of sign for the government, for a socialist to take over the Employment Promotion and in September two youth employment programmes were developed to present them to the European Union's Youth Employment Call. It sounds strange to say, but this is the first time that the Alavese parliament has presented a project in a forum where funds are reserved for those who demand them to promote employment. There was nothing more to be said, and the People's Party Government did not do so. Without even a year having passed since the direction of the outside government changed, the budget devoted to the employment of the Member State has increased by 31%, but if we add the EUR 500 000 which the Socialists have expressly used for disadvantaged areas through the Euskadi Budgets, the resources which the Member State will manage are increased by 120 %. In short, Mrs Garrido, the reason why we have tabled our amendment and have not tried to seek agreement is because we understood that your proposal seeks to be a protagonist on the part of your group that you did not exercise when they had political responsibilities. And, indeed, 500,000 euros will not be enough to meet all the needs of the less-favoured areas of Álava, but it is certainly far more than 500,000 non-law proposals that lead us nowhere. What is needed are agreements; what is needed is, in fact, to achieve, within what is possible (that is politics, the art of what is possible), to achieve the necessary agreements to promote those actions that are necessary. That it will not be enough, that it will be necessary, in the end, to provide more funds and to continue in the effort without ceasing in it? Of course I do, but, of course, this is already something. And, as I say to you, the Álava Chamber, to which we urge you, is because it is indeed the one which, in collaboration with Lanbide, has launched the planning of those programmes, of those employment plans which, according to the news, are concluded or about to conclude, so that now it would only be necessary to obtain, in due course, the appropriate transfers. That is why we proposed a period of six months, so that those plans could be carried out at that time. I think I have explained that the reasons are not that we are against subsidising or financing disadvantaged areas. What we are against is, in the end, that opportunism; that when you have responsibilities of government you do not carry out all these activities and all these commitments and budgetary efforts that you demand, but when you are in opposition then you do. That seems to us to be somewhat advantageous and opportunistic, and that is why we have not sought agreement with you today, Mrs Garrido. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u8	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u9	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you, Counselor, Counselor. The initiative put forward by the Group of the European People's Party seemed to us in principle to us. It was simple, it was short, and it proposed something as simple as the Government fulfilling a parliamentary mandate adopted unanimously not too long ago by this House. What we did through our addendum amendment was to try to complement this original initiative put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, also in the light of the explanations given by the adviser during the last full monitoring session. And, therefore, what we did was to propose an addendum amendment to urge the Basque Government to appear in the relevant committee within a maximum of one month of the adoption of this initiative to explain the results obtained from the implementation of the agreement adopted by the House on 12 November 2015 concerning the elaboration of a special employment plan for the less-favoured areas of Álava, in the event that it has actually been implemented, we added. And that is because the adviser in that full control insisted that this plenary agreement had actually been fulfilled by the Government, and therefore what we have come to say is that, if it has actually been fulfilled, the least it has to do is to present the results of those actions, of those actions, in the relevant committee. And we think that this agreement has not been fulfilled, but the counselor insisted that this agreement has already been fulfilled. Well, let us urge the Government to appear on the relevant committee to explain what has been done, and, more importantly, what have been the results of those actions led by this Government, if indeed those disadvantaged areas that we are all concerned about are in a better situation or are still basically as they were a few months ago. And look at the future too, see what can be done for the future so that these disadvantaged areas are in a better position in the coming months. Because, as has been pointed out, the fact is that these disadvantaged areas have been underprivileged for too long, and therefore the responsibility for this is not only of this Government, but certainly of the previous Government, and of those who have ruled even Spain, and those who have ruled the Foral Diputación de Álava itself. The responsibility, therefore, logically lies with all those governments and all those political parties that have maintained or supported these different governments. Indeed, we have reached a compromise agreement that what it does is a summary between the original initiative and the UPyD add-on amendment. Having said that, I want to say something additional. I am not comfortable with certain victimist speeches that are usually made in this House in relation to certain historical territories of our autonomous community. I don't think this is good. It is not good to face some territories with others; it is not good to face comparative grievances; it is not good to give more importance to these supposed differences between some territories and others than to the very situation in which certain municipalities of Euskadi, be they of Álava, Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa, are located. I don't think this is good. I don't like it, I don't feel comfortable when someone brings an initiative and, in view of his intervention, we conclude that he has more interest in trying to articulate a speech, let's say, electoralist than in articulating a social discourse that tries to solve the real problems of citizenship. And certainly, observing the intervention of Mrs Laura Garrido during that full of control, it draws the attention of this parliamentarian to the insistence on drawing attention to the discrimination that Álava suffers. I don't think this is good. On several occasions, he points that out. Ms. Garrido said in that inquiry that Álava had been discriminated against in relation to Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, said that it was a question of remedying the comparative aggravation that existed with the historical territory of Álava, on several occasions she pointed out that what arrived in Álava were pure crumbs, she added that there was therefore a comparative aggravation that was not being remedied. "You have been unable," he says, "to remedy that imbalance and comparative aggravation that exists in the Indartu program with the historical territory of Álava." I do not like this speech, I do not think it is positive, and I do not think it contributes anything, so that an initiative which was initially supposed to be social, of concern for certain disadvantaged areas, of concern for the situation in which thousands of citizens find themselves, in this case Alavesis, finally becomes something else. It becomes an initiative that seems to be more electoralist, more of a comparative aggravation between territories, more for the purpose of facing different historical territories than of seeking the solution of certain problems. What's important in this case? As there are certain municipalities, also in Álava, such as Oion, Llodio or Agurain, which actually have very high unemployment rates, close to 20% or, in the case of Oion, almost 25%. This is what needs to be remedied. Therefore, in conclusion, I believe that when such an initiative is presented, we need to talk more about concrete measures to remedy these problems, to solve these problems of these citizens living in these localities, than to try to foster territorial confrontation. I don't like it when it comes to fostering confrontations between historical territories. I don't think it's good for anyone. I think it hurts everyone. Having said that, we have obviously signed that transactional. We think it's reasonable. It is a matter for the Government to comply with this parliamentary agreement, it is a matter of resolving the problems faced by these municipalities, it is a matter of ensuring that, if that parliamentary agreement has actually been complied with, the relevant councillor passes through the committee and explains not only what has been done, but above all what has been achieved. Finally, in conclusion and in the end, we are paying attention to the citizens with fewer resources, we are paying attention to the areas of Euskadi in the worst economic situation and with higher levels of unemployment. Let's not face some territory with others. It does not interest anyone, it is not good for anyone, and I think it harms the whole of Euskadi. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Since the eubertist has withdrawn his amendment, we will go round the groups that have no corrections. Since EH Collector, Mr. Łódź de Munin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u11	Good morning. I've tried, but I don't see any clear purpose in this discussion, by seeing the original proposition and the interpellation on the basis of this motion. The proposed team seems to have no clear idea of the forces. That could be a possibility. And it is another chance that the Arabs should wish to disturb the people of Araba after the proposal, in order to make the Arabs feel the second-rate people. This option would not be so strange as to see who proposes the initiative. The November debate took place in the appropriate terms. A comprehensive agreement was reached on commitments that were required from the Arab Councils. There was a need for the Government to be involved in the grave situation in which Araba was in. Obviously, it was not the panacea, but at least it marked a direction, fixed the responsible ones, and set clear lines of work, which is not a small thing. It is not the first time that presents itself in this Chamber to lose any initiative, or rather to lose it, which presents itself in order to break the agreement that preceded a particular subject. Thus a particular subject is intended to lead to the fire of the interests of a group. In this sense, we understand the PSE initiative. The PSE reduces with its initiative the demands that were made previously, removes responsibility for this government, and places the focus on the General Councils of Araba, the municipalities and Lanbide. We know that it is Lanbide who should implement the employment plans, and it is up to this government, although – and I believe that no one here can deny it – to limit the problem to an employment problem not only is to cheat, but it is to deceive the Albanians, no matter how much money is set in a game. The affair of the Arabs is only a branch of a problem in the whole EAE, that is to say, we have the matter all over the country. The Araba problem is a widespread problem in the CAPV: it is a problem of obvious deindustrialization, it is a problem of lack of industrial projects that renew the old industrial fabric laves, it is a clear lack of institutional involvement for decades. All this is the result of mediocre policies, which have been impoverishing working conditions, wages and the quality of jobs, while offering public aid to businesses and entrepreneurs who have relocated their businesses or intend to do so. Araba is a herriad differentiated from the rest; demographic reality makes it perhaps more difficult to act compared to other herriads. Here in Gasteiz a very high percentage of the population and of the industrial and economic activity is concentrated. The rest of Araba, except in very specific cases, consists of small rural centres that have historically been developing their economic activity within the primary sector. However, we also counted (and I say we counted) medium population nuclei with a certain degree of industrialization. What has been Araba's problem for decades? Quite simply: while the industrial model was becoming obsolete and very concentrated in a few companies, the public administration, in the hands of PP and PNV, was dedicated to financing and supporting a very specific and deficient sector, logistics. In a few decades, Araba had a multitude of logistics centres. Many of the political representatives of the PNV and PP sold that the local development and the gangs would only come through these centers, which would generate a multitude of jobs, but, as is often the case in the Alavesa policy, it was a great lie, as was the plan of Maroto in Betoño, it was Epsilon, it was Hiriko, it will be the elite university that arises for Gasteiz, and it is all the projects that intend to favor only a few using public money. The reality in the case of the industrial centers was other than the one you sold us. The centres that were built helped the perpetration of large urban balls, by converting land for agricultural use into industrial land. In other cases they helped some municipalities to get mortgaged to the very end thanks to the sale of land, another ball that is now being paid by neighbors and neighbors. And, on the other hand, that model helped four builders to keep making a lot of money. The consequences of this industrial model in Araba, which you promoted, were evident: while on the one hand industrial companies were absorbed by multinationals and we lost local control over them, the Administration enhanced the construction of logistics and industrial centers, but without industries. Thus, and as an example, we can say that in less than a hundred kilometers we have the park of Asparrena, Agurain, Dulantzi, Uritiasolo, Betaño, Gamarra, Jundiz and Arasur among others, most half empty today, or completely empty. On this axis there is one of the highest unemployment rates of all Arabs: logistics not only did it not create jobs, but it deplete the existing one. But with her some made a lot of money. The pockets that served some for money, and that's the political failure of all of you. "Y es es fracasso pollico, el de todos credites." On the other hand, they tell us about employment plans so as not to cover any jobs. The problem lies on the supply side, but in that sense this Government is lost: it does not know the sectors in which it must invest, nor absolutely nothing. Training as a solution, people trained without the possibility of finding a job, because they are not created. What does all this have to do with anything? For of course to local development, to areas such as Aiaraldea, which are being deindustrialized by relocations (e.g., Reunited Tubes); areas such as Lautada, deindustrialized, with hundreds of empty industrial pavilions and without the possibility of finding a job for neighbors and neighbors; areas such as Rioja Alavesa, in which the specialization and dependence of the wine sector or derivatives is very high due to the lack of employment alternatives. All this, what does it cause? The further deterioration of working conditions, higher unemployment rates, depopulation of the territory, differences between gangs and others, and a feeling of unprotected citizenship due to the inaction of the public administration. These are the consequences of very bad industrial policies on our herriad, of the lack of a strategic industrial plan by the Government of Gasteiz. A lack of political leadership that put the interests of us, the Alaves, above the interests of the builders or the multinationals in turn. And the most dangerous of all: the total dependence, for employment, of five large companies throughout the territory. They have brought us to a total gulf with their policies of the past, and today, instead of providing security, of maintaining what has been adopted here in this Parliament, they are changing the playing field, which creates uncertainty, lack of hope in the future, and, above all, gives me a feeling of unreality and of absolute waste of time. We should be looking for solutions, and not adopting empty words that do not solve or say anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, chief. Congressmen, good morning to all. Firstly, I would like to show our solidarity with the Basque steel sector, which is having a very bad time, to a greater extent because of the dumping of Chinese steel and the price of energy. In November, the Basque Law asked him to create a special program which would protect him from creating employment in the weak suburbs, in the union with the old Forum of Arabe, especially with the development of the quadrants and municipal townships that would be specially connected. And they do the same. The Basque Government and the Foral Diputación de Álava work for the economic revival of Álava and its industry on an ongoing basis, and specifically with the municipalities of the less-favoured areas of Álava, such as Oion, Amurrio and Llodio. Through this special program, the five public administrations together, working together, here also with work, with patience and with tesón, to counter the systematic attack of the People's Party against the economic revival of Álava and its industry, especially in the last four years, when it has been ruling in Spain with an absolute majority. As Councillor Toña told him, only through Lanbide in Álava there are already more than three and a half million invested in employment plans and local plans in force until May of this year, which are still those of 2015, with more than 750,000 euros, apart from this concrete half-million euros item for this special programme for the less-favoured areas of Álava, that the People's Party, with an absolute majority in the Government of Spain, took care not to be in the Regional Aid Map 2014-2020 of Europe. Thus, despite the People's Party, the recovery of the industrial sector in Euskadi and Álava is a step-by-step fact, with recent actions, such as the case of the investment fund to create productive activity in Álava and Euskadi, or the Basque Internationalization Consortium created to manage the catalogue of aid programmes for the internationalization of enterprises at all stages through a new governance model in which seven institutions work together: the Basque Government, the three Chambers of Commerce and the three Chambers of Commerce. I mean, lan eta lan, elkarrekin instituzio guztiak, Popular Taldetik izan ezik. Because if we do a little memory in Álava, since the end of 2011, coinciding with the absolute majority of the People's Party in the Spanish government, the people of Álava have been systematically attacked by the People's Party against the economic revival of Álava and its industry. A continuous attack, with premeditation and lightness. This translates into the logistics area of Álava, one of our strengths, which, despite having an airport with the longest and most protected track in the north, with 3,600 meters, with the most advanced elements to operate in very low visibility situations, combined with its ability to be open 24 hours a day, receiving, even in 2009 data, a flight diverted from other airports every two days, and converted, with its border inspection post, to one of the most important cargo airports in the Spanish State (in 2008 it was the third cargo airport of the State), with these limbs, the airport of Foronda becomes night to morning object of harassment and overthrow, since 2012, by the People's Party, ruling in Spain with absolute majority. And they often say that an image is worth more than a hundred words, and I'm going to show you a few pictures. (Argazki batzuk erakutsi ditu) Through the Ministry of Development it is reduced from twenty-four hours to twelve hours. It is cancelled in Europe the border inspection post, the customs for perishables, and therefore all the burden that has to do with animals and perishables disappears. The airport of Zaragoza is strengthened...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u14	Silence, please... Ms. Lopez de Ocarariz, it's not your tour. Silence! Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u15	... on the basis of goods of the north zone; of 45,000 tons... We are talking about lavish economic activity and development, the one with which you from time to time put on the costume and we have here a few minutes of lavish support, but the rest of the other three hundred sixty-four days is what you don't have. And now you have to listen. Zaragoza airport is strengthened as a freight base in the north: from 45,000 tons in 2012 it has increased in 2016 to 85,000 tons. The Burgos airport and Logroño airport are doubled by opening hours, and given 200,000 square meters of ground for Burgos development. Do you also remember this image? As a result, Foronda had already lost three out of ten operations by the end of 2012, just for not opening the twenty-four hours. And, if we had to make things clearer, in 2013, to clearly certify his bet of harassment and toppling of Álava and the Foronda airport, Aena prohibits the ACB basketball teams from landing in Foronda for the celebration of the King's Cup, which is held in Vitoria. This is another very clear picture: for the 2013 King's Cup basketball event, even the teams themselves are banned from landing at Foronda Airport. How are we in Foronda today, in 2016? How are we in Foronda today, in 2016? For we see it, maintaining ourselves as the fourth cargo airport of the State, despite the People's Party, but with half the cargo that the third, which is Zaragoza; with only twelve hours, without the customs of perishers, which is the border inspection point. Do you remember? Now, all the fish in South Africa, do you know where it's flying to? Zaragoza. And 90% of all the load depends on a single parcel company, DHL, which even a sad enlargement costs more than a year to get it. So, that's right, promises, and photo, and Popular Party solution when you hang the "Twenty-four hours" costume, that's it, but what we're struggling with is that this costume only takes twenty-four hours, as the photo says, and in another 359 days it's you like Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde for Alava. Horregatik, lan eta lan elkarrekin instituzio guztiak, Popular Taldetik izan ezik. In the same line of systematic attack against the economic revival of Álava and its industry by the People's Party, ruling in Spain with an absolute majority, in 2013 the Guidelines on regional State aid 2014-2020 were approved in Europe by the Spanish State. And what are these guidelines? These rules of measurement..., so that these regions can access these aids, which represent 10% more investment so that they are not considered State aid, the rule of measurement that you choose as state government, at that meeting in 2013, requires that there be a continuity of 50,000 inhabitants in disadvantaged areas. Any praise that is prized knows that if the rule of measuring that you have chosen is that of 50,000 inhabitants there is no way to enter that rule. There's no way in, if it's limited by that historic territory. However, if they had allowed continuity with another historical territory, if they had simply changed the scale of measurement in that year 2013, right now the entire Ayala Valley could be united with Basauri and have a disadvantaged area there, and access those aids. Therefore, Álava is not going to stay this past year and next year, no: she is going to stay every six years she has that regional aid map. So, when the next year, in 2014, this regional aid map is published, what are we going to expect? That Álava stays out, too. But do you not know who is not left out of this map of regional aid with this scale, with this map that the Government of Spain, led by the People's Party...? Do you know who's not staying out? Toledo and Castile-La Mancha. Ask Aernnova why he's going to Toledo! Ask him why he creates 145 jobs here to brush them! Because you have access to that regional aid map, to that measurement rule that you chose in 2013 and where in 2014, when that regional aid map 2014-2020 is approved, then, logically, Álava is not there. But it's always everyone else's fault. That's why all the institutions of work and work together except the populars. In short, punishment, punishment and punishment for the economic revival of Alava and our industry. And the People's Party continues with its support costume (today we have a few more minutes of glory with this one, to make that twenty-four hour summary they will get throughout 2016), but we will continue to counter always with more work, work and work, because there is no other way to get it. That's why all the institutions of work and work together except the populars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u16	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. In answer, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u17	Thank you, Madam President. I will focus on Mr Itxaso, and then I will stop at Mr Carro, whose speech has left much to be desired. And it seems a lie that he's a cheerleader and connoisseur of the Alavesa reality. And precisely because of that status of cheerleader, I believe that throwing balls out, when you are in an institution, the Basque Government, which has many competences, not only in employment, but also in Foronda... It will be asked why the situation of Foronda came to its conclusion, what has been the stake of the PNV every year, from the Alavese outlaw parliament and from the Basque Government, by Foronda, why Foronda became an airport about to close, and a viability plan at Foronda airport had to be enabled and put in place to correct imbalances, to correct the lack of activity, to correct the oversize of the staff. Yeah, yeah. But in the meantime, the Basque Government in all budgets, every year, zero for Foronda. So, don't come here and give me lessons from Foronda, because, look, if you've been able to do something, you could have gotten some hard for the Foronda airport from the Basque government all these years in the budgets, and you haven't been able to get anything. And after the People's Party governs the government of Spain... That, yes, yes, you also ruled with the Zapatero Government, co-governed with the Zapatero Government; therefore, you will also have some responsibility in the economic situation inherited by the People's Party, yes, by approving all those budgets, all those budgets that increased the deficit, which increased unemployment, which directly affected the competitiveness of the Basque economy. That's what the Basque Nationalist Party did at the hands of the Socialist Party, as Zapatero's bra. But then for Foronda should not worry too much! That is true, then, when Patxi López arrived and there was a great deal of haste, before, in the transfer of active employment policies, you too have already taken care of putting some of you on the line and delaying the transfer of active employment policies. That is the Basque agenda and that is to look for the interests of the Basques, who usually do the PNV when the moment of truth comes. Therefore, of Forunda lessons the just, because following the efficiency plan put in place is when the situation of Forunda has been reversed and it has allowed to improve the figures of Forunda, especially in a very clear way after the year 2014. Therefore, look a little bit, review the figures, and above all, make a self-criticism of the bet that the Basque Nationalist Party has made over all these years, that it has had many, because it has been many in power, for having put even a hard one at the Foronda airport. The Socialist Party had to tell you, although then I'll go back to Mr Carro... Of course you, Mr Itxaso, have had to make quite a few balances here today in this rostrum, and certainly balances, but they have certainly led you to lose coherence. I have your intervention from here, and I was clearly saying, when we discussed the non-law proposal, that Álava was being discriminated against in respect of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and therefore that a special employment plan was needed for Álava. You settle with that amount of 500,000 euros. Of course, we are not; we are more ambitious. We were already more ambitious than you in the budget itself, and that we did not govern in the Chamber, but I want to say that we were more generous so that a socialist and PNV government in the Foral Chamber of Álava could have money in these budgets for an amount of 3 million euros, with a commitment credit the following year of another 3 million euros, precisely to alleviate the unemployment situation in the less-favoured areas of Álava, which, as you know, have the unemployment rates they have. It is not lauded, but I imagine you will also have colleagues to tell you in a comprehensive way what the situation of Alava is, and, of course, a plan of these characteristics was necessary. It seems to me that you have had to do a pirouette here today to justify the unjustifiable, and, of course, I say again to the Albanians, it is very bad for us to co-governance the Socialist Party with the Basque Nationalist Party in the Foral Diputation of Álava, because we have to come to terms with the agreements it signed at the time, which were good for Álava, as was the elaboration of that special employment plan for Álava. And look also, that you have come to recognize me – and I'm just going to stick to the conversations..., to what you said in this rostrum, because you already know that I don't like bringing corridor conversations to the rostrum of the Basque Parliament, but you said right now, today, that you were about to approve the original initiative. Of course, for the sake of consistency, that's what they should have said. But, following the call of the foreign parliament, you claudiate, neutralize them in the Basque Parliament, which is where you really have to make opposition, and therefore become the new cane of the Basque Nationalist Party, which we have seen so many times and which so few results and fruits have been given for the historical territory of Álava. We continue to understand that there is a reality to be overcome, the reality of the Indartu programme, which clearly discriminates against the historical territory of Álava, to the companies located in the territory of Alava. We're talking 16 million...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u18	Finish up, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u19	... Mr Carro also made it very clear that this comparative aggravation had to be remedied in Álava, compared to EUR 500 000, in that absolutely rachitic amendment which the Socialist Party has achieved, which is absolutely insufficient. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u20	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u21	Certainly, Mrs Garrido, there is nothing like being from the territory to know your problem. And in this case it happens that I am not from the territory, but you must thank him, because if I had been, I would have had to make an intervention as Mr López de Munain or Mr Carro did. I mean, if in the first intervention I say that initially, in a superficial reading of his initiative, because, finally, because of that which laziness is almost always ahead, because one says "Well, then, finally, an agreement..., we will ratify it", but I said "No, that when you make a reading, let's say, a little deeper, one warns the intentions and the purposes". In other words, initiatives are not so innocent. "Hey, so ratify the previous agreement." Well, he wasn't so innocent, actually. You were trying, at this time and with this matter, to appear as valours of the cause of Alava, of your disadvantaged areas. Okay, okay, but what we came to say to him is, "Well, anyway, at good times green sleeves!". Because all that rosary of calamities that you pose, when did it come from? And how is it possible that this happens with a People's Party that has ruled with an absolute majority in Spain and that has taumaturgical powers to solve all these problems? Mr López de Munain, we are not exonerating the Government from any responsibility. The agreements that have been adopted link it, and precisely in the implementation of these plans the Álava Diputación, in conjunction with the municipalities and Lanbide... Lanbide, after all, does not cease to be a government, and then these plans have been implemented in collaboration between these institutional areas: Lanbide, municipalities and outlaws, which handle this whole issue. And we rejected the initiative, Mrs Garrido, because you propose that a special plan be carried out in the less-favoured areas, and what I have come to say to you is "No, those plans are done, are concluded or about to be concluded, but come on, they will certainly be presented in a few days or later". And that after its presentation will logically come the need for transfer of funds to implement it, and that is where we give that margin, that six-month period to do so. As soon as the agreement of 12 November, like all the agreements of this House, remains in force. That is, what is established here today or what arises from here does not disturb or disturb other previous agreements. Those agreements with which we join at the time remain in force. Otherwise, I have not heard Mr Carro say that he is going to withdraw his amendment. I've heard you say that. And we have no compromise; therefore, in principle we have not reached a concrete agreement either. I do not know whether that is the intention or not, but in any case we, when we have to censor and reproach the Government, do so without any difficulty or mental reserve. What happens is that in this case your initiative, Mrs Garrido, seemed to us to have a component of opportunism sufficient to stop it, stop it and make, logically, the corresponding criticism. If other groups join that criticism, in the case of the Nationalist Party, and I see that Euskal Herria Bildu too, it is because, indeed, even if we do not certainly agree with the final approaches, we are sharing more or less a diagnosis of what has been the role of his party, both in the Spanish Government and in the Government of the Álava Diputación, where the resources used for these menus were clearly inferior.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u22	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Miss... ? From EH Collect... ? Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u23	Yeah. I said earlier, and I think it is one of the keys, beyond where this debate is going, and bearing in mind that today we have Mr Toña's presence, I miss the presence of another of the advisers, which in this case would be important, since at least from Euskal Herria Bildu we understand that employment or the promotion of employment has to be linked to industry and the promotion of industry. In that case, we miss Mrs Tapia quite a bit. What do we say, or what have we tried to transfer or transmit to this Government with all my previous intervention? In other words, Álava lives in a situation in which the industry, which is the manufacturing industry, has been losing importance. And he's been losing importance for a number of reasons. On the one hand, because of the closure of many of these companies, closure of small companies too, as could be workshops that were dedicated to supplying these large companies, and especially because there is a clear lack of control over these companies for a fundamental reason: because the majority are already multinationals today. Multinationals who will then negotiate with the institutions and do so in a very clear way, which is "You give me grants, or I leave the territory." Araba has a total economic dependence, surely, on Gasteiz's industrial activity, but it is even more serious: Gasteiz has a total dependence on two companies. If those two companies closed, Gasteiz's industrial fabric would go to the garage, which would lead to the entire Araba going to the garage. And that is why we have, I believe, made a positive intervention. It is not just about employment, it is not about investing in training: it is about creating employment. And the only way we and we have understood, and so we have put it into value at the General Councils of Araba, is through a series of parties that we have negotiated directly with you, with your party, and we have negotiated it as follows. On the one hand, in the formation in the gangs – and that I share with Mr.Itxaso, who is important, and even depends on the Department of Cristina González – a game of 150,000 euros, which appears in the budgets thanks to Euskal Herria Bildu. And two more important items, going to Industry, which is the industrial reactivation of the gangs (two items: one of 350,000 euros and another of 50,000 euros), to set in motion that the gangs, the municipalities and the areas that are most punished can reactivate their industrial capacity. Because that's where we and we understand the key. In the meantime, we will continue, as I have sadly seen Mr Carro doing, to value logistics, the only thing that has led us to a limit situation, which is to bet only on logistics. Well, let's get on with it. And when it comes to Foronda, obviously Foronda is a value to take into account, but it is also the dry port of Pancorbo! And what happened there? Because, of course, the responsibilities here, for Madrid all, and that too I share with you, but your responsibilities in the case of Araba... You also have your responsibilities, eh!, and Araba's industrial model is not the one without your participation. With this we will put all and all the responsibility we have, and assume that this Government also has a responsibility, but not only with employment: it has it with re-industrialisation, and it also has it with the re-industrialisation of Araba. We cannot have more industrial pavilions closed without any activity; we cannot have an agency, which is the Agency for the Development of Álava, which is dedicated to buying and selling land, to making pavilions. We have to put it at the service of reindustrialisation. And that's what Euskal Herria Bildu is negotiating with you today in the Álava Chamber. That's what we're talking about. We are making a positive proposal. Alava can't stay, it shouldn't run out of industry. We can not only bet on training; we must bet on opening up industry. And in that this government has much to say, because, either it already makes a strategic plan and points out the specific sectors of industry in which we must advance as a people and invest as a people, or our future is very black. Because Álava depends only on very few companies, and most of them multinationals. Both the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party said two things that have attracted much attention to me. The People's Party said "Incipient economic recovery." For whom? For you, of course, as always. But you haven't noticed the crisis either. And the Basque Nationalist Party said something else: "... industrial recovery in Alava is evident" And how did you defend it? Based on a new governance model. What does this mean?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What are you talking about? Concrete things: we need industries, we need no closures, and we need new sectors of activity. But the responsibility lies with this Government, with the legislature, with the municipalities and with all Arab institutions. But you take over yours, too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. We have withdrawn our amendment, and we will vote in favour of the Socialist Party. And the reality is that's it! In the last four years, which has coincided with the fact that they have been ruling with an absolute majority in the Spanish Government, what we have had has been real, real facts which they have shown is that it is a systematic attack on the economic revival of Álava. And they've loaded the Foronda airport. And with all the map of regional aid, which we have left the Alaves without that possibility of that 10% more aid, so that they are not considered state aid, that from 2014 to 2020 we are going to be the Alaves with that map of regional aid, it turns out that it was you who approved the rule that we chose to measure that rule, and with those 50,000 inhabitants of the disadvantaged area there is no way. Any sapper knows there's no way to find, within the historical territory, 50,000 Alavese together in underprivileged areas. However, to nothing that would have changed the measurement rule, it is likely that Toledo would have also entered, as we have already commented, but at least Álava would have also entered. And in this way, however, as you chose in 2013 from the Government of Spain, with an absolute majority, and approved in Europe the guidelines for that regional aid map to come out in 2014-2020, which the Albanians have left behind, you have chosen a scale and a rule of measurement in which what does enter is Toledo, and Toledo make sure that well. Ask Aernnova, if you don't know if Toledo and Castilla-La Mancha have entered, that quickly a company is taking there to create 145 posts and takes them away from here from Álava. In Álava there will be a reduction of 145 posts. And everything for what? By a measurement rule that you have chosen since 2013. And we've stayed out of that regional aid map. And I could also talk to you about internalization. Of course, Álava needs more industry and also more internationalization! And in that consortium with all the administrations together, the three parliaments, the Basque Government, the three chambers of commerce, so you have to work, and in that line we will be with you, if you too are willing to push. But, as I told you, in those international aid you also wanted the photo, and the photo you had already made clear in September to tell the pioneer company in internationalization here in Álava, Zayer..., you have already taken care of telling them exactly what roles a company has to present to sell a machine abroad, and it is you who tell them what documentation they have to carry, who then catch them with more than a hundred cops and take them there as if they were terrorists. Why? Because it looks like that machine is then sold to third countries. And that's why I have to send a hundred cops, like they're terrorists? No, no, What did they want? The picture! They wanted the photo, like the ACB photo, forbidding Aena to land here in 2013 to play the King's Basketball Cup. And everything for what? Because they have, I don't know, they have that systematic attack. From time to time we have a few minutes of glory in which you re-place the "twenty-four hours" costume, and I'm sure that with these minutes you'll be adding those twenty-four hours throughout the year, and at last you'll have those twenty-four hours, but there's three hundred and sixty-four days left of the year! Let the Alaves also want those three hundred sixty-four days a year! That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the half-correction signed by Euscala Populars and Misto-UPyD. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 31; the opposites, 42; white, 0; abscessation, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u27	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full correction in which the Basque Socialist has introduced the team. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 42; the opposites 31; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u28	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the EHGG of the Bethlehem Rocks, concerning the measures which must be directed against the general gravity of the work. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Arrido has her word to introduce and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u29	Good morning, everyone. At the conference in total 4th of March, the President was interjected, and the head of the Toñans replied to the measures which were to be taken against the general dignity of work. The answer we received wasn't what we expected, and seeing that the public policies that the fun is not enough for us, and that the situation demands other decisions, we introduced the motion. While the economic situation is being repeated, the preparation and employment are, rather, the principal problems and concerns of the eucalyptic society, and it is no wonder. We wake up almost every day with a company lock, with a picture or a complaint that won't end the month even if it's work. "EH Collect wants to answer it today with this specific proposition and other initiations introduced to it." It's a serious situation, and I think we all know that. The amount of unemployment remains very high. As we mentioned last time, there are a lot of families that are all unemployed. The rate of unemployment among the young is very high, around 40%, and there are a lot of unemployed who don't even pay the wages of unemployment. But that's the photograph of the unemployed. The state of those who have labour is not much better: the Prefect is becoming more and more numerous, the provisional is of 25 percent, but in Europe 10 points are less provisional. 93% of the last few months' contracts have been temporary, and nearly half a month hasn't reached. Precity is still greater in women, and it is obvious in the public sector: 35% of the women have a temporary contract. Instead of reducing it, it is increasing the crack between men and women: It's a three-point climb from 2008. This is our situation, and, as we said in interpelation, it is clear that public powers, in this case, have something to do in order to repair it, or at least to relieve it. Public politics are extremely important; they are of importance to the dignity of labor, and to give a proper answer to employment. But instead of doing that, the government, funk, has fed up that panoma we just described, and has increased its dignity, instead of repairing the problem, made it more serious. A lot of people and a lot of people are currently suffering from a rough state, and anyway it's a bad policy for you anyway. We've wasted the whole legal law because EAJ has refused to take the measures that would really be effective. I'm talking about the economic power policy developed in the tax policy, the budget policy and the industrial policy. "EH collect has insisted that every time you've heard us all these years you've heard us say that the policy of competition is a problem rather than a solution, because the restrictions and preventiveness are still bigger than the solution. We have asked Mr. Urkullu several times to give up the criteria of caution, and to make use of the power of this people by adapting the limits and degrees of humiliation, and he has insisted that the former is to respect the mark of deficit, and pay the debt. Mr. Urkullu, Mr. President, he's been the world champion since he took charge. Therefore, as I said in interpelation, we were surprised by some expressions which have been made recently, contrary to probability, that it stifles us, and that it relaxes the defenceal line. In any case, it is a pleasure to have noticed that, in the name of the EH Collectors, what we have proclaimed had meaning in all these years, and that it had a bad meaning, and that it was a misfortune to perceive that it could give other options, we proposed with a certain proposal to make the proposition an action against these policies. We propose to create a collection of 500 million euros of employments, to resist precity, and to promote worthy employment. As I said before, the Administration is extremely responsible for this combat, because it has a great power to act in a good direction. And that's what we want you to do. Because this fund of 500 million is worth a contraction to make the pre-arrest disappear. We all know the situation, I won't repeat it: There are thousands of workmen working at the presidency. This money, too, would allow the establishment of the prevention of women, to reduce the fife with men, by comparing wages. And the third great aim of the essence would be to face the situation of the young. The young men themselves set out their ways, and made proposals. We all know the proposals proposed by the Council of the Basque Council in the Parliament. They propose, for instance, special considerations, to remove those who are pretors in order to produce a proper employment. They're asking for measurements from generation to generation, for jobs that are produced through jujugation to fit. Or, you know, start their job at the strategic sectors we've chosen before remand. There are more examples, which constitute the contents of the young police, which we have not seen during these four years. And of course, you guys here, and the funk, the parties, the EAJ Party, will say, "Where do we get the money, where do we get those 500 million people to make those roads? "I don't know. In the first place, we must say that this subject, the struggle against prerogative, and the employment, must have the full priority in the budget. Society, too, sees it so. In all the polls it has lately been shown that this is for the people, for our people, for our Araba, Uzia, and for the public of Gipulia, whether it has a priority or has a premeditation. So that's why we say it has to be a priority in the budget. And in an 11 billion budget, it's not absurd at all, from our point of view, to meet that 500 million. And secondly, from the course of the Discourse of Mr. Urkullus himself, there is time to abandon caution, and to loosen the bounds and degrees of defence. Let's do it. Let's take a step. Deficiency is not the law of nature, it is a political choice. This is the defence line set by the troika, whether it be performed or not, a volunteer, who, according to EH Collect, is now far more important than to satisfy the wants of the people who are having a bad time, is more important than to pay the debt to the great bank. It is further to be observed that it is a narrow frontier of our defense, and that it is proposed to us, according to the economic state of the Spanish State, but not according to our example, namely, that if we considered the reality of the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuia, we should have a greater capacity of fertility here, without danger of presustacious stability. There is therefore a choice, there is need of political will to create the profession of employment. We must do what is said, and that is why we made this suggestion, a few steps along the road, but at least a few steps to begin. It's true there are no corrections. EAJ introduced only the correction, then withdrew it, and it is true it confirms in some sort of correction that it follows in the direction of the "Mama-mong," that there was no other proposal and all the other parliamentary groups introduced no correction. I hope that you agree with the proposition, that the reason why we are not to correct them is, in short, that we have heard speeches in favour of certain groups, even at the very present moment. But it was impossible to know what the attitude and opinion of each group are. For the next round, I'll leave it for the second round, because it's an opportunity to talk about it after I've got an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Since no corrections have been submitted, Mistto... ? He's not here. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. It is true that there are some of the issues expressed here today, and that we also heard them fifteen days ago, with which we cannot but agree. It is true that unemployment and the employment situation are the main concerns, not only in all of Spain, but also in Euskadi, because our community has not lived behind that reality, and we have also suffered in the first person the effects of the crisis and unemployment. And it is true, as has been said here and I was also putting it in the initiative of origin, that behind the cold figures and statistics people find themselves with their problems, with their anguish for lack of resources. The public authorities have the political obligation, but above all the moral obligation, to articulate the mechanisms necessary to provide a satisfactory response to those needs that citizens pose to us, and let us not forget, and it is true, that the first need that everyone poses is to have decent and stable employment. When from the public authorities we are not able to offer these answers, what we are showing is the failure of these policies aimed at combating and reducing unemployment figures and achieving quality jobs. But we too believe that this must be done from responsibility, not from demagogy. For this group, employment has always been a concern in this House, and so we call Mr Aburto on employment as early as the end of 2013. And I questioned him because after a year at the head of that counseling had sold a lot of smoke, but the results were not visible. Many promises had been made in the electoral campaign, but, as I say, the results were not coming. In the motion resulting from that inquiry, I requested that the employment law, which according to the legislative timetable had foreseen its submission in the first half of 2015, be advanced to 2014. We finally reached a compromise so that it would be a priority in legislative work, but it seems that that priority has not been, because we are finalizing the first quarter of 2016 and here we continue without employment law. Mr Aburto left this government leaving behind a bad management, as shown in Lanbide's organisation and as shown in the employment data that has been in place over the years. And he also left, as I say, without passing, without presenting the employment law. And we believe that this law, beyond serving the Toña versus Aburto confrontation, can and must be the instrument for the Executive and this Parliament to detail the actions that drive a fairer labour market, from the point of view of competitiveness and sustainability. Because it is not enough to say that employment is a priority, because I believe that it is a priority for everyone. You have to prove with the performances that it is, and the facts are that they speak for themselves. I said at that time, and I repeat it again now, that the mantra of the good manager, something that seemed consistent with nationalism, was beginning to crumble and disassemble, and the employment data of this legislature and the action of this government in this legislature make it clear. The counselor, when he answered here the question that gave rise to this initiative, showed an attitude that is the second leg of the classic nationalist argumentation, his second mantra: the fault is never mine, the fault is always the one from the outside. Who is to blame for the situation of job insecurity in Euskadi? Well, it's the government's fault and the labor reform. And I'm going to show you two news stories, with very similar headlines. This: "Labour insecurity delays the emancipation of Basques". And this one: "The young Basques move between unemployment and job insecurity." The headlines are very similar, very similar. Do you know the difference between the two? The date: the first one I taught was in early 2008, when some in Euskadi assumed that there was no crisis here, and the second one is in October 2015. Then before the last demonized labor reform, there was also job insecurity in Euskadi. And what is the point in common between the two news? That in both moments ruled the same party, the Basque Nationalist Party. And it is that the temporality and difficulty of access to the labour market of the population in general, and of young people in particular, has been a constant over the past twenty years. It has been said here how we are today; well, the latest data assure that the autonomous communities that have the lowest rate of temporality are the Community of Madrid or the Community of La Rioja, compared to the Community of Euskadi, which has a 23, almost 24 % temporality. In fact, if from the national series we eliminate the data of other autonomous communities in which, because of their economic model, the type of hiring that is usually that of temporality, we find that in Euskadi there is a high rate of temporality for the economy that we have. And is the satanic labour reform of the People's Party government guilty of precariousness and temporality, as Mr Toña said a week ago? The truth is that this reform has been the target of all criticisms, of the poor employment situation in Spain and also in Euskadi. Almost all parties, all the media blame him for everything: the precariousness of working conditions, the reduction of wages, and even the high unemployment rate. It seems that everything was perfect before this labor reform, but it wasn't. I am not going to explain again what we have discussed with profusion, that the Spanish labour market had a series of structural problems that needed to be addressed, but, beyond what some of the media terminals close to the left can say, one of the things that sought this job reform was precisely to end the trend generated by another job reform, that of Mr Zapatero. Because yes, Mr Zapatero also made a labor reform with a general strike included; by the way, reform in which the Basque Nationalist Party abstained. And in that reform there was a concatenation of temporary contracts; that is, it was lived in a permanent temporary contract. And the labor reform was meant to end that. It introduced incentives to enhance the recruitment of young people, long-term unemployed people and people with family burdens; it prioritized support for SMEs and self-employed people, creating the indefinite contract for support for entrepreneurs, and establishing bonuses. It is true that temporary contracts in Euskadi and the rest of Spain must be reduced, but that does not have, or does not seem to have much to do with – and then I will refer, if not, to the second intervention – the liberalisation of the labour market. Because I want to say here that it is true that we have to deal with the temporality, the long-term unemployed, the rates of youth unemployment which are still very high, the employment rates of women, but, really, how can we do that? With the proposal that is presented here today and putting an additional fund of 500 million is solved? For we believe that many more measures are needed than those. Not just the adoption of the employment law: it is necessary to invest in innovation, competitiveness and education, because in this way we will have more and better companies that bring knowledge and added value. And we also believe that it must be done rigorously. Because it has also been said here and in the interpellation it was made clear that where this proposal was to be made was from the demonstrations that the lehendakari had made to end austerity and deficit. Beyond the fact that we can share that it is also necessary to relax austerity policies, it is no less true that it must be done from the positions of a serious and responsible government, and this goes so far as not to go to the extreme opposite – that is to say, to spend without control what we do not have – because that is what has largely led to the situation that we have experienced since 2007 and from which, to date, we have not been able to recover. Because one thing, as I say, is to lower austerity policies, and another is to defend the laxity in controlling the public deficit; because in the end the public deficit has to be paid, and it is almost always paid in the same way, with public debt. And the institutions can clearly request an increase in the allowable deficit figures, but until that changes, the figures for that deficit will have to be respected. And what comes to ask the proposition is that we skip those numbers, that we skip the rigor. And, already put, if we have to jump it in 500, why don't we skip it in 1,000, which could probably be asked many more questions? And we assume, as I say, that it would be by increasing public debt, because if it is by reducing items that are in the budget, it would also be necessary to explain which items are to be reduced in order to take out that additional fund of 500 million, because the money from the air actually does not yet come out. And it also draws attention, and with this I conclude, that, having governed the proposing party in other institutions, however, it is not apparent that the deficit figures in those institutions have increased exponentially. These institutions have respected the deficit figures, as have other rules, despite the fact that other chambers have urged non-compliance. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u32	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u33	Well, on this second point we do not want to start the intervention either without making an emotional memory of the workers who died in the Ondarroa work accident, and show our solidarity with their families. Well, regarding the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu, I want to tell you, Mrs Arrondo, starting at the end... We cannot subscribe to your proposal, because, as the whole House knows, we have a budgetary agreement with the Government and, therefore, finally, to sign an agreement of this kind would far exceed the terms of that agreement. On the other hand, the figure you handle, so seen a little bit in bulk, gives the impression that it is for peaks, shovels and grasses, like those of the Great Captain, 500 million, because on paper, which endures everything, they could have put that figure or any other number. And it seems to us, of course, that it is not a question of amounts, but of policies. And what we do agree with, indeed, is that the issue of precariousness, together with unemployment, has become today a common place in the debates on social policies, labour policies and so on. Low wages, temporaryity, lack of professional recognition... Finally, there are a number of facts that show what we call precariousness today, which is nothing more than the reduction of business obligations and the translation of business risk into the world of work, into the world of wage earners. This, indeed, happens as a result of a certain historical process, does not happen by chance, and certainly constitutes a general phenomenon that does not only affect our sphere, but is extended. We Socialists have a number of proposals which we have put forward and which I am going to talk to you about, as the subject has been raised. For us socialists, some of the measures (some of the measures) that we propose that can be effective against this phenomenon of precariousness begin by proposing three types of contracts: indefinite contract, temporary contract, and relief contract. We also plan not to cover permanent jobs with temporary contracts, and that no temporary contract may last more than a year, although by collective bargaining it may be extendable to two. We are also trying to pursue policies to converge on the rate of temporality with the European average, because our rate is much higher; to put an end to false self-employed people, to false fellows; to increase the minimum wage between professions to 60% of the average net wage; to combat the wage gap between men and women until full equality is achieved; to re-regulate part-time work and, of course, to revitalize collective bargaining. Collective bargaining for socialists also has a character of redistribution of wealth, like taxes, and collective bargaining, because, in the end, it does not live its best days, especially in our territory. Some argue that the fight against job insecurity arises as an impossible struggle, since this is a phenomenon, as I say, determined by a historical process, and then, how to deal with, with what policies to deal with this scourge of insecurity. Some argue that it must be accepted that the argument for precariousness is that of job flexibility. Of course, labour flexibility, as a social requirement, has become all this. So, we believe that the argument of flexibility can have some amenable character, but that it has become, as I say, an absolute deregulation of work, of labour relations, and that it eventually transfers business risk to workers. We have put forward a number of measures in this decalogue, but it is also true that some things can be done from the Basque Government which may not be being done. We have repeatedly said that in the area of employment policies the Government, in short, deserves a suspension for us, and we have pointed out in other matters some major deficits, but because of the precariousness of the labour market we believe that in this way, in the near future, measures that can be taken directly would be, for example, as our spokesman in this area, Mrs Sánchez, pointed out, to equip the places missing from the Labour Inspectorate. That is very important, because much of this precariousness is not simply a consequence of atmospheric factors, but a consequence of absolutely despotic labour relations, absolutely outside any positive order, however retrograde it may be. And, therefore, the presence of the Labour Inspectorate is important, and here we see that the Basque Government has neglected the need to cover these places. Other aspects that could also be considered, for example in the works? For the continued presence of the prevention delegates and the security coordinators, who normally go there, make a visit, and leave. Because, of course, it must not be forgotten that another non-minor element, as a result of precariousness, is also the increase in labour sinestrality. The increase in labour casualty also has much to do with precariousness, and we therefore believe that the presence of these elements, the prevention delegates and the Labour Inspectorate, doing their work, could be such, without going further, measures that the Government could then take not to eradicate precariousness, but to combat some of its most pernicious effects. Therefore, as I say, the Socialists do have a range of measures that we believe can help to combat this phenomenon of precariousness. Possibly not to eradicate it, because it does not seem easy; however, if we exist, what we have been defending is also the need for sufficient social coverage so that, in the event that it is not easy to go against this new doctrine of labour flexibility that the world of companies proposes, at least that this does not mean helplessness for workers, neither insecurity, nor being caught up in despotic labour relations. A powerful social coverage network would be another measure. We have it, of course, but certainly against the phenomenon of precariousness, which already has almost apocalyptic characteristics, it would indeed be necessary for that social protection network, here and there, to be sufficient network to minimize the effects of precariousness. As I say, we have some of those measures. Expecting that in the future the Spanish Government will pass through the presence of the socialists, at that point we, with that decalogue that we have proposed, believe that we can reduce the most harmful effects of precariousness. And finally, as I started by saying at the beginning, understanding that the debate that you are putting forward, which is not the first time that it has been brought here, is interesting, that it is indeed a debate of our time, the proposal that you incorporate seems to us to come out of absolutely any possibility of agreement. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u34	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. We have a discussion of the measures we have to take against the traffic-prefect. When the speaker made an interpenetration, he spoke in words: "The chief concern of the people, of the Basque People, is the employment, and the preparation of labour." We learned about Centro de Investigaciones Socilógicas Nikolais ♪ Exod................................................ As a matter of fact, the bookmaker is very important, he doesn't appear as a worry at first posts. That's your interpretation, Mrs. Arrido. This doesn't mean we don't have to worry about the euberting team and the making-up. We're worried about the subject and busy. As the Chief Toñan said to you, you will admit, first of all, that it is necessary to start a job of quality, won't you? And that's what government's been up to since the first day, slowly turning around our situation. That's how the records reflect. 2015. The rate of unemployment was 14%.76; 2014. 16,31% a year, 2013, 16 percent of 57. It's still too much, okay, but we can see the positive effects of the measures the government has put in motion. The rate of unemployment gradually descends. In February, the number of unemployed fell by 237, a small number, but it reflects a positive path that is accompanied by an increase in the number of social security members also in the last month of February. The Government has been working since the first day to improve the situation, to create conditions that facilitate job creation. To this end, it promoted the 2014-2016 Employment Plan, with €775 million committed over three years, which complements an economic recovery plan of €5.7 billion. Both plans have perfectly defined both the lines of action and the axes on which the measures to be implemented should be centered and the corresponding economic items. It is true that the amendments approved at the request of the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies, which have been harshly criticized by both the PNV and the Basque Government, allow for contractual modalities that lack stability and duration over time, which in turn creates insecurity for workers and workers, as has also been said by other spokespersons. It is true that the labour reform promoted by the People's Party has not helped to create jobs, and has created situations of greater instability. With regard to the large number of workers who are out of agreement, to which you referred in your question, it is fair to recall that, regardless of labour reform, there have been sectoral agreements without being renewed for more than fifteen years in Euskadi. Therefore, let each one also assume his or her responsibility. You know it is the jurisdiction of the state of industry, Mrs. Arrido, where the execution of the rule remains in the hands of Euscalia. We have stated that we do not agree with the form of labour under the influence of PPk, but we see that laws must also be fulfilled. To create quality jobs, we must start by creating jobs. I suppose you'll agree with us on this premise. In this context, the Government is developing an incentive programme for job creation, seeking conditions that improve quality employment, multi-annual programmes that include local and commercial plans, first opportunities for young people with contracts, practices, and incentives to recruit over 45 years of age. In the interpellation – and you also mentioned it today – Bildu endorsed the ideas expressed by the Lehendakari Urkullu at the Euskadi-Basque Country 2020 Forum, concerning the request to the European Union to rethink its austerity policy, which drowns us, which can make 2017 budgetly very complicated. There will be more demands for social policies, more and more demands on the debt limit and deficit compliance, and all with fewer resources. We need financial capacity for strategic and innovation projects. (Words of the speech of the lehendakari at the University of Deusto that you mentioned the day of the interpellation.) Collect praised the President's words and welcomed Mr. Urkullu for his own purpose. Y Aqui discrepamos, señora Arrido: "El President Ukullu viene supportoro maxime misma be desde hace tempo, mucho ti tempo." At the World Economic Forum, in front of all the European leaders who attended the Bilbao summit in 2014, his speech was in the same vein. While some criticized the participation of the lehendakari in that summit and others dedicated themselves to destroying all the urban furniture they found in their wake, the lehendakari, I insist, made it meridianly clear that only austerity measures were not enough, which were counterproductive to get out of the crisis. The President told them in the face that Austerity is not the way to the European authorities in the Forum celebrated by Bilbo, he accused them of strangling us with the measures of caution. So welcome to you, we're going to have to agree to what EAJ-PNV stands for. They are, indeed, to be obeyed in proportion as the rules are rules, though they please more or less, it is not a question of will. You know better than you know that an insatiate with the rules does not agree with us, that you will not be accompanied by us, and that when you command, you do not submit to the established regulation. We're not protecting your initiative. As a matter of fact, we're surprised that we're asking the government to create a quality employment, and to demand a new preparation for attacking industry. You people often accuse him of asking for a plan to spend too much time working on the Red Beetle, you often ask him to go through the words, and now you ask for a plan? On countless occasions we have said that the Government is working to create the conditions that generate confidence to promote economic recovery that in turn favours job creation. Lehenengo, fill out exit behar da, fill out gabe ez dagoelako enplegu-kalitari buruz hitz egiterik, gure ustez. Beraz, Jaurlaritzaren neurriak eraginkorrak izan dira, enplegua outu egin da; gutxi, astiro, batha badoa. Zuen eskakizunaren bigarren zatiari dagokionez, 500 million euroko aurrekontu gehigarria eskatzen duzue plangintza honetarako, age bai, nondik proposedzen duzue lortzea diru-kopurua? How do you propose to distribute it? By sectors, by groups... Is that what you're talking about? Zergatik 500 million euro age ez 1,000 million edo 5,000 million euro, adibidez? Zein kontu egin dituzue horrelako kantitate eskatzeko? It does not seem that any rigorous analysis has been carried out to ask for this amount, nor is it explained how they intend to materialize it, from where they think that the additional 500 million can be obtained. We agree with you, conditions of work must be improved, and we must all encourage employment of quality among us, but aside from excessive and recklessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answering round, Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u37	Thank you. I'll begin first to tell the Popular Party a few things. He admits there's a problem, I've tried to understand that ours is a big deal. We're making a precise proposal, some measures, very precise, and it's a big deal to make a difference, and then it's a big deal to make out the politics that the Poptula makes of Madrid. Workforms... I shall say, that the forms of labour have urged once more the dignity and unworthiness of employment, and have undoubtedly placed the interests of the benches in the first rank. So, I don't know whether to call them a tax or give them another name, but we can see that these policies are making the reality that we're doing now. On the other hand, to the Social Party, Mr. Ichaso, I don't know if you think 500 million is a problem or not. I think that quantity will not be a problem, you mention it, and so on. You say you will propose a few measures. At first I didn't know whether you were going to suggest these measures in this camera or in Madrid, it was clear that at the end you were looking at Madrid for proposals. What do we do here while we're at it? What do we do? It's not possible... Ez dago hemen Mendia andrea, bathe nola da possabile Mendia andreak behin eta berriz esatea egun hauetan jateko gauzak say inportanteenak, eta gero horrelako proposemenen aurrean kontra bozkatzea? Isn't it food stuff we're talking about? Is it not an initiative that is possible and that would improve, at least in specific sectors, something of the dire situation that is currently being experienced? How can it be – because we are reading it these days – that you say on the one hand that your party is the only party, it seems, centered on unemployment, health and pensions, that the others do not know where we are, and that then, when concrete proposals are made to improve and give solutions and find ways out to sectors that are going through it frankly wrong, the Socialist Party says that, as it has a budgetary agreement with the government, with the Basque Nationalist Party, it cannot take a step forward? That also deserves some other qualification. And EAJri, Mrs. Argree, look, I think it's very good to make a terrible stew around all the plans, we talked about it the other day. But we have to say something: what they have brought with them is, after all, to be in the present state, not to be visibly lowered, and to be pre-eminence. We can't just say it's the fault of the form of work. Workform, we know what the effect is, but what can we do here? Because you can go on talking about plans and plans, but I think that if you were to go out with that speech this morning to the workers of Arcelor, it would not be of much use to me, or to Amururora, Tubos Reunidos or Aernnova, because they have no solution with these plans. So enough for plans and plans to praise what you're doing when we all know that the results are really bad and that we have to accept them. So we always say, we have to put things in another direction, and it's possible and there are possibilities. Look, you mentioned the private sector. I'll get you another one, the sector that's in my power right away. You can take steps. What's going on in education? What's the matter with the employment satisfaction they've had at Osaparte? What happened in public contract with social clauses? There are many things that can be done, since Mr. Toña isn't in the Ukullu, I'll tell Toña that many things are not done. Each one of us cares, every one his own cares; Deficit, I will say, "Nothing can be moved," that is, "some others tell us." Look, we're on the defensive. The first day he went out: "Déficit por comunidas," we're the last, o seca, least. We're under 0.27 points from the raw internal procedure. All the other communities, whether Social Party or Popular Party, are visible from above. If we'd only come to the average, we'd have more than 600 million in the owen. So there's a chance, and that's why we say Mr. Urkullu was the champion of these Australian policies. And what's he doing? Propaganda, Mr. Toña, and this is propaganda. Yesterday, today and tomorrow, but the position of dignity and employment does not improve. And you won't agree today that this simple proposition will be brought to you by non-commony, but you must know that it's a serious matter and that public policies must be placed in a different direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u39	Yeah, good morning again. Mrs Arrondo, there's a lot of demagogy. A lot! And the truth is that EH Bildu makes demagogy, and with this initiative makes demagogy in this House, totally and absolutely. And he does demagogy when he says something here and in the institutions in which he rules or has ruled he does something different, he does things different. That is demagoguery: to say that the deficit figures, when the one who governs is another, can be altered, can fall into rebellion, can not be fulfilled, and, however, in the institutions in which one governs, neither plans nor skips the deficit figures. Because in the end the deficits are true, as I said before, that they can be negotiated so that austerity policies can be changed, but in any case we cannot go to an unlimited enlargement of the deficit either, because deficits, as I say, then have to be paid for. And much of the situation we are in is precisely due to the enormous public expenditure that has been made in the Spanish Government for a long time. And Mr Itxaso spoke of the return of the Socialist Party and the generation of employment. Well, look, what do you want me to say? Precisely you are not an insurance to generate employment! And I'm sorry, to name Mr Zapatero again, I'm sorry, but it is that Mr Zapatero took unemployment by 10%, and doubled it to a rate of 22%. He took Spain with 2.2 million unemployed, and left it at five million. Then the truth is that, as sure as it is to generate employment, then, I don't know. And as sure to go against flexibility, well, I don't know either, because it seems that labor reform... I've named you one before, Mr. Zapatero's, that the Basque Nationalist Party abstained, but there's been more. There have been many labour reforms, and one of the most answered was precisely the one made by the government of Felipe González (not to name only Mr Zapatero, man; let us also name others). And that was one of the most intense labour reforms that there was, that was done without the participation of the trade union centres, and the measures entailed a relaxation in the rules of contracting and collective bargaining; a new tool was provided to the companies, with the increase of causes for dismissals for technological or economic causes, and it was allowed to create a new learning contract that from then on was known as a garbage contract. Then that all the labor reforms are only those of the People's Party, for, you see, there have been many, and made by you. And here we were talking about the flexibility of the labour market. I am not going to talk again about labour reform and flexicurity because we have debated profusely, but, look, we often set as a model, the rates of unemployment and occupation, to the countries of Europe, and it is precisely in those countries where markets are most liberalised, and precisely where they are an example of flexicurity and the flexibility of the labour market. And that is precisely where they have more stable jobs, because they have more stable jobs, and of course they have lower unemployment rates. Then one thing does not necessarily have to do with the other, however much you have said it here today. Nor does flexibility have to do with an increase in labour sinestrality. No, no, What will have to be done is to put the institutions to work so that they control and that there is no such sinister work. Finally, I will refer to the Basque Nationalist Party, which I do agree with some of the demonstrations that have taken place here, and it has been an absolutely mediocre legislature in job creation. Poor job creation! The Basque Nationalist Party is full of mouths always talking about self-government, and when it has tools to exercise this self-government, when it has tools to be able to act in the labour market, it has not done so. And, in fact, we have been the whole legislature, in the generation of employment, behind the rest of Spain. And you'll be able to get me the same data from 2015, which is in the only... But precisely, for example, in January we created fewer contracts, we had fewer contracts than the Spanish average, and unemployment has also increased two points more than the Spanish average. Then the truth is we'll have a lot of tools, but they haven't been able to use them. It is seen that the Basque Nationalist Party, when it rules with the wind in favor, can get some results, but it certainly does not know how to rule when the wind is rising and when the wind is going against it. And this legislature, of course, has been a clear example of this. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u40	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u41	Well, Mrs. Llanos, since you like to go to history, I'm going to do a little retrospective too. You see, you have certainly managed to convince many citizens that the global crisis brought Zapatero. Well, I have to admit that it is a dialectical success on your part, but I have to remind you, since you appeal to history, that when Mr Zapatero ruled the world's main financial institution, the IMF, he said that the foundations of the world economy were solid. And Zapatero's policies were based on those kinds of dictates. Do you know who was at the head of the International Monetary Fund? You want me to tell him? Legs! One leg. And that gentleman was the one who managed the world's leading financial institution, the IMF, which came to tell all Western governments that the foundations of the economy were honey on coal. It was shown that all that was, like all that has surrounded that lord and acolytes, a great lie. Therefore, you do well to use that argument very suitable for infidels, but I want to tell you that at least to me that story that Zapatero was the one who brought the world crisis, believe me, will not enter me. Mrs Arrondo, I, unlike you, do not doubt that you are committed to precariousness. You doubt that we will, but I have no doubt. What I want to say, or what I was trying to say in the first intervention, is that it is not a question of voluntarism; that is that you put 500 million, but by the same you could have put 1,500 or 2,000. However, what you haven't done is pose exactly... Well, yes, he has talked about some issues on which we also share some approach, despite substantive discrepancies, for example social clauses in recruitment and others that are part of a large basket of measures. I have quoted a couple of them, because, in fact, here we are sometimes bringing things that happen suddenly. The inspection or so are things that came to my mind, but there are other measures that can be taken. However, his proposal for what he is suffering from is a lack of concrete measures, and I understand it, because the problem is much more extensive and much more complex than to resolve with four occurrences. So what they put forward is something that I, after all, have seen with quite a profusion in politics; especially sometimes the most minority groups, to be noted, say, "Well, because I make a proposal of 1 billion", and of course, that seems to automatically make them great valiant. Policies have to be possible. We do not defend precariousness, and when I said in the first intervention that this is the result of a historical process, I am not expelling any government. I am saying that, indeed, there have been regulatory changes, there has finally been an involution in labour law, that is obvious, and surely we, and I have no pain in saying it, will also have some responsibility. Why? Because neo-liberal dogmas have been imposed to such an extent that in fact many of the times we too have fallen prey to such doctrines. But that does not mean that we do not have clear knowledge or awareness of where the problems are and where some avenues of solution can go that attack, that go to alleviate these problems, taking into account, in fact, that... And I must also say something else: in fact, the fight against the deficit sometimes seems to be a crusade, but you should know precisely that sovereigns (sovereigns) are creditor countries, not debtor countries. And, therefore, in the end, the deficit is not something that can be assumed without funds. And then another thing: you must also remember and know that one form of modern colonization is to debt precisely to countries and entire regions. So you have to have a certain criterion to know how far you get. That they are committed to the fight against precariousness? I think so, but believe me, so do we.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Again. Look, EH Collector, I won't let you know, Mrs. Arrido, that the Euko-Minge has increased the preparation, because it's not true, and that the measures she's taken are not effective. It is not true, and though a thousand times repeated, a thing that is not true will never be true. I told you, and there's the data. The unemployment rate in 2013 is 16,57% and today it's 14,76, at the end of 2015 years, so the situation is gradually improving. Slowly, and all of us would have liked it much slower than we would have liked, but it's going away. Then you said that the truncheon's full of deficiitt or not volunteer. Because you say so! That's not true. You know, it's not true at all. That's a big thing to say and throw it out here. On the other hand, you said we have a close defense line for Spain. Because Spain is much worse and we'd have a better defense line here. "Poes imlícitatete está reconocendido que el Gobierno Vasco leaderdo por el señor Ukullu hace las cosas mucho mejor que en el resto del Estodo." Thank you for accepting positives from time to time. You didn't answer my questions. Where you're going to get the money, why, 500 million and no grand, and you never mentioned where the money comes from. And with you, we agree that the conditions of work must be improved and that we must end up with the Prefect. We agree with this, but apart from excessive and recklessness, as a matter of actual effective measures. The People's Party said we've been behind the whole legislature in generating employment. Yes, and they repeated it over and over again every time we had a debate on employment issues. I haven't heard about it lately, because the situation is better, it's been a long time ahead of the state. There is no more to see than the levels of tax in the State, those in the Basque Country, the deficit limit, which Mrs Arrondo and so on reminded of. So, lessons the minimums. Keep moving all the skills you want, don't worry, that here we will govern ourselves much better when the skills are in the hands of the Basque Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the original text of Madame Arrival Rocko. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; counters, 53; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u45	Original text was not accepted as a result. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, introduced by the US of Blanca Roncal Azanza, members of the Socialists, the 954/2015 Decree, which the nurses allow to give medical treatments. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Roncal has the word to introduce and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u46	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, good morning to all. Let's start today with a matter that for an outside observer to the issue of nursing prescription, as modified by Decree 954/2015, it might seem that we are turning around as a node to the content of the decree and the points that do not seem right to us. But after the attendance of the representatives of the medical schools, the nursing schools and the unions in commission, and of bilateral relations with all of them, we have come to the conclusion that the decree collects the worst of each house. In other words, the general interests above certain general schools, but not the collectives to whom they represent. They must be interests of power, economic objectives, which have been embodied in this decree without even being married to both planes. The result is a decree that no one likes, not even those who have put their hands on it. But, as this step we have already taken, that of rejecting the decree, we have analyzed it and we have already rejected it, it has been rejected by the Basque Parliament, the Basque Government, the councillor has in fact already submitted an appeal, the nursing schools have rejected it too, the unions... And what do medical schools say? Well, they like some things, but they don't generally like them. And they don't like it because it also creates problems where they weren't. And when a decree gets an answer of fervent adherence or fervent rejection it is that it is not adjusted, that something fails in it. And, as I say, what do medical school representatives like? Indeed, it recognizes, as the law does, that both diagnosis and treatment or medical prescription are the responsibility of the doctor. The rest reject it, and recognize that it is also pejorative for the groups of nurses, who are increasingly trained, that they are required 180-hour courses to prescribe medicines that the neighbor can advise today. For example, take a paracetamol. The bartender can advise, but not the nurse if she hasn't done those 180 hours. Therefore, this decree, as I say, creates a problem. For doctors, who had already agreed with nurses on certain areas of shared work, in which nurses could perform functions such as, for example, the control of chronic patients, assessing the situation and adjusting the doses of treatments, always originally prescribed by a doctor, who could adjust the doses. And now that is prevented by the decree. Another thing that also generates conflict between teams of doctors and nurses, which until now was peaceful and which, as I say, shared space and treatment, is the issue of vaccines in the children's vaccination calendar. Because, as in other vaccine proposals, it can be considered that there is a health authority that proposes it and therefore does not need an individual prescription, in the case of the infant vaccination schedule it is already causing problems. Because nurses do not feel that they have sufficient legal capacity to decide that they can put in vaccines that the doctor has not prescribed and that there has been no health authority that has prescribed it, and therefore have no legal certainty to do so. That's an unsolved area right now. As I say, concrete problems are being created in very important areas. And what solutions are proposed here? The counselor has so far pointed out to the nursing directorates and has also informed the schools of doctors and nurses that nothing happens, that the royal decree gives a period of five years to acquire these nursing skills, as I say, to prescribe what does not need to be prescribed, to advise a patient with trinkets, gauzes, bandages or that paracetamol, which today, as I say, can prescribe any neighbor. So, is the counselor right? For here there is a problem, because the counselor says that nothing happens, but the legal reports of the nursing schools, and of other unions, also the state lawyer, say that this is not resolved with a civil liability policy; that here there may be individual criminal responsibilities and that there is no civil liability policy that can compensate for the response to a complaint or an adverse effect, that there are when you put a treatment. So, what's going on? Well, the nurses say that either the counselor personally assures them that he and all Osakidetza will effectively assume any responsibility that arises as a result of this interaction... And it is, of course, that the houses of civil responsibility have told the counselor not to assume that responsibility. Zurich, the house that had until 28 February the civil liability policy, has said this (it will not have been told to the councillor, but it has been told to other interested parties that they also had a policy with the Zurich house). We already know that there is now another house, and I do not know if this new house will assure nurses for the development of competencies that theoretically are not endorsed in the decree. And, therefore, we tell the counselor who is responsible for him, because he, as he constantly reminds us, is the one who governs, so he has the responsibility to solve this problem. This problem, as I say, is causing consequences for the group of nurses, for the group of doctors and, consequently, for the group of patients. He has to tell us how he thinks this problem should be solved, because doing as if there is no decree is not good, doing as if there is no decree is not good, unless you want – something that is not usually usual in you, given your prudence – to decide to throw down the street in the middle, or to make a direct confrontation with Madrid and fail to comply with the decree. The doctors have suggested to us in commission that it would be enough to make a list of medicines that the nurses could dispense, but it is that that list was not as a list, but as an act on certain tasks, which is precisely what is preventing the decree at this time. I don't know if the counselor is willing to work with the group of nurses and doctors to agree on a list of medications that can be dispensed by nurses in their daily work and that are not subject to criminal liability. What we ask the adviser is to tell us what solution he thinks should be put to this situation in Euskadi. We don't care as much as others do. Others will have the responsibility to touch them with their patients. In this case, in Euskadi, the responsibility, as the adviser always reminds us, is of the adviser. Tell us, and we ask you, to make a plan, to tell us how you will solve this problem that everyone recognizes has created the royal decree. All (doctors, nurses, unions, Parliament...), we all recognize that there has been a problem that has generated the approval of the royal decree. The Basque Government, and the Government through its Health Adviser, must respond to this problem in Euskadi. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u48	Good morning, everyone. As a good friend said, the best government we can have in the Spanish state is the one in office. And why do I say this? At least when it is in operation in that period we have more chance of freeing ourselves from decrees laws, organic laws and other cuts and intruders in our limited competences, and for sovereignty. "Laúltima Legislature ha sido un desproposito sum." Neither is health safe, not only when it is related to those who are possessed; war has been declared without mercy against the health of citizens, against universality, and equity, in the government of Madrid. What have we seen in front of it? Well, we saw in front of it a weak, weak, merry, kneeling in front of Madrid with little courage and fear, in order to defend our people's rights in this parliament, in order to defend our citizens' rights, when they have a whole majority. Here we have an entire majority of 48 offers to give an answer to our people and defend our citizens' rights and competitions. What's going on? Well, recently we discussed the subject we were discussing today, we discussed February 4th, and obviously we have a problem. We have a problem and we have to solve it. It's all right to explain the attitudes each team can have, and it's all right, but apart from this interesting exercise, it's necessary and we think it's the everybody's duty to provide a solution to the problem that's in front of us. And then, in order to find solutions, we have different opinions here, there may be mamotics, which may be different planning, but I think that we should all have to come to a minimum agreement to protect our professional health professionals, in order to protect them morally and to do what they need to do in their everyday life. And that's why it's our priority to find an answer and a solution to the problem that Madrid's not able to handle and the EAJ government, that's what Madrid's got to do, but I don't think it's because it's not a problem to deal with, at least, he hasn't shown it. And here in a short time we've got to find a solution between us and all have to be explained. Because it's obvious that nurses aren't happy with the government. It must be something! I don't think people here are happy about anything. Doctors... Even doctors, I don't know if they're happy. And if we're clear of something we can't do, we're going to generate collisions between the different collectives in our health system, create problems. What are we looking for? What's in the Medical Plan and the Medical Department's strategic furrows? We have already received that we must encourage the multi-discipline teams, that we must make professionals possible for the best of our choices in order to ensure the health of our people. So we have to find a solution, and we're probably not going to be satisfied, but we have to take steps as fast as we can, because we can't go on for a long time, because otherwise we can have other effects. When we look for a solution, we think there are certain criteria which ought to be executed; to protect and encourage teamwork, to strengthen and strengthen multidislining equipment, the daily practice of EAE which we've had so far, to protect, protect, defend, defend, defend, defend, without increasing the list of waiting, without adding the bureaucrats, respecting and defending the role of nurses in confession and action, in the vaccine campaign, in the calendars, in the treatment of wounds, in the old buildings... Because we don't only have a problem with Osa as a member of the outside area, we're in trouble. And, of course, with this solution, yes, the nurse, the nurse figure of the nurses, and the other professional health, must be morally protected by the institutions. Because we can't just throw down everything we've done so far and make it worse, it's always for improvement, but what we can't do is go backwards. And so our party cannot approve of the decree which follows this imprudence. We can't ask him to comply with the order of the Order i.e. to accept this decree because it was irresponsible, because this decree was accepted without counting on any health professionals. So, how can we accept a decree that gave us a problem? No. We're not going to ask for it. And we think what we can't do is leave the nurses helpless, so we have to look for the nurses to protect us with the best legal figure we can. That's for starters. And then we must look into its depth and its quietness, and give an answer to the proclamations of nurses and the labours which they find in the everyday. And we find it necessary to explain and regulate all this, to appeal to the confession due to them as necessary as we see it necessary, and to value their labour. And all this was agreed to the discussion we had on February 4th, and it was important for us to confirm it today. But we will not content ourselves with this alone, for we will not content ourselves with seeking as much public as possible, social, and social, the most powerful and independent, though Madrid did not wish to. Aunque Madrid insuri impedernos y aunque Madrid no lo quiera. So that we brought in a new contribution in our corrections today, once the nurses heard, once the doctors had heard the doctor say that in the previous scene there might be an interesting suggestion that the doctors had put on the table, that it would be an interesting suggestion, that the nurses should regulate and define what kind of medicine, the prescribed and the other products they could use and allow. And to do this is to make a self-love, the best legal character. And that makes the most practical protocols we can get together with doctors and nurses. We clearly find an agreement. Then this was the new contribution we brought today, seeing what February 4th was testing. In the course of the day, it was very difficult to find a consent, partly because there were different matices on one side, and that we should not leave it in nothing, and that which we have agreed on February 4th, is what we've done to keep away... We've agreed with the Western patriot party that we agreed to reschedule on February 4th. But we're clear that the next step should be in the hands of you and we'll do the job if you're not going to, if you don't want to, you'll need a law here, a law, a decree to give nurses that legal protection and protect their daily routine. We feel that this is necessary, and that it is necessary for Madrid to be clear, because we are responsible for our professionals, our health system and our people. Then what we cannot do is depend on those who create it, and wait for them while the decree is derogized. Well, let's go and sit with the doctors and the nurses and let's go by a legal figure that might be the right thing for us to know and explain things so that no one is safe and that they can do their best. And this is what we would have it here to-day, and for this purpose we wish to show all our dispositions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, the President, the Chief of Parliament, and, on the other hand, the representatives of the nurses who have also come from the doctors, considering that they are following this debate. This debate is not new, but a month ago, I know more or less about it, we argued about it, as the Socialist Party introduced another proposal about the papers of the nurses, and we discussed this subject. He said that this is not the first time we have talked about this issue, about the content of Royal Decree 954/2015 of 23 October, regulating the indication, use and authorization of the dispensation of medicines and sanitary devices for human use by nurses. This issue was dealt with, addressed part of the speeches and debate that took place in this House, but it was about an initiative put forward by the Socialist Party in relation to the role of nursing. We, of course, absolutely agree with that initial initiative, and we, as a People's Group, gave our key to the elaboration of this nursing plan, because we understand that the role of nursing is a relevant role in the health system, in the whole care process in the field of primary care (which has to do with prevention, health promotion and rehabilitation), and also in the field of specialized care (which has to do with emergencies), and also what has to do with another area that is being greatly enhanced in recent years, home care (which has to do with the care of chronic patients, multipathological patients, and specifically care in the continuity of care for these patients). I therefore believe that it is also necessary to put the value of each professional within the whole care process, and I believe that this is also the case in the debate on this initiative. It is also necessary to coordinate the various levels of assistance. Today the Socialist Party brings an initiative as a result also of an inquiry, but I thought that, seeing the object of the inquiry, it was more directed – and the motion we are debating today I think it is (and, if not, that Mrs Roncal corrects me)..., it is the aim of this, since there has already been a pronouncement in the House on the said royal decree –..., I say that the objective was more, in some way, to censor or reprimand certain attitudes on the part of the Health Department, on the part of the counselor, that they are not being in compliance with an existing regulation, as this royal decree can be. I will make a few brief references, since they have been made here, to the content of the royal decree. With this royal decree, the ability to prescribe prescription drugs remains with doctors, dentists and podiatrists (there has been no change, that is to say) in the field of their competences, as was also provided for in the Guarantees Act of 2006, but the nurses have been assigned competences in two types of actions. We understand that there was a need for regulation in this particular area, and in some way it is what is trying to remedy the royal decree, which is the power, autonomously, to indicate, use and authorize the dispensation of medicines not subject to medical prescription (because when we talk about medical prescription, it has to intervene, as has been done so far, the doctor) and sanitary products, by means of a dispensation order, and also this power of medicines subject to medical prescription, once it is regulated the application of protocols and guides of care practice, of joint elaboration, agreed with the collegiate organizations of doctors and nurses and validated by the Quality Agency of the system... Well, I'm going to stay there, because I'm not going to get into all the contents of the royal decree. If I wanted to say that the nursing collective, under the royal decree – for making a summary – will now, after accreditation, enjoy the competence of use and indication of medicines not subject to medical prescription and of sanitary devices, which was not now recognized, and that the competence of indication and use of medicines subject to medical prescription is established taking into account the safety of the process and of the patient. It is protocolized, and requires treatment instructions, which should be included in the clinical history, according to Law 41/2002, on Patient Autonomy. Therefore, we believe from the Popular Group that the field of action and the competences of both professionals are clearly defined, that efforts have been made to improve the legal and legal security situation of nursing staff, and that this undoubtedly contributes to improving the legal security of both professionals and patients throughout the process; that aspects that were not regulated are regulated, as I have indicated, and that the regulation of the indication, use and authorization of medical dispensation was a historical demand. Therefore, I believe that the decree there has made for greater legal certainty, it has covered a gap in a space where there was no legal certainty. I am glad that, in some way, seeing Mrs Roncal's speech, the issue of influenza has been clarified, because it was the subject of discussion in the previous debate. It is clear that when a patient is going to travel to a country where there may be an epidemiological risk, he is going to go to the doctor, and the doctor will make a corresponding diagnosis and prescribe the appropriate vaccines or vaccines, and I think it is necessary to differentiate him well from a vaccination campaign (I think that has become clear today) such as that of the flu, where there is an epidemiological risk and there is a clear instruction from the health authority. And, therefore, when we talk about a vaccination campaign such as that of the flu, the decision starts from the health authority (there is already an epidemiological risk detected) in order to preserve public health. And, therefore, no prior diagnosis is required (we are not talking about patients), as the most exposed cohorts to this hypothetical risk have already been identified. I must also say that we all know the news of the denial of the precautionary suspension of this decree and of the specific article calling for the precautionary suspension. Because it must be said that only the precautionary suspension of Article 3.2 was requested, and, according to the relevant resolution, it has been refused. But what brings us here, apart from the fact that each group obviously has a position on the actual decree, which I believe was also made clear in the previous debate, I think it brings us here an important issue, and at least I think it was the initial objective also of the proposer, since the other was already a settled debate and we already knew the positions. It is, once there is the actual decree in force, therefore, the attitude of the Basque Government and the adviser to the head of the department, the one that has had in relation to the nursing collective, which, far from pacifying, has been able to contribute in some way to arson – if I may say so – by introducing more controversy in an area in which there had to be no controversy. Because certain communications from the Department of Health, inviting the nursing community to continue acting as if nothing had happened, and as if a regulation with a specific content had not been adopted, I believe that they are not at all appropriate, and I believe that it has subjected a group, unjustly, to legal insecurity and to a conflict or to an absolutely unnecessary tension. And I think that's reprehensible. Of course, we want to do it today in this rostrum. And, according to this position, it is in accordance with the content of our compromise amendment. It seems a lie that in an amendment to the compromise we have to urge the Government to this series of things, but we have been forced, and in some way, also by gathering the substance of the objective of the initial initiative, we call on the Basque Government to comply strictly with the royal decree. Obviously, it is the one that is in force, and the lehendakari will know very well that the regulations, the royal decrees, the laws, while they are not changed, are in force, and we are all obliged to comply with them. And on the other hand, we urge the Basque Government, more specifically the Department of Health of the Basque Government, and we say this very clearly in a paragraph that I think very concretely and rigorously, as I say, we urge the Department of Health of the Basque Government to refrain from taking any action or to perform any action aimed at the nursing community of Osakidetza carrying out actions that could lead to the violation of the law or to the commission of illegal acts that lead to the consequent criminal responsibility. Terminology is legal, but I think it was appropriate to bring it here and collect it in that text and, given what we are familiar with and the performance of the department, this paragraph. I have to say that in principle I do not know whether there is going to be any pause for the possibility of rapprochement with Mrs Roncal and some other groups. There is also an amendment, but it has not yet reached me, I have no knowledge of it. Well, I will wait to get to know you, but I hope that from this Parliament, since there is already a pronouncement on the actual decree, which we know what is and what is the position of each group, then, well, let us also go ahead with an agreement on a commitment by the Government and the Department of Health to scrupulously respect the current rules.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u51	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Myst. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u52	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Go ahead and support the Basque Government in its decision to bring an administrative and contentious appeal against the actual decree we are dealing with today, Decree 954/2015 of 23 October, regulating the indication, use and authorization of medicines and sanitary devices for human use by nurses. It's a royal decree we don't share. As a result of their approval, nurses are at this time a totally subordinate group and at the service of doctors, who can hardly make any kind of decision or supply any kind of medicine. This is a decision of the Government of Spain which, in our view, has no justification whatsoever, and which is simply not understood. Therefore, we oppose the royal decree. We request your abrogation or correction. Before the cure of a wound, ulcers or scars, until the approval of the royal decree a nurse could decide whether to apply an antibiotic cream or certain gels or dressings that carry metals or other components, medicines. After the approval of the royal decree this is annulled. The nurse or nurse could only put on a bandage and apply antiseptic. Some even doubt that they can do this, since, when different types exist, opting for one or the other implies a prescription. The Royal Decree requires that it be the doctor who says how the cure is to be made and what should be applied. The problem is aggravated where there is no medical service 24 hours a day, as it can be in elderly residences, where nurses usually apply, on their own and without medical consultation, antithermics when there is fever, pain painkillers, medicines and aerosols to help breathe in the face of breathing difficulties, etc. All this cannot be done since the entry into force of the decree. The problem is that the elderly may die if they wait for the doctor to arrive, while if nurses dare to give some treatment, however basic it may be, they may encounter a demand. The opposition to the royal decree is shared by all except the People's Party. Also the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Government and the Councillor himself, Mr Darpón. The point is that the counselor insists that there is no problem in the nurses continuing to carry out the tasks they had been carrying out before the adoption of the royal decree. During the inquiry by Mrs Roncal, the councillor, Mr Darpón, insisted that the royal decree is indeed binding; however, he also insisted that there are no legal problems in the event that nurses continue to act as they have done so far. The counselor informed us that he sent a letter to all the addresses of the public and private centers, mutuals and health centers so that all the staff (doctors and doctors, nurses and commanders) knew how not to stop applying the royal decree, but to interpret its application correctly in Osakidetza. That's what the counselor literally said. In addition, the adviser noted that the Basque Government has a legal report that supports his thesis. We have already registered a request for documented information so that we can actually be provided with that legal report. The matter is sensitive, Mr. Counsellor, so we ask you and we ask the Basque Government not to act irresponsibly, because in addition the state lawyer has already pointed out that the actions of nurses prescribing medicines without legal competence is a continuing criminal offence called intrusion. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, we ask you to act responsibly. Anyway, you don't play it, and you don't play it to nurses or nurses. You pointed out that we have the necessary legal resources to ensure that, despite the situation generated by the royal decree, we continue to provide a good service, with quality and safety for patients, and also with safety for professionals, something that the Basque Nationalist group also claims in its amendment of registered totality. Mr Councilman, if this Basque Parliament asks you to comply with that royal decree and not to put nurses at risk, the responsibility will be solely yours and your Government's. I do not know if there is going to be a transactional where this is actually collected, but I think it is clear that, beyond what we are against that royal decree, as a majority of this House is, we must comply with it, and therefore we cannot play with this and you cannot put nurses and nurses at risk. I understand that you, Mr. Counsellor, are not irresponsible and will act accordingly, i.e. responsibly. You pointed out that above the royal decree is the Law of Ordination of the Sanitary Professions, where it is established that the professional exercise is supported in guides and protocols of action. He came to say that, as there are such guidelines and protocols which state that nurses can perform certain actions, they would be perfectly covered, and there are no more risks than before the royal decree. You said this, you're convinced, you look very convinced. We, in any case, doubt it. It is also true that it is their responsibility to do so. Nor are we going to think that you are an irresponsible, of course. On the other hand, it is true that work continues to be done in a manner similar to that which was done before the royal decree and that at the moment there has been no problem. This is also true, at the moment there has been no problem. We do not want any problems, but, in any case, it is better not to play with fire and strictly comply with all the laws in force, those that we like and those that we do not like. We also understand that the picture is complicated. Compliance with the royal decree in a strict manner, or at least as we understand it, could lead to a mess in health care, since almost everything a nurse would have to do first would have to be prescribed by a doctor, which would almost lead to the collapse of primary care consultations and in many hospital services, while failing to comply with the decree would obviously put nurses at risk and legal uncertainty. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, we therefore ask you for maximum transparency and accountability. In the meantime, what we are doing is defending and voting on our amendment in its entirety, in which we propose that this Parliament urge the Government of Spain to repeal or correct Royal Decree 954/2015 of 23 October 2015 and in which we propose to urge the Basque Government to strictly comply with this Royal Decree while it is in force and to guarantee the legal security of nurses in the exercise of their duties. I think we're proposing something reasonable. We do not call for rebellion, we do not ask that the laws be violated. What we are trying to do is to have maximum legal certainty as long as that royal decree is in force, as it is today. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome delegates from the nurses' community, including medical representatives. Welcome to all of you, and to all good days, too. First of all, I want to make our behavior clear on this subject. As we said a few months ago in this Chamber, we don't agree with the Decree, King 954/2015 at any rate. We ask that the Spanish Government be abandoned to this rule, that is to say, let it be destroyed by the decree of the King, who has so many polemics, and has begun to accept a new rule, in order that the nurses may give them the dispensation of their medicines, and regulate them, in the autonomy company of health (for among them ours) and in order to obtain the consent of the medical and professional nurses. On the other hand, I think it's time to continue to use all the political and legal resources it's available to, in fact, to remove the government of Spain 954 King Decree. In the same way, we'd like to ask you to continue to use all the options that our autonomy in Er-Hornami gives him health legalities, to ensure the local population's health attack, and to guarantee the safety of nurses and doctors in their practice. So a few weeks ago, we've confirmed what's agreed between the legislature teams. But I must say, we don't quite understand what the real purpose or the cause of this motion is. We have not really fully understood the object of this motion. Already in the own inquiry on the fulfillment of the Royal Decree 954/2015 from which this motion is born there is something that does not fit. From the text of the original initiative and from what Mrs Roncal argued, we assume that the approach to the issue is confusing, at least. In the initial initiative you stated that the Health Advisor had sent a communication to the nurses of Osakidetza informing them of the need to continue prescribing as to date, and urging them to avoid the regulation contained in the actual decree mentioned. I don't know where you get that information, because it's certainly not what you get in the advisor's communication. Eta sure nago idatzia zuk ere irakurri duzula age on bath hobeto dakizula zuk esandako hori ez da agertzen, inondik inora. Heinera, hementxe bertan daukat testua age hori ez da horrela, inundik inora. Baina, sheath, bayztapen horrekin jarraitzen duzu. In fact, he re-emphasizes this idea in the full control where the interpellation ended: he stated that the counselor sent a letter informing nursing professionals that there is no transitional obligation to comply with the royal decree, and even adds, from his own harvest, that, according to Mr. Darpón, the nursing collective should not comply with it. Indeed, a surprising exercise in manipulating words, but of course it is by no means what the counselor told them in his writing. But what is even more striking is the justification for the motion we are debating today. You say that the adviser did not specify his policy on the implementation of the royal decree, and you urge the Basque Government to comply strictly until it is repealed. Roncal andrea, jakina erege-dekretua bete beharrekoa her, taste her ez taste her. It's a beretsut guk ez dugula beat taste. This was confirmed by the counselor himself to his literal question "Do you consider that there is an obligation to comply with the royal decree, yes or no? Do you consider that the parliamentary agreement of 4 February must be complied with in order for the Basque Government to use all legal and regulatory means to ensure that the nursing activity continues to have legal certainty, yes or no?". Eta bayetz was a zizun. The horrettan baytz interpellation was a zizun. Eta, hazelnut, zehazta a blue bear of the zizun Osasun Sailetik zein neururi hartu dituzten et ari aris direen aurrera eramatten. And in this sense I remind you that, among others, already on December 30 last year, a letter was sent to all the addresses of the health centres of the autonomous community, both public and private, in relation to the royal decree, so that everyone would have precise instructions on how it would affect us from its entry into force. And all that, based on the legal reports of fun, based on solid criteria, and not, therefore, as a mere thought. Besides, as he said to you, it was agreed that they should appeal to the king's decree, and also ask for the necessary measures, so as to be at once put to rest. In Congress, our team, the Eubertarian patriot, has introduced him to demand an abortion. And even Minister Alonso, the chief physician, has more than once explained to him that he must quit. So we think the motion is too much to repeat what we've been discussing a few days ago, because it was clear that what you asked is already filling up. That's why I'm telling you, Mrs. Roncal, she's doing all the laws that are related to her, because you don't have to remember, because she does it on her own account, because it's her duty. We don't know very well what you want in this initiative, though Mrs Garrido gave us a clue. El Gobierno lo ha dicho clamente: el real decreto está en vigor, y esto es incuestible. "La única que paire cuestionmentmentmenta esce." And what do you mean, you know, is that you don't know what you're talking about? In fact, if in any occurrences connected with this subject, we do not know what you stand for. It is not possible to say a few days after which a thing can be said, and a few days later it is impossible to say a thing against certain representatives, and a few days after. You know precedents better than you do, and how the royal procession was. Ezagutzen dituzu Erizainen Kontseilu Nagusiaren eta Satse sindikatuaren artean izandako negociaketak Espainiako Gobernuarekin. Badakizu akordioa erdietsi zutela Osasun Ministerarekin eta handik gutxira ministerak berak bere kabuz ez zuelela bete akordio hori. Even after the Council of State had issued its perceptual report, the text of the royal decree was amended, with the result that we are all suffering. Mrs Garrido, you do not need to be a pyromaniac firefighter, because, as you have said, tensions, problems, dysfunctions do not create them by this government: it creates them precisely the way in which this royal decree was adopted. Therefore, we understand that it is not necessary for you to act as a pyromaniac firefighter. You know, Mrs Roncal, that Royal Decree 954 establishes a transitional regime for obtaining the professional competences of nurses on the indication, use and authorization of the dispensation of medicines and sanitary devices for human use for the accreditation of nurses and nurses. This transitional regime is five years from its entry into force until 25 December 2020. He knows that protocols and guidelines for clinical practice should also be developed and validated for the indication, use and authorization of dispensation by nurses and nurses of medicinal products subject to medical prescription. For this purpose, representatives of the autonomous communities must be appointed, among others, to participate in its elaboration in the Standing Commission on Pharmacy of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, and which will then have to be validated by the holder of the General Directorate of Public Health, etc., etc. There's a transitional period to carry out all that. Well, that's also what the royal decree says, which, as you commit to remembering over and over again, is in force and enforced. Hau dau, bost urteko epea akreditatzeko eta protokolo horiek adotu éta balidatzeko dagokion batzordean eta dagokion prozedurarekin, hain zuzen ére, gaur egun erege-dekretuak exacten duena eta Darpón sailburuak ére berber interpelazioko weretzunean gogorarazi zizuna. Erage-dekretuak ez ditu indargabetu aurreko protokoloak, ez ditu behera utzi, ezta devekatu ere. Review the text and see if it says anything in its derogatory provisions. Because Law 44/2003, on the Ordination of Health Professions, already identifies the criteria for estimating the adequacy of the protocols, and in its article 4 says that in the professional practice "it will tend to the unification of criteria of action", based on "the scientific evidence and the means available and supported in guides and protocols of clinical and care practice". The professional exercise "will be carried out with full technical and scientific autonomy", and "the protocols must be used in an orientation way as a guide for decision-making for all professionals of a team". This law has not been repealed. Therefore, the existing protocols are fully valid and provide full legal certainty to the professionals who are admitted to them. Its application does not imply any risk in terms of civil or criminal liability to which you referred. Decree 38/2012 on Clinical History is also in force. The royal decree has not repealed it. Therefore, Royal Decree 954 is in force; Law 44/2003 on the Ordination of Health Professions is in force; Decree 38/2012 on clinical history is also in force; Royal Legislative Decree 1/2015, approving the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines and Sanitary Products, is in force. Ondorioz, existitzen da, badaukagu oinarri being two arau-multizoa, hain zuzen ére, erege-dekretuak sorrazi two egora tamalgarri honori aurre egiteko. We do not like Article 3.2, but also the actual decree as a whole, because it does not respect our competences and we do not agree that the protocols are valid in Madrid, that the competences must be accredited through training courses, etc. So I say again: We do not agree with this rule, we do not agree with the conduct of the Ministry of Health, and with the procedure he has used. We think the perfect option has been wasted in answering for once the order of nurses in long years, in order to improve the practice of nurses, to penetrate and carry on in the new roles which nurses have to develop.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u55	Finish up, Mr. Sweets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u56	Yeah. Mr. Maneiro, you mentioned the author of the State attorney and you interpreted him. I'd like you to tell me honestly if you've read that letter from the state attorney and see if that interpretation is really sincere. Roncal speech? Yes, it's fine, the initial speech is very good, and I'd say we're almost 100 percent together, but it's hard to understand the cause of this initiative. In fact, we would like to hear also what is the solution Mrs. Roncal proposes, or what solutions she proposes to meet this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u57	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u58	We have no intention of making this discussion a contest between legal interpretations. It's none of our business. In any case, it is for the judges to decide on it. And in conclusion, we confirm what we said at the beginning, and vote for the medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing the answer force, Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u60	Well, Mr Orbegozo, if my speech is correct and appropriate, I do not see the contradiction that you say between it being confusing and not knowing what I am asking for. I think it's been very clear what I'm asking for. What I've always asked for. First, we have asked and supported the counselor in his rejection of the royal decree. And today it was not so much the content of the royal decree, that we have already said that no one likes it, some less than others, but what is happening here now with that royal decree. As has already been asked for the legal report on which the Councillor supports himself to say – it is true that not with my words, but with his – that it can work as it has been doing so far, that is – and now with my words – as if there was no real decree (in his words it is "There is a legal report that supports the continuation of what has been done"), because, very well, we will like to see that legal report. Because, as much as you talk about protocols, there is not a single approved protocol. The protocols have so far been informally agreed and accepted. That is why the Royal Decree says that protocols must be made with a number of components that will form part of the design of these protocols, and once approved they can be put into effect and accepted. So far these protocols were informally accepted protocols, by agreement, by acceptance of both parties to work as a team. The problem is that the royal decree no longer allows for informal work and mutual agreement in teams. That's the problem. And the problem that has moved is directly on the backs of the nurses: Listen, keep doing – with the words of the counselor – because you can, keep doing what you were doing. And what we're saying is that you say the legal report that you can skip the royal decree where you say you shouldn't do that. And Mrs. Roncal doesn't say that, the state attorney said that. The performance of all the functions they had been performing in the field of pharmaceutical policy was a continuing illicit, classified as professional intrusiveness. Tell me that professional intruder is not a crime! I do not know whether the legal report of the adviser will say that, we are anxious to see it. Nor can we accept the rebellion against the royal decree proposed by Bildu. We believe that the rules, all of them, must be complied with. If we do not like them we will try to fight to repeal them, but, of course, we will not miss the fulfillment of the royal decree. I told the councillor on the first day, and I say it now to the lehendakari, that if the councilors had legal capacity to choose which decrees should be complied with and which ones should not, then here we will begin to make a list of petitions about which royal decrees we would like not to comply. With regard to the solution proposed by doctors, a list of medicines in which nurses can intervene is that they do not have legal competence. Doctors will have very interesting criteria, but they have no legal competence to make that listing that will be accepted by both parties. I know they say it's for operation, but I think by operation you can't skip the rules, no matter how operational it is to come working as we have been doing, peacefully, by agreement and working as a team, but that has come to break the royal decree. So there's no higher standard than operationality. And what have we been asking for all the time? That this is the councilman's responsibility in Euskadi. Don't tell me what I'm asking is confusing. I ask the councillor to say how the nurses in Euskadi have to work, and to say it immediately. And let him tell them, in writing, if necessary, personally that they can do the same tasks that they have been doing, that they can immunize in schools as they have been doing so far, that they can immunize children as they have been doing so far. Or is there a need for an individual medical prescription? Tell them! You don't have to tell me. He didn't tell you! Don't you say you've just called the nursing addresses? Well, nursing addresses aren't the whole collective. Either I'm wrong and you've just talked to the nursing addresses, or you've talked to the whole group? In short, not by being more repeated will you transform, Mr Orbegozo, a lie in truth. I have it very clearly, the responsibility is with the counselor. The counsellor is responsible to the citizens in Euskadi and to the nurses, who are the ones who have to perform certain tasks, and it is up to him to assure them that they can do so legally. Of course, with that legal report, not because he is supposed to say it, or tell the nursing schools to do the favor of not intervening, that in Osakidetza they alone send them, as has happened. Like it happened! Is that an appropriate and legal practice? Tell the nurses! Tell the nurses, who are also listening to you, the same as the doctors. Let's see if what we have to do is call the nursing school and say, "Don't get into Osakidetza, which is ours." Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u62	Mrs. Roncal, we don't raise a rebellion. What we can't allow is for a decree to be implemented, which is the only thing that it does is to create problems, problems and more problems. It's contradictory what he's asking! In other words, he proposes to fulfil a decree, a decree which has only caused us trouble. No one agrees. Besides, this decree attacks against the rights of our health system, and also violates our rights. So, where are we supposed to be looking at, the Madrid or the EAE society? Well, we must be looking at the people of EAE in this case of health professionals and such matters as these. And it seems to me that the discussion we are involved in here does not lead us to anything. It's not our duty to create collisions between the collective members of the Osar as a member of the public health system. We're not here for that, we're not here for that. We're here to settle our problems, and what we can't do is, if we don't agree, take the interest that these two collectives and two collectives can have, no. We must look for the middle-class ones, and probably we won't agree, others won't agree, and no one will be happy. But what is clear is that this decree has created a problem for us. So, what are we gonna do? The problem is to fix and take care of it, but we can't do it, Mr. Darpón, and leave it to the nurses. The government has to take it, and, if you like, we're ready to share that responsibility. But what you can't do is leave them helpless in front of this Intromission in Madrid, in front of this exposure. So let's get the means together, let's go over to the means and spell it out, 'cause here's a problem, there's a problem, there's a nervous problem and the nurses are worried about their everyday praxy. And this doesn't just touch Osar. This toucheth the members of Osa, as well as the several external areas: social services, homes, domestic services, and so on. Then we could continue here discussing an entire gathering and another gathering and another round the subject, but how many clinical practices are going to take place in Osa-so long as we're here discussing it? Thousands, thousands, and in the meantime we have a problem, and these professionals, these people, are in trouble. Then it seems to me that we ought to make a solution. We have a minimum, we have a deal, February 4. Well, the next step, let's go over it, and let's go, like some nurses, or doctors, to take a personal interest in the size of the table. (There may be a law, there may be a decree... and let us here defend our rights and our rights. Because I don't know what's going to happen in Madrid! Who knows what's going to happen in Madrid? And in the meantime we can't wait, because what we have is us and I think we'll have to find a solution to this as soon as possible. And we, as I have said in the first round, have stretched out our hand to take one more step at this moment, to accept the legal intermediate character which ought to be admitted, and to give a minimum of protection to the medical professions of health. And I think that's where... "Well, on the board, both in the appearance of one and the other, they sat down on a table of various proportions, with which we may be able to accept something useful which really will deal with our problem, because it is clear that otherwise we will follow this debate and that it will lead us nowhere. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I agree with Mrs Roncal when she says in her speech that we are talking here about the situation generated and created after the adoption of a real decree-law with a specific regulation, but I go further: to the difficulties of adapting to the new regulation in force, which can happen, I believe that here the issue has been exacerbated by the attitude of the Health Department itself. Therefore, I believe that it has gone further, I believe that confusion, insecurity and uncertainty have been added where there should have been no confusion, and above all confusion, uncertainty and instability has been generated in a specific group such as the nursing collective, after the adoption of this decree, with the statements and communications, with which the councillor has finally arrived, that it will continue to function, that what was being done as if nothing had happened, and that the approval of a real decree-law that has a specific content and that must be complied with has been obviated. To us, of course, this attitude seems absolutely incomprehensible, especially because it is putting in a very delicate situation not only the nursing group, but the very dynamics of the functioning of Osakidetza itself and the care process itself, and in this sense we call for a correction. That is why we ask the Basque Government to abide by the strict observance of the Royal Decree-Law, because it is the one that is in force. And that it refrain, as it said, from taking any action or performing any action aimed at the nursing group of Osakidetza carrying out actions that may involve the violation of legality and incur the commission of illicits that may give their corresponding personal responsibilities. I think that is what has to come out of today's debate, if we really want to give a little peace and quiet, where an absolutely confusing situation has been generated, uncertainty, by certain actions of the department that I understand are not at all justified.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u65	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Blueberry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u66	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Roncal, I'm telling you again: it seems, after listening to what you say, that the worse your situation is, the better. Your speech is not a confessional, I wasn't there, I told you that you're asking for an interpenetration and a motive for understanding that it's obscure and difficult. Mrs. Ubera has also explained why. It's very difficult to understand. And it gives us an attention to insisting on this subject, and this fiction, most of all, which has appeared to the chief physician of the Medical Department, gives really attention to it. We're getting a lot of attention from your obsession with hurling into the wound, trying to make wood from the fallen tree. Jaurlaritzak betetzen of the law, tokatzen zion bezala. Gustatu edo ez gustatu, tokatzen zaion bezala, betetzen ari da law. But the royal decree says what it says, and it speaks and establishes a transitional period to approve and validate protocols and clinical practices. And it does not repeal existing ones under the law in force. I don't repeal them. I don't repeal them. Look at it in the text, see if you find any provision derogating from the existing so far. Don't mix grills with merinas. The General Council of Nursing Colleges submitted its appeal and also requested the suspension of the Royal Decree. I'm not going to be a state attorney's advocate or a judge, because I'm not, but neither are you. But I have read his writing, and I recommend that you read again on page 17 what he says. It speaks, in any case, that, if the assertions made by the recurrent corporation about the performance are true, that in that case it would be unlawful. If they are true, he speaks on parole at all times. That is, it says that if there has been a prescription by nurses without complying with the law (it refers more specifically, for example, to the drug law regarding protocols, etc.), that that would be illegal, that would be a criminal offence, that would be carrying out an activity of intrusiveness. But he himself questions the description of nursing practice, which the General Council of Colleges describes as usual. He puts it in question himself. But I have already told you, I am not who to interpret your writing, just as you are not either. But the state attorney also states that the royal decree does not establish the protocols, but that they must be agreed and validated (and we refer again to the transitional period of five years), implying that the existing protocols remain in force, provided that they comply with the law, when the royal decree itself comes into force. Precisely what we have been defending and what the Health Advisor has been defending. In any case, if in this autonomous community or in any other such criminal situations are being committed, as you point out, ia hiru hilabete passe direnean, dagoeneko ia hiru hilabete passe direnean, ez duzu pentsatzen milaka salaketa egongo zirela, ikusita zenbat akto sanitaria egiten diren egunero osakidetzako zentroetan? Zenbat daude? Ezagutzen duguy bat? We continue to believe that there are sufficient legal resources to continue to provide good service, with quality and safety for patients and patients, and also with legal certainty for professionals and professionals. We believe that a great opportunity has been missed to improve health services, to put value on the teamwork of professionals, doctors and nurses, and to advance in the new roles that the latter group should be developing. It's hard for us to believe that you don't agree with it, even though you're making it difficult for us to see such enterprises as today, so we'll take advantage of the middle-way, and we hope to protect the other teams, because it would be really surprising in February, a few weeks ago, to resist the almost complete agreement. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the original text of Mrs. Roncal Azanza's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 16; counters, 58; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u68	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the middle-term correction of EH and Eubertarian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrary, 26; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u69	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by Gloria Sánchez Martin, by the parliamentary members of the Basque Sociialists, concerning the general administrative plan of equality in the Eska Autonomy Estribe. Discipline and final resolution. The next time the proposal is made, the group's turn is made. Mrs. Sánchez, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u70	Thank you very much, President. My parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, today brings to this plenary this motion as a result of the call made to the Councillor for Public Administration and Justice, Mr Erkoreka, in the plenary session last 4 March. The impetus for the start of the procedure for drawing up and approving the first equality plan for women and men in the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community has been achieved thanks to the commitment of my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, and I have made this clear in my speech to the previous plenary. As a background, I would like to point out that a non-legislative proposal, presented by my parliamentary group to the Commission on Human Rights, Equality and Citizen Participation, was already adopted on 27 October 2014, where a compromise amendment signed by my parliamentary group, Basque Socialists, with the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque People, was approved, and was also supported by the EH Bildu group and UPyD. In other words, it was supported by all the parliamentary groups. In the first paragraph of that compromise amendment, the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to speed up the process of drafting and negotiating with the trade union sections of the equality plan of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in order to have it completed as soon as possible. This early possibility was reflected by the Basque Government on 4 December 2014 in a timetable for the development of this plan, which was expected to start in January 2015 and should be completed in September 2016. In other words, the process of elaboration until its final conclusion would last almost two years. And to avoid further delay in time is why today's motion is presented, and it is requested that the Basque Parliament urge the Basque Government to speed up the procedures in the process of drafting and negotiating with the trade union sections regarding the diagnosis of the situation of this equality plan of the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community, in order to have completed the plan definitively already by 31 September 2016. We wanted a date of completion to be recorded and agreed, and we also want it to coincide with the one provided for in the first timetable drawn up by the Basque Government itself. No amendments have been tabled to this motion as a whole, so I hope that, just as we adopted the non-unanimous motion for a law today, we will adopt this motion in this plenary also unanimously. At the appearance of the Public Administration and Justice Adviser on 4 December 2014, he indicated that this deadline seemed to us to be very long for the development of this plan, and this could be due to the fact that a small number of people were going to participate in it. But at least the least that can be asked of the Government is that the timetable set by the Basque Government itself be met. This has not been done so far; there is a great deal of delay with regard to the dates set out in that timetable drawn up on 4 December 2014 and agreed at the sectoral table. The proposal initially submitted more than a year ago marked four stages in its preparation. A first phase of communication of the commitment of the Deputy Public Service Adviser to the elaboration of the plan for the equality of women and men in the General Administration. A second phase of the preparation of the prior diagnosis of the situation of the working conditions of the staff in the service of the General Administration from a gender perspective, where the establishment of the technical commission of equals was to be carried out, the creation of the working group composed of four persons attached to the Directorate of Public Service, the determination of the information that was necessary, and the collection of that information, in order to be able to draw up at the end this prior diagnosis of the situation of the working conditions of the staff in the service of the General Administration. And, once that draft has been drawn up, this diagnosis should be validated by the technical committee to draw up the first equality plan, and thus move to a third phase, that of drawing up the draft equality plan, and a fourth phase of negotiation of it. The preparation of this diagnosis is essential in order to be able to then draw up this equality plan, and it is also mandatory, in accordance with article 46 of the Act of 22 March 2007 on the effective equality of men and women. I agree that this collection of information, as Mr Erkoreka said in the previous plenary, takes time, but time, already marked within the timetable, seems (we thought) sufficient. The second phase of this process is not yet complete. On 2 March, two days before our inquiry in plenary on 4 March, on the elaboration of the equality plan, the draft diagnosis of the situation, was made available from the Civil Service. We are now, therefore, at the stage of submitting allegations and validating the final text in the technical committee. According to the new timetable prepared unilaterally this time by the Council of Public Administration and Justice, without passing through the sectoral table, and presented together with the draft diagnosis to the unions, you plan to complete this phase between 11 and 18 March. I mean, this phase would be over tomorrow. According to the timetable approved at the sectoral table and accepted by the adviser, Mr Erkoreka, initially, the prior diagnosis should have been completed by September 2015 at the latest, and the start of the drafting of the equality plan should already have begun to progress in the fourth quarter of 2015 and concluded before the end of March 2016. It's not like that. We have been seven months late already on the date foreseen in the initial timetable. You have reactivated your drafting thanks to the question raised by my parliamentary group on 4 March. Take it seriously once and for all, for its elaboration is of great importance and remains, at this point, an outstanding subject for the General Administration in our autonomous community, when it is supposed that precisely this administration should set an example to others. But now they want to do in two months what they wanted to do in the first calendar in nine months. I have my doubts that the result can be the same. Let us now discuss the third phase of the process. Once the preparation and prior diagnosis had been completed, the phase of the first equality plan and its contrast phase was expected to last nine months. This plan must propose evaluable actions to check whether the objective of initial equality is achieved, and must have a vocation of permanence over time. At this stage, the draft equality plan must be drawn up, and then moved on to the contrasting phase of the plan. What is this phase of contrast? This draft of the contrasting plan should be forwarded to the Interdepartmental Commission for Equality of Women and Men, to the interdepartmental technical group, to the equality units of each department, as well as to the entire staff, for comments and considerations they consider relevant. If you want to forward – according to your new schedule made available on 2 March this year – the first draft of the equality plan for 15 April, on 22 April you want to approve the draft in a technical committee, and carry out the entire contrast phase from 25 to 28 April, will you explain to me how you are going to ask the committee, the interdepartmental group, all the equality units in each department and all the staff in just four days? It's impossible, at least for us, and of course it sounds a bit like a firecracker. We will entrust ourselves to San Prudencio, to see if he does a miracle, because, as the completion phase is planned for April 28, then, perhaps so we have. This phase was foreseen in the timetable drawn up on 4 December, which would last three months. Try to shorten these deadlines, but as much as reducing them from three months to four days, no. Unless what you want is to give an appearance that you are going to contrast something but that you are really not going to contrast anything, and what you want is to approve the elaborate draft as you have made it. Let's be serious. Let us act correctly, and let us not make negotiation and worker participation a quimera. That is the cry of the unions in this legislature: in every coming thing they realize that there is no real negotiation at all. Let us develop and contrast the plan as God commands, with the real and effective participation of those who are to intervene, and counting on the opinions that are provided. From now to September there is time to elaborate and negotiate it. Once again and seriously encourage the preparation of the first equality plan of the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community and negotiate its final approval in a real and effective way. And it is no excuse, as Mr Erkoreka pointed out in the plenary on 4 March, that training sessions were held to justify the delay, because that was an obligation to be fulfilled, which was already reflected in the compromise amendment adopted in October 2014, on 27 October, but which does not have to prevent working in parallel. The training can be carried out, and the timetable set from the beginning can be fulfilled. You will take a long time to draw up the first equality plan for women and men in the Basque Autonomous Community for the general administration, hopefully four years. I mean, a whole legislature. This seems unfortunate to us. Show once that the Basque Government has a genuine commitment to the equality of women and men. One of the issues addressed in equality plans is the reconciliation of work and family life. They bet on drawing up the equality plan in the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community, but this will only be a facade if it is not accompanied by a search and a real stake in reconciling work and family life. They are now proposing to the unions, right now, as they transfer us to us, conciliation measures that worsen those they had so far, according to their manifestations. Is this really betting on equality? I don't think so. That is why I ask all groups to vote in favour of the initiative we are presenting here today. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u71	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Passing the teams, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u72	Yes, thank you very much, President. Chapter III of Law 3/2007 on the effective equality of women and men, and more specifically article 45 thereof, sets out the mandatory nature of the elaboration of equality plans in enterprises with more than 250 workers, as well as the obligation to negotiate such plans. Similarly, it is clearly reflected in the eighth additional provision of Act No. 7/2007 of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee: "Public administrations are obliged to respect equal treatment and opportunities in the workplace and, to this end, must take measures to prevent any form of labour discrimination between women and men. Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, public administrations shall draw up and implement an equality plan to be developed in the collective agreement or working conditions agreement of the official staff which is applicable, in the terms provided for therein." Article 73 of Title IX of Decree 83/2010 of 9 March, approving the Agreement on the Conditions of Work of Officials in the Service of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and its Autonomous Bodies, states: "Development of an Equality Plan within the General Administration of the EAC, as provided for in Article 46 of the Equality Act, during the period of validity of the Agreement. Work will be carried out on diagnosis, analysis, and the setting of objectives, strategies, practices and the establishment of monitoring and evaluation systems." In other words, the legal obligation to approve a negotiated equality plan for the Basque public administration is clear, as has been perfectly explained. This is, therefore, obvious, and there is no doubt. The problem is, as always, the delay in the implementation by this Government of issues that it does not seem to consider priorities. By the way, this Government, and the previous Government. Although progress has been made, not enough has been made, or at least at the desirable and necessary pace to meet the deadlines set with a sufficient level of quality. On the one hand we have the adviser, who claims that the work has slowed down to improve the quality of the diagnosis, and that it has not been on his proposal, somehow throwing balloons out. On the other hand, there is the argument of the proposer, which shows her concern, since it is not only that after fifteen months the second phase of the diagnostic process has not been completed, or has been very recently completed, but that the new timetable presented just a few days ago presents a work plan that aims, in fact, as has been explained, to carry out in two months what was originally planned to be carried out in nine months. We are most concerned about this issue. We consider this plan a priority, because since UPyD we do not want this plan, like so many others, to remain on wet paper, but as soon as possible include measures that are effective for the equality of women and men, and that it is perfectly studied and argued and, after all the work to be done, we have the best possible plan. These plans are not simply measures contained in a document that are then left in a drawer. They can mean substantial changes in the lives of workers. They can affect their salaries, the leave to care for their families, the reconciliation of personal and family life, and, of course, equality between women and men. I mean, we're talking about important things. It is true that a quality diagnostic report is essential for the realization of a good plan, just as the negotiation process facilitates the design and implementation of the plan. But this cannot be an excuse to justify the delay in drawing up the equality plan. That is why we support the initiative put forward by the Socialist Group to speed up the preparation of the plan to the extent possible and without, of course, affecting the quality of the plan. This plan should have been approved long ago. We still don't have it, and it's about as soon as we can have it. The responsibility for not having this plan in place is possibly the responsibility of several Governments. Finally, what we hope is that this plan can be approved as soon as possible. Mr Erkoreka, with the dialectic skill that characterizes him, presented the perfect excuse, based on the fact that the deadlines have been extended at the initiative of the technical commission to improve the diagnosis and to carry out surveys that allow a subsequent design of the plan and that it is of higher quality. Well, it may be an excuse used at a given time, but I don't think it can be a reason enough for us to postpone the elaboration and implementation of this equality plan. I think we all share the same idea, I think we all share the same aims, no amendments have been tabled, and I therefore imagine that this initiative will be adopted unanimously. It is a correct motion, except in the error it contains: September is not thirty-one days old, but thirty days old. That was the only reason that made us think about the possibility of submitting an amendment. Finally, we did not, and we approved the Socialist initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u73	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Madame Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u74	Yeah, it's on. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. My group will logically support the motion. Mrs Sánchez, you are right and do well to place this government back, to urge it to move forward with this equality plan, because time is running out, time is running out, the legislature is coming to an end, and we do not yet have it. In his day we also support the non-law proposition. I think it was one of my first votes as a Member of Parliament when I came to this House. And strictly speaking, as Mr Erkoreka said last week, the non-law proposal has not been breached. The only thing, the interpretation. Because the first point spoke of carrying it out as soon as possible, but it did not specify what is called "shortness". Clearly, we do not all have the same concept of time. Secondly, of course, when that plan was approved, future budgets had to allocate budget lines to implement it. That is why I fear there will be no occasion, with which it will not fail, nor will it cease to fail. Finally, there is the issue of training, which has already taken place. It is then true that the non-legislative proposal adopted in October 2014 has not been breached, but, even if that non-legislative proposal did not exist and even if there was not this motion that is going to come forward today, the case is that the Basque Government and the councillor have a legal obligation to make this equality plan of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community. Mrs Sánchez and Mr Maneiro have already dedicated themselves to reminding us once again of the whole legal framework that makes this order compulsory, and you almost seemed generous with the deadlines. What is happening is that he was not in the mood to amend his motion, but, bearing in mind that by that date it is likely that this Parliament will be dissolved, it is a pity that we will not have the opportunity to know the plan, even if it is in compliance with the motion that we adopt today. Of course, beyond approving the motion that you put before us, it is up to us to wait for the plan to be presented. To this parliamentarian, when the councillor appeared in the commission, which was also very profuse in explanations of all kinds, from the legal preamble to know the intrahistory of how the equality laws were carried forward, to the entire timetable... , the impression one took after the appearance is that this plan is going to be made, yes or yes. And with that I stayed at that appearance, I think it was the impression that it conveyed to all parliamentarians. But already in the answer to her question, to the question put to her by Mrs Sánchez, what I believe is that it was almost justified, and somehow it did not meet the expectations she created in that committee. What I see here is a logical impatience on the part of all, and especially of the Socialist Group, which has taken the initiatives in this area. And that also understands this Socialist Group that the Basque Government and you yourself are putting the piles at the mercy of parliamentary initiative. And some of that other reason at least seems to be giving it to him to think about. I also see a communication problem, because careful that they have spread to explain to us the whole procedure, the whole functioning, all phases, and yet here we are debating this motion and having to approve it again! The case, I insist, is that time is pressing. I would already say to you, Mr Councilman, that you do not have a legal obligation; that I see you already surrounded by so much parliamentary initiative on the part of the Socialist Group, and that, although you had no choice but to make the plan yes or yes, I think it is important that you bring it to this House as soon as possible and that we can count on it, because it is an important tool and because I believe that a legislature is more than enough time to be able to draft it and to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u76	Good noon, everyone. Today we will discuss the equality of General Public Administration in Basque Autonomia in Erdi. It's a very important proposition for us. This is a proposition that we share, and we think it's very appropriate. I will not repeat it, but there must be some precise points in regard to this subject. This equality plan, as has been said here by the people who preceded me in speaking, had to be approved. It had to be approved as early as 2007, when the Basque Government had signed an agreement regulating the working conditions of civil servants, but it was also necessary to have been ratified in 2010, when the employment commitments arising from the working conditions agreements and collective agreements of the General Administration of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa were acquired. Sure, what do we say with this? That two different political formations, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which have had responsibilities in this government, have not fulfilled this obligation, with this legislative mandate. But not only that, but also the Equality Act itself, as has already been said here, establishes the obligation to carry out this plan, in article 40. Of course, this plan is late, but it's necessary, and that's where we have to focus. The second phase of the elaboration of the same, which has been, I believe, the key to everything and is the most important part for this group, which is the diagnosis, that X-ray that has to be made of the working conditions of the workers of the General Administration of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, in this sense, the counselor said that there were 145 prepared diagnostic leaflets, if I am not ill... 145 folios. I am indeed very curious to know this report, because at first these gender impact assessments of the Basque Government's budgets bring data from the General Administration of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and give us demolishing figures. Of course, we are talking about that the Basque Government's staff assumes that 70% are women, but in addition to the lower ranks, the lower ranks, in 81% of the cases are women's; the two highest ranks we are talking about that in 70% of the cases are women's. Of course, we are talking about that the wage gap is still 30%. These are official figures, which are attached to the budgets. Moreover, let us not forget that the workers of the Administration are the most precarious and also the ones who have suffered the most cuts: health, education, the fundamental services that we have to have guaranteed and of the highest quality, and they have had a greater number of situations of cuts and precariousness. Of course, this leads us to think, and together with what the trade union representative put to us in the committee when he was referring, on the one hand, to this mantra, which is real, of precariousness in the public administration, he referred to a very important issue, and it is the need to negotiate this plan. The need to negotiate this plan, because it is expressed on previous occasions, with plans such as that of Lanbide, for example, that there was no negotiation on this matter, was approved directly without any kind of negotiation, and so they have the plan they have, which is not developed, is not carried out, and there is no kind of identity with that plan. This trade union representative made more reference to the many shortcomings raised by the Administration itself. A key element is training, with a great deal of emphasis on training. Sure, what's up? That this trade union representative was referring to a personal situation around this issue. We are talking about the trade union representative for the equality plan of the General Administration of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. She referred to the training, fundamental training, continuous; that she, for example, as a Lanbide technique and tutor in this case of macho violence, of victims of macho violence, did not have any training in this regard. There was only one protocol hung on the intranet that, according to his own words, was faracious and obsolete. That is to say, no special treatment, as they have to guarantee laws such as the general Basque law, such as the Equality Act itself, of continuing training for women workers in the Administration. And there are other issues that come to our mind when this proposal comes up. We are talking about public procurement, and in this respect it must be said that a popular legislative initiative proposed by the ELA union on social clauses in public procurement has been rejected by this House. A proposal that contained a very important paragraph, a proposal that we added as an amendment, and it is precisely the working conditions of women workers in this sector, which, as we have said, are absolutely regrettable and are in a very precarious situation. Mrs Sánchez also referred to conciliation, and we do share that need. But, of course, what's going on? This need is shared, but when proposals are brought precisely for a pilot project in a department of the Public Administration, to carry it out, for an equal and non-transferable paternity and/or maternity permit for a period of six months, as a pilot proposal to advance precisely in conciliation and therefore in co-responsibility, they are not approved. And, of course, indeed, the proposals or facts are demonstrated whether or not they are being carried out. Of course, we're talking about equality plans. Equality plans are fundamental, but equality plans do not guarantee that the Administration will be completely equal. A lot of equality plans, and we know it, are in a drawer. They are in a drawer, and serve for private or public enterprise to legitimize and argue that it is advancing in terms of equality. But if they do not develop, if they do not put material and economic and human means, of course little will be done. And what's the basis of this? In the political will. And in this sense we do say, Mr Erkoreka, Cristina Uriarte, because after all it is department of the entire Administration, and I would have liked Mr Urkullu to have been too, I ask you for the compromise. Because I have no doubt that this plan is going to be drawn up, but there has to be a clear commitment as a starting point – what the trade union centres are asking for – and that it be negotiated, that it be a plan that is identified with all the trade union organisations, and that it be a plan that is fully developed. Because let's say this plan is the umbrella on which certain equality plans are then rotated in each department of the Basque Government. Compliance, compliance is all we ask. We have had the battle so far, during this time – in the good sense of the word – for this plan to be drawn up, for it to be carried out, and we will also now approve a proposal to be made in the shortest possible time, but of course we do not care as much about time as when this plan really comes with the support of this Government and is carried out, is carried out, because the staff of the General Administration of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa need it. It is the most precarious sector and the sector in which we have to put the most emphasis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. You've been very good at it, Mrs. Sánchez, to count everything upside down and turn it around. You lied, you know. You forgot your importance. was it a coincidence? I don't think so. Deals are unanimous throughout the whole process, unanimously. Terms, procedures, calendars, meetings, content, agreements have been unanimously accepted, and it has also accepted syndicate differences. From the Socialist Group, the equality of General Administration demands the ease of presenting the diagnosis of Plan. In the Fourth of March, very recently, the chairman of the Precincts gave clear and accurate explanations on this subject. But the amendment has been introduced. We know that the diagnosis of the planet equality has been in a good rhythm, but in the next few weeks such absurd amendments will be received, and that you will bring us to meetings to waste our time. Yeah, losing time. I will not be what I take from this subject, quite contrary; but what is not necessary is not, and what is out of place and time is out of place and time. I believe that an example of general administration must be the example of example, and even of equality. A part of society, alas, thinks that equality between women and men is acquired, and another part of it is of no importance to it, alas, even. It's a good thing we're still working for equality and we want to keep going! The road is long and the challenge belongs to the whole society. Like a woman, like the mother of two little girls and as a political representative, I'll do everything I can to keep working for equality, if it's better than ever. But we who are so susceptible of this subject, and give it its importance and place, know that time is required, and that the way is full of difficulties. We should go much faster, we should use less effort to accomplish it, but reality is everything, and although many steps have been taken, they are not enough yet. This path is often frustrating. General administration must cultivate equality in a transvestial manner, and all areas must have the same sensibility and insensibility, so that it must be a high degree of explanation if the results are to be achieved. The work of the day is often enough to go on, but if we want it to go on, if we want it to be really effective, the effort is necessary and the equality is necessary, because we are all the general administration and the model of society. As I said, the General Administration is and must be an example of equality. We cannot forget that it is a fundamental right with which we are born, but as we progress in life sadly on many occasions it is waning. Equality is not a privilege, it is a right that exists in theory, but that in practice shines for its absence in many areas, though not in all, fortunately. This Government has worked, works and will continue to work to ensure that the goal that is before us today is a complete reality. However, we believe that this motion we are dealing with today is not necessary, because the explanations that have been given more than once and twice are clear and concrete. On the one hand, it takes time for us to be able to deal with other issues that are probably not as advanced and studied as this one, but on the other hand, and by seeing the positive and useful side of this motion, it gives us the opportunity to re-explain how this equality plan is, to re-explain how the diagnosis is, an essential phase and extremely necessary and essential in order to be able to draw up the plan. Understanding that we are already in pre-election time, and hence the reason for this motion, we again explain the details of this process once again. It is necessary to clarify that if the diagnostic phase is extended it is not because it has not been worked and is not working, or has been worked and is working at a very slow pace. Nothing further from reality. This phase is fundamental, and a great deal of information has been worked on, information that needs to be studied, that needs to be thoroughly analysed, conclusions drawn, realities seen, needs seen, gaps and problems detected. And when all this information – which, as I have said, is much – has been analysed in detail, we are working to develop the best possible equality plan for the General Administration; a real, practical, consensual, valued and, most importantly, applicable and effective plan. A real and achievable plan. All this information enriches the diagnosis and the subsequent plan, but makes this phase need more time for nothing to escape, and have a good document. The work programme was agreed with the trade union representation of the General Administration and its autonomous bodies. A technical commission is established as a joint collegiate body, in which there is representation of the Administration and trade union representation. The technical commission is responsible for validating all the actions that the working group is carrying out during the process of drawing up the first plan. This group has technical advice from the Equality Administrative Unit of the Department of Public Administration and Emakunde. All staff are informed by intranet, as well as by e-mail. The technical committee has held the following meetings. It is set up on 17 February 2015; the regulations are adopted on 24 February and communication activities are carried out; a participatory process on equality issues is set up for the whole staff; information posters are placed in the work centres. On 3 March the task of the working group begins with the data necessary for the preparation of the diagnosis; on 27 March the planned indicators for obtaining information are agreed. Work continues on successive technical commissions, and Emakunde offers the committee and the working group a training programme aimed at facilitating the development of a diagnosis and a subsequent plan. Training has a dual objective: the first, to raise awareness on equal terms of women and men, and the second, to provide tools for the elaboration and interpretation of the diagnosis and equality plan. The methodology used is for training-action. Let us not forget that the first step is to have a good and complete diagnosis, to then know how to interpret it and to be able to translate it into a practical and effective plan. The draft of the diagnosis is presented to the technical committee on 11 March this year. It is a very extensive document, so we must define it and outline it in accordance with the contributions and suggestions of the same committee. A new Chronogram or calendar is supported; there are meetings, actions, and duties specified. During May negotiations will be completed. If this stage of the Diagnostic has been prolonged, it is because it has been necessary, and because those who participate in this process have seen it necessary. Work's done and it's doing it. We have an excellent basis for making an effective and complete plan in our hands. The deadlines will be completed, so this motion we're discussing today is not necessary. I repeat, however, that the time will come, and that, above all, the results are good and wide, and that we have them to continue our work. The timetable for completing the implementation of the first plan for the equality of women and men in the General Administration and its autonomous bodies is as follows. On 11 March, the meeting of the Technical Committee on Equality was held for the analysis and clarification of the first draft. On 18 March (morning) the second draft shall be sent by e-mail to the Technical Committee on Equality with any modifications deemed appropriate. The proposed corrective measures according to the diagnosis shall also be forwarded. The technical committee for the approval of the draft final diagnosis will meet on 8 April and the proposed measures will be analysed. The first draft of the plan will be forwarded on 15 April. The technical committee will meet on 22nd of the same month to approve the draft of the first plan, and on 25 April the process of internal and final contrast of the draft will be carried out within the working group. The technical equality commission will meet on 29 April for the final validation of the first plan to send it to the negotiating table. (Some of these dates may vary by the feast of Saint Prudence. ) And during the month of May this plan will be negotiated. Therefore, in view of everything that has been said here, it is quite clear that work has been done and is still being done. The plan will be ahead of September 31. Here it was said that September 30 days ago, and I'm sure, even though one day less for work, the deadlines will be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Passing on the answers, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u80	Well, Judge, I too am a labour inspector and mother of two daughters, and I also attach great importance to equality and the elaboration of this equality plan, exactly as you do. The truth is that it is, and we have put all the parliamentary groups on the table: you are the only ones who are wasting the time of others, and, in addition, of the calendar that you raised at first you have lost seven months. I made that clear in my first speech. Who's the one who's wasting time here? You; not us for coming here to remind you that you have to comply with your obligations. And since, in the compromise amendment that we adopted on 27 October, the timetable was not yet drawn up at that time, and within the timetable, which was drawn up a posteriori on 4 December 2014, some deadlines have already been set and you are going to skip all the deadlines to the toaster, we thought it appropriate, that it was good to bring this issue back here with this motion and to raise a deadline for the end, because, if not, you take the matter of "as soon as possible" as you sleep the dream of the righteous and we will see when the issue ends. So, as the calendar was subsequent to that non-law proposal, we thought it appropriate to make it coincide with the date that you yourselves set, which was at the end of September. According to there's been a mistake, it's jumped from zero to one. On September 30, I don't care, but I don't care if you meet the deadline that you have set for yourself, which is the least you are asking for here. And let them do it in a correct way, that is, do the contrast phase well. You took this first plan to the sectoral table, but this second that you presented on March 2 you have done it unilaterally, without going to the sectoral table, and that is a fact. And you accompanied him on March 2nd at three o'clock in the afternoon, to the unions, with the draft of the diagnosis that had just been completed. That is also another reality. And on top of that they have made an incredible speed here, which I have explained much more clearly in my first intervention and I am not going to extend, but it is a laugh that from 25 to 28 (four days) they want me to do the whole phase of contrast, having to ask in four days up to the entire staff, all units of equality, etc., etc., to all those I have already said before that had to be asked at that stage. Man, let's be serious! Let's do things right! You've made a rush and run because you had to get out of the way, and you've made a reduction here that's a little ridiculous. Do it well, negotiate it well, and do the contrast phase well, so that the first equality plan of the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community is a good plan, not a piece of crap made fast and running. And, above all... The draft I make of the diagnosis, quick, come on, the allegations in two seconds. The plan, I make the draft and come, the contrasts in four days, and come out, I get my plan just like I want. No, man, no! We are going to do this in a serious way, and we are going to make real and effective participation with the workers and with the representation of the workers, which is what is being said here. And, as I attach importance to a good elaboration of the equality plan, it is that we have time until September! And I didn't want to cut that deadline because I wanted to make it match at least what you said. Well, and anyway, Mrs Ruíz, I don't know when the elections will be called, that's up to this government, but, even if the elections were called, as you well know, the governments are still in office and can continue to work. Then, by September, they can continue to work perfectly in the government with the trade union representation and the technical committee to continue working and draw up the equality plan and to have it completed before the end of September. But please do it well, because, as has also been said, it is the first equality plan of the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community and will serve as a model for others. You are the General Administration of the Basque Government and will serve as a model for other administrations. Do it right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u81	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. My missile shouldn't say a word. The representative of the American Basque Group must not speak a word... The representative of the EH Group must not speak a word. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u82	Thank you. Mrs. Sánchez, you complain about everything. If we dilate in the diagnosis, he complains; if we run, he complains. I say again that the stage of diagnosis is fundamental, the information obtained is very broad; therefore, the pace of work is appropriate to that amount of information. And I remind you again that we have not made our plan: it is a consensus plan, unanimously, a consensus process. The Vice-Adviser of the Civil Service and Justice maintains its commitment to each and every one of its areas of competence, its commitment to establish and develop policies integrating equal treatment and opportunities for women and men in the General Administration of the Autonomous Community, and its commitment to promote and encourage the implementation of the necessary measures to achieve real equality within the organization. It works and will work with the goal of turning equality into a strategic principle of its corporate and human resources policy. In addition, all staff are fully informed of the different decisions and measures that have been taken and will be taken during this process. The work plan for the development of this first plan was agreed between the Administration and the trade union representation. There has been talk of all the meetings of the technical committee that have minutes, but there have also been numerous meetings of the working group, working groups made up of different people according to the subject to be discussed, which these meetings do not have minutes. Therefore, the rhythm of work has been constant, without interruptions; a rhythm of work appropriate to the workload, worth redundancy. The unanimity in the decisions and agreements reached has been a constant one. The unions agree. Unanimity in the process and in the results. The diagnosis is complete, and it has a lot of information, information that needs to be profiled and that needs to be summarized, of course, but that is going to be stored. We are going to vote in favour of this motion, which is not right for us, because this process of drawing up the equality plan has had a steady and continuous pace of work, as I have already said. Whoever filed this motion knows, he knows. And our vote in favour is not because their approach is right, but because the deadlines are going to be met. And, of course, we will continue to work for and to achieve equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mrs. Sánchez Martín's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u84	Original text has been unanimously accepted. Time Honetan eteten had 15:30ak art. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-six. The meeting resumed at three-thirty in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u85	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "Pull up the other bill of legislation for creating the Earth for the Economical Activity, and for the planning of the Great Skippers around the verdict of many Plan-LAP regulations in the Arlo. Discipline and final resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u86	Good afternoon, everyone. The Supreme Court was suspended by a verdict given on the 3rd of September 2015, in the creation of the Earth for the Economical Activity, and the various regulations of the Planet of the World of the Saltland, in order to arrange the Great Ones, were reduced or restricted to the liberty of the co-ordination of the great shops. Epaitegiaren aburuz, LAP edo PTS honek europar zein Statueren arautegia urratzen zituen, hain zuzen ére, Europar Parlamentu eta Kontseiluaren 163/2006ko zuzentaraua eta 17/2009 Legea. Epaiak bere bigarren puntuan horrela esaten zuen, hitzez hitz: "We must declare and declare null and void, because it is contrary to the above mentioned directive and the above mentioned law, the PTS determinations which impose limitations on the maximum surface area for commercial equipment". This may be a questionable judgment. I think LAP or PTS don't break the law. The Supreme Court of the Antemonary was of the same opinion and expressed it in a previous sentence in July 2014. Edozein kasutan, ez ginateke egoera honetan egongo Jaurlaritzak etxeko lanak bete izan balitu. Agian, gorenaren epaia eztabaidagarria da, baia egia da, baita ere, aurretik ez dela lana egin egin behar zen moduan. Eta hori esaten dugu, because, according to the third final provision of the Basque Law 7/2008, second amendment of the Basque Law on Commercial Activity, and I read, in order to bring it into line with the above-mentioned European Directive on services in the internal market, the current Territorial Sectoral Equipment Plan (abbreviated) "should be reviewed within a maximum period of one year from the adoption of this Law, and in any event before 28 December 2009, taking into account the overriding reasons of general interest defined in Article 4.8 of that Directive and taking into account recitals 9 and 40". Therefore, the second amendment to the Basque Commercial Act already understood that there was a gap to be covered, and a lack of compliance with the European legislation to be covered. However, this proposal and this final provision reflected in the law received a refusal by the Basque Government Council in December 2009, which considered the PTS to be sufficiently adapted to European law and which therefore refused to incorporate the amendments mentioned above. And in consequence of this decision, the road ended in the judgment of the lord. We shall not stop now to look at the past, or to the cares of the past. Let's go ahead and look into the problem we've got in hand and see how we can solve that problem. The Unibail company, the owner of the Garbera business, introduced an appeal against the decision that had been said about you, and finally the highest man has succeeded in agreeing with you. Now we know how to manage the difficult situation the court has created. The consequence of this sentence is, that in our Community-Intermania there is no rule which limits the establishment of new machinations of the great surface. We think this is a very serious situation. Undoubtedly there is in us a request for service offered by the bark of this kind, but we must certainly say that this request is satisfied with the offer which is now present. Without control, the multiplication of new implants would lead to serious consequences in the soyconomical degree. We need to respond, and we need to respond quickly. What has been clearly discovered in this affair is one thing; The legislation of the laws of Europe (the legislation of the state) admits that governments have a right to limit the establishment of the trading places of the great surface. The verdict of the Supreme is clear, but of course he fixes certain conditions. As the sentence of the Supreme Court says, it is evident that the reason why LAP's regulation should not be limited, but the argument to reason this limitation. Iraqurtzen had to shoulder: "... the real reasons for imposing these limitations on the surface of commercial equipment are exclusively economic and commercial, and therefore prohibited" (...) Only the limitations "for justified and compelling reasons of general interest, among which, as the Chamber itself recognizes and declares in the judgment under appeal, are those relating to the protection of the environment and the urban environment, including urban and rural planning", are allowed. As noted by a well-known urban planner on the Urbaniker Urbanism blog, "we rely on the doctrine of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which in the case of the PTS of Commercial Equipment of Catalonia interpreted that the technique of identifying maximum dimensions of equipment and site restrictions may be appropriate techniques for the establishment of a certain territorial planning, if these limitations and restrictions are deemed necessary and are proportionate to this end". This is reflected in a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 24 March 2011. Beraz, bidea argi dago. If we agree that it is necessary to put an end to the establishment of new large commercial areas, as I believe a social majority, and of course as the sector itself asks, for example the employer Euskomer, which includes not only representatives of small trade but also representatives of large areas, and which has recently considered in the press conference that the Basque Confederation of Commerce does not see reasonable that there is absolute freedom to open new centres... And these are the ones who refer to this issue in rather diplomatic terms, because if you talk to representatives of other organizations and to basic people in the commercial sector, obviously, in this situation they express a manifest indignation and express themselves in terms, as I said before, far less diplomatic. If we are clear that it is possible and legal, depending on the circumstances of the environmental order and the articulation of the territory, to limit the implantation of new large areas, this is the time to do so, to start doing so and to take steps to ensure that the broken that currently exists in the regulations is fixed, to close the door by which some have already hurried to try to climb. We are not talking about generic threats; a project is already under way to take advantage of this legal vacuum and expand the Garbera shopping centre in Donostia. And I think that the response or attitude to this request for the extension of the Garbera shopping centre in Donostia that some parties have given very well explains the position that through the amendment that they have had sex they are going to present us here today, because it obviously aims to promote this and other hypotheticals in the future. We think this door has to be closed. The door must be closed to new large-surface implants. It is possible and legal, and it is requested by a majority of both the trade sector and, we understand, the citizenry. All we have to do is make the political decision. And that's why today we brought a very specific proposal for that. We brought here a proposal, with three exact requests: In a month's time we were asking you to make a suggestion for the change of the PTS, and in that proposal we asked him to make necessary adaptations, used criteria that allow the legislation to return to the old situation. I mean, we didn't ask for anything that was out of the law, but, as has been more than once mentioned, we asked for the legal tools which are applied to restore to the former state. We were also asking for a specific chromanogram to reach that situation, because we think it's not easy because we know it... The procedure, in this case... sometimes they are complex, sometimes eased in others, but in order to make this decision that the government, the science, the strategy, or the plan of which he was planning, we asked him for a specific chromagram. And we asked him also, as long as this procedure was over, to ask all the municipal institutions not to interfere with the measures or transitions that would collide with the new LAP in the future. And we'd ask him because we're not safe about this thing in his attitude. We're not sure. And we don't trust to see it until we see its precise compromises. In theory, it's just once more occurred to us that he's defending small trade, but unfortunately we can see that his practice isn't often going that way. It's a lot of batzuk beasts. After seven months after the publication of the Supreme's ruling, the Government had not made any public statements, nor had it approached the parliamentary groups in private to explain their assessment and intentions. Seven months. Seven months unanswered. Seven months without facing a very serious problem at the level of spatial planning, at least on a public basis. It had to be a petition from this group that motivated her to finally agree to explain. This Government has also shown plenty of signs of betting on large areas above small trade, and hence its commitment to promote the liberalization of timetables through the creation of areas with a large tourist influx. Moreover, the party's municipal action supporting this government (the PNV) in the main Basque capitals has clearly been in favour of the major shopping centres, both in Bilbao and in Donostia, with a large number of initiatives favorable to the big ones in the sector and unfavourable to the small ones. So what we were asking for was to clear our doubts and know clearly what the government was planning to do. And that would be the easiest way of doing that, to repeat the legal and viscid proposition which we propose to-day, in the manner in which we propose it, or in another form. We have insisted on the other groups to negotiate and re-form our predisposition, to avoid any termy problem, but we were strongly urged to demand it; A clear engagement to translate to LAP's previous terms, always included legal criteria. We had a chance to speak clearly today and we have a position for each one. I don't know whether a lot of things will be cleared up or not, but I hope they are. I think some of the parties took the speed of making a dress fit for Garbera that they wouldn't show clarity and honesty to force a new LAP. And we say this, sadly, because it's an empty counter-proposament that's been passed or transcribed-for we think it's a mere counter-proposation. The first point is: "El Parlamento Vasco insta a Gobierno Vasco a continer con los pas necesaris para obligada revisión del PTS conto de adaptre de a ladirecta del Parlamento y a la la la ley." What is this? This is nothing. There's nothing to ask for! Admission is required for the directive, but some measures and contraries may be taken in this adulation. You don't mark a light direction here! This does not mean that restrictions will be introduced on the basis of legally recognised criteria for the establishment of new areas! The only thing that arises here is that the rule is complied with and adapted to the European directive, and that is like saying nothing. That's pure legal tautology! That means that a law is made in accordance with the law of higher rank. That's not saying anything. That leaves the Government free both to place a new restriction on the implementation of large areas and to determine that one must be opened in every free square metre left in this country. We therefore believe that it is precisely because of this lack of precision that we were denouncing. And this is the moment of precision and clarity. In addition, the rest, or the other two proposals, or the other two points of this counter-proposal, all they do is add to the process of processing the PTS, I do not know whether in order to incorporate more visions, or more political agents, or to extend the procedure so that, in the meantime, some general plans can be changed in the peoples and can be allowed, following the Garbera model, to introduce new large areas that serve as a dotilla to the small trade sector. So, after all, there is nothing in this counter-proposal. It doesn't set targets, it doesn't set timelines, it doesn't set rhythms. I would like to know and, as there is obviously a compromise that has majority support in this House, I would like to see this..., and it is obviously not going to serve today's sitting to approve the proposal that we were bringing here today, but at least it does serve to clarify. To clarify not before me, of course, or my parliamentary group, but rather to clarify before society, the sectors concerned with trade, and all those people and groups interested in balanced urban planning. I would like the positions of the parties to be clarified, and I would like to see an answer – obviously, you are in your right to answer or not, but I raise this question in a rhetorical way; if someone took a glove I would be satisfied – I would like to have simple, elementary and fundamental questions clarified. Are the parties present in this House in favour of restoring the restriction on the establishment of new large commercial areas, using the criteria of proven legality available, yes or no? And don't just tell me like in the joke, "You got a time? "Yes." Okay. If you want to do it, tell me how you propose to do it, because, if not, we're throwing smokescreens. We are saying that we do not really want new surfaces, but if we do not propose, if we do not put on the table concrete and legal mechanisms to prevent that implantation, we are saying or we are selling smoke. Yes, I'm in favour of going back to the previous situation with the corresponding legal shields, but if I don't say how I'm going to do it, or when I'm going to do it, or on what terms, or on what terms, then, I'm selling smoke. And another fundamental issue. Are we going to take steps to ensure that in the meantime, that is, while a new regulation is being worked out that allows us to establish this shield against the indiscriminate proliferation of large areas..., are we going to take steps to prevent the installation of new large areas in that period of time, yes or no? Are we going to act in favour of Garbera, of the enlargement of Garbera, in favour of the enlargement of Bilbondo? Do you want to put something new in Barakaldo, because it still seems to you that large surfaces are missing? It is plain that the establishment of great trading stations may be limited in a legal manner. It is evident that this boundary must be established by reasons of general interest. Between society and social operatings, it is clear that such measures are very extensive, and you... Me was a handchar policionamenetos croros. A mí, al secreto del comercio, y a toda la Ciudadn interesting in the unrecorllo social y urbanístico equilibrado. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u87	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u88	Good afternoon, Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, Members of Parliament. I take the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to set the position on the initiative submitted by EH Bildu. As has already been said, we have reached a compromise amendment agreement between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and the People's Group. A journey has been made as to the origin of the initiative, which today we have come to this judgment, which indeed calls for the modification of the Territorial Sectoral Plan for Economic Activities and the management of large shopping centres. Mr Casanova has referred to some aspects of the European directive, but I believe that one that is very important has been left behind, and it is the criterion introduced by the European directive on competitiveness in the trade sector, as in other sectors of economic activity, so that the concept of overriding reason of general interest over economic reasons prevails. I think it is clear what this House wanted at the time, when the PTS is adopted, also when the Commercial Sector Act is adopted, but compliance with the European directive is mandatory. And Mr Casanova said that environmental restrictions can be imposed. You know very well the arguments that have been put forward in the Catalan legislation, environmental arguments, but these environmental arguments have to be very concrete, with a clear and concise explanation of what harms and in what situations. Because Catalan legislation did put forward arguments, and they were not taken into account, because it was not sufficiently considered, or they were not taken into account by the European Union. Therefore, it is not so easy what you propose in two lines. In two lines, that is not concrete. This is a lot deeper. You are right to say that we arrived here after a 2008 law in this House said that the PTS had to be amended to bring it into line with the European directive, and it was not done, just as no other action has been taken. And, well, that is what derives from the non-action of the Government, from the non-compliance with the laws. That which makes so much grace sometimes to the councillors when we remind them that they are not complying with an article of the law. But, well, we believe that the government's obsessiveness at the time, in the response given to the merchandise, and the relevant and subsequent obsessiveness, has led us to this situation, which is that of 2015, 3 September. And Mr. Casanova is right when he says that from September 3rd to today something could have been done. Indeed, but it has not been done. We're in a zen government, I said it already: don't act; don't act, it won't be someone bothers. And that is what we have, that is the reality, and that is what has remained throughout this Government. Therefore, it is a reality that we have there. In addition, these judgments will result in property responsibilities, which will be the Government which will have to respond with the money of everyone, from all taxpayers. And we're going to trailer, behind the needs, behind the problems. But it is also true that at the moment and in this situation we must try to modify the PTS and adapt it to the European directive, which has to be in agreement with the sectors. You can talk to the sector... So the government will have to talk to the sectors to change the PTS! Or not? Because we'll also criticize them if they don't talk to the sector, right? And you will have to talk to the municipalities, which in the end are the ones who have to transfer to their urban planning what is approved in that PTS! I therefore believe that we are adopting something of common sense. What's late? Totally agree. That this could have been handled differently? That when the merchant makes the resource it is already known that something is not right? That in 2009 someone says the PTS is adapted when it's not true? But I just don't think it's time to look back. Look back to learn what you don't have to do. Today we have a problem on the table, and, of course, the sooner we solve it, I totally agree that it has to be so. We'll see... The truth is that in these seven months he could have given time to make much progress in that work, but it has not been done. And that's what we have. We don't have anything else. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u90	Thank you, ma'am. Good evening, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Casanova has come here with his truth, as always. He has told us that he is coming... at least that a social majority demands that no large shops or commercial places be established. That's what you said on behalf of most of society. Let's see the result that comes out today, which I think we also represent a part of society. You asked... "Gour argi hitz egiteko aukera dugu". Beti hitz egiten dugu garbi, beti, éta gaur ére hala egingo dugu. Beast gauza bat de zuei gustuk zaizuen edo ez guk esandakoa. "I'd like to hear clear positions." That's what we came here to do! Tautology, you do it. I have learned here from you, on very specific subjects, which answer only with the question. Well, we've come to talk about the judgment that overturned the various provisions of the PTS of the Soil for Economic Activities. You have said that, the Supreme Court has annulled the parties concerning the limitation of commercial area in about 25,000 square meters established in the PTS. These provisions are contrary to Directive 2006/123 of the European Union, which provides for the prohibition of making authorisations for the exercise of freedom of establishment subject to proof of economic necessity or economic effects or to their adaptation to economic programming objectives. The origin of this sentence or judgment is the result of an appeal made by the United States of the PNLs. You'll know the number of the appeal, but I'll mention it: It's 237/2011. It does not seem logical, as you have mentioned, to establish a similar criterion in the new reformation of the PTS, when these standards are confined to new positions of the surface of commerce, and the whole is opened. I'll remind you of the way Mrs. Chief of Police mentioned the committee that PTSa is not a law, and it's to follow the law, whether she likes it or not. You have other customs, and when you say that at most, at least at least, the law is indirectly overcoming. And it's clear that this PNL or LAP is directly opposed to an activity that is pushing the City of Donostsia, the enlargement of the Great Department of Garbera, as you said today. In his justification he said: "This situation does not take advantage of only the companies that run large shopping centers, also some politicians". They say "some" politicians, "some" people, parties, municipalities... Why don't they make more concrete? They always put us under suspicion. Say it clearly! "Some politicians are taking advantage of the situation to be able to carry out projects that have long been ambitious." Of course, if you are referring to the Socialist Party, I will be clear on this, which is what you have asked for and what we always do. I say again, what you don't do. "After the judgment of the Supreme Court, the City of San Sebastián" (today, currently governed by the PNV, with Eneko Goia of mayor and Ernesto Gasco of lieutenant mayor) "has resumed the expansion project. The process has begun with the public presentation of an urban agreement between the town hall and the owner of Garbera: the town hall undertakes to modify the general plan of urban management and to enable the expansion of the shopping center, and the property assumes various commitments". And now I'll tell you what we think. PSE thinks it's not logical not to consider the changes that are being created around us. You don't count on those big commercial sites that are creating near Baiona in North Basque Country or the South of France. You mentioned the Donostian Garbera, as you say, and Bilbado. But, Baiona, you do not realize that those parts which are creating and creating there will be just competition for Donostia, not for Donostia: To Donosti and Chingudi. And that's what we're protecting, this opportunity, and legally. The clients of this origin are highly influenced by the commercial markets in the east. Those who come from France to Donosti will not be repulsed by increasing Garbera. On the contrary, he'll bring them back. Again, in France, these commercial centers which are to be made in Baion will be carried thither, and the Donostians, men of Gepus, must we not defend our trade? As you will know, a treaty, you know, has been arranged between Donostian City and Garber and Ike's company. Lanketa horretaz, Eta zenbakitan mariatzen hasi gabe, gauza pare bat aipatuko dut, Eta nik uste dut kontu hartu beharrekoak say it; zein kaltetuak diren –eta motzean egiteko, denbora pastu egiten dellako–. Esaten du: "The new establishments of Ikea and Primark can attract more than 300,000 Gipuzco customers a year, according to the hypothesis, which would mean annual estimated sales of more than 24 million euros. The opening of Zara may mean losing more than 95,000 French customers" (lehen aipati dudan bezala, handik honantz etortzen dienak eta hemengo komertzioan dirua lagatzen dutenak edo indartzen dituztenak), "which these French customers currently shop in the establishments of this sign in the city and spend 8,700,000 euros a year" (hori ere kontuan hartu beharrekoa da). It is therefore necessary, in order to face the evils of the place, to examine new modes of compensation, though there be formulas more interesting, those which are used to limit the commercial surface when it is not possible. I'll mention some of you: Reducing local shops inside the merchant surface, so that the trader should push on the distribution of the local dealers. Set special actions on damaged neighborhoods. To encourage local employment in favor of the injured local laborers by means of employment schemes. This is an example of the agreement made by the Department of Sustament of Donostia with Garbera. In justification you make a mistake. A mistake or a forget. Or you show your lack of sensitivity. You think that the situation poses a great threat to small traders, when you should or could have said that it poses a threat to the proper management of the territory, to the environment and to the urban environment. The convention I mentioned earlier talks, among other things, about environmental measures and environmental commitments, such as corrective measures to reduce consumption, passive energy strategies, use different energy generation alternatives, reduce CO emissions 2 ... And then in another section he talks about the policies of collaboration and impulse in local trade. And it also talks about that for the development of trade, for the small trade of Donostialdea, and above all and mainly for the adjacent neighborhoods, such as Intxaurrondo and Altza, the promoter will provide an economic amount of 400,000 euros, and that it will be the society of promotion that will manage this amount. And HB members in San Sebastián are also represented in this promotional society, because all municipal groups in San Sebastián (EH Bildu, barkatu) are represented. [[Berber]] We call it PNV, also PSE... I don't know if it's okay, but... Okay, okay, okay, I'm sorry. If I said wrong, I'm sorry. I'll try to say it right. The Basque institutions must trust the councils. You will now sign the law of the councils, and you will not be willing to explain this trust to the Council of St. You don't think that, and I don't know if you're going to put the council back under bars from the Euskah that you want to put up with or... Because Donostoni, with this decision or whatever you propose today, you want to put the councils back under slavery. And then I'll go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u92	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief physician, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. Mr Casanova, I will try to respond to your concerns and those of someone else who has preceded me in speaking in this rostrum. The first thing I must say to you is that it is not true that there is absolute freedom of establishment in the Basque Country for large commercial establishments. And there has been no disdain on the part of the government. The Government understood that it was complying with the law, and has defended it to the end, even to the Supreme Court, as has been shown. The Government has defended the interests of small trade, as I say, to the end, and there is no lack of protection for small trade, nor is there going to be any destruction in the territory, as you wish. In this regard, today in Getxo, the Economic Development Adviser met with the social partners to hold a day of local trade and urban plot, in which these issues will undoubtedly have been discussed. But let's get to the bottom of it. It is not just a Supreme Court ruling, but it is two, Mr Casanova. They are two recent judgments of the Supreme Court linked to each other, on the extension of a well-known commercial equipment in Donostia, which have shown the compatibility of the regulation of the establishment of large commercial areas in the Autonomous Community with the European regulation governing freedom of establishment. These judgments of last September, as indicated, have stated that certain limitations of the Territorial Sectoral Plan for Economic Activities and Trade Equipment approved in 2004, which were intended to protect small trade, must be removed from our legal system. The Supreme Court has established that the determinations contained in this PTS conditioned the new implementations on the basis of economic criteria. As a preliminary question, a brief reference should be made to the rules prosecuted in the judgment. And first of all, we have to say that this is a plan that, as has already been said, was adopted in 2004. Following that date, Directive 2006/123 of the Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on internal market services was adopted; this directive, as has been said, was transposed into our legal system through various laws, including in our community, including the second amendment to the Act on Commercial Activity 7/2008. The mandate of the third final provision, which I am not going to repeat, has also been said that I take it for granted in previous statements. What the European directive does is to prohibit the exercise of freedom of establishment from being subject to economic criteria. It only makes it possible to restrict freedom of establishment on the basis of the so-called "imperious reasons of general interest". The Basque Government understood that the transposition of the services directive had been carried out correctly and that the regulation on commercial equipment was correct, that the PTS was in line with European legislation, and that there was no need to change it. In this regard, on 22 December 2009, the Governing Council of that time stated that there was a full alignment between the PTS and the directive and, consequently, that no adaptation was necessary between the two regulations, as I say. In this context, the Supreme Court has issued two judgments, one on the General Plan of Urban Planning of Donostia and the other on this decision of the Council, and both acts were appealed, first to the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which gives the reason to the Government and the City of Donostia, and then to the Supreme Court, which revokes this first judgment and states that there is no such adaptation of the PTS to the directive. The Supreme Court, after examining the State and autonomous legal framework, declares null and void the agreement of the Governing Council and, indirectly, the PTS determinations which impose limitations on the maximum area for commercial equipment, for violating the legal order, without specifying what are those determinations that are annulled, Mr. Casanova. The court states that the PTS uses economic criteria for the regulation of the matter, but does not identify them, does not say what they are. It also orders that the operative part and determinations declared null and void be published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. It should be recalled that on this matter – Mr Casanova also said – there was the appearance of the Commissioner for the Environment and Territorial Policy in committee at a meeting on 10 February last, where the difficulties encountered by the Government in identifying and determining the aspects of the PTS that are affected by the annulment were explained. It also specified the steps it intends to take in this regard, and now what is appropriate is to execute the judgment in its terms. It is necessary to get to work to review the PTS. This should be done in the light of the general criteria laid down in the laws and case-law of the European Court of Justice in this respect. That court has been demanding that measures that may impede the exercise of freedom of establishment must meet a number of requirements: that they be applied in a non-discriminatory manner, that they be justified for compelling reasons of general interest, that they be adequate to ensure the realization of the object they pursue, and that they do not go beyond what is necessary to achieve this objective. In our view, the measures to be drawn up by the Government should be justified on imperative grounds of general interest such as land management, environmental protection and consumer protection; that the regulations to be drawn up must pass the known triple test, of suitability, necessity and proportion. In short, that compelling reasons of general interest must exist and have a relative objective basis for this particular case; that the government's policy forecasts for the sites of these activities and the sales area limits that may be permitted must justify the restrictions imposed in the future sectoral territorial plan. In short, that the services directive has led to an alteration of the legal regime for commercial equipment in our community, and that the legislation drawn up by the Basque Government must resolve the alignment of the regulation of commercial equipment with Union law. It will be necessary for this plan to include an adequate and sufficient justification to prove that the location and the dimensioning pursues objectives of territorial planning or environmental protection, which do not continue to respond to economic formulas, because then it will follow the same path as that which has occurred in the judgments of the Supreme Court that we have commented on. As has been said, we have reached an agreement between the Socialist Group, the People's Group and us, which have already explained the characteristics, and we understand that this is what is happening right now. And in that regard, I would like to thank the members of the groups that subscribe to it. You, on your initiative, call in this Parliament for a sectoral territorial plan to be drawn up within one month, and I must say that you do not know the characteristics of these planning instruments. This, even if we talk about trade, Mr. Casanova, is not a store one goes to and asks "Put me a kilo of bread" (if any, plan). What you cannot ask is to draw up a territorial plan in thirty days. Ask, if not, the gentleman to sit on his left at this time and you will be able to explain to him what it consists of, what are the characteristics and the lengthy procedures of processing. And, in that regard, there is already a parliamentary mandate on how to operate in these cases, which is contained in the Territory Planning Act known to all of us. They also request that the Government request municipalities not to make changes to the new PTS. It seems absurd to us, Mr. Casanova. With all due respect, I'm telling you. Firstly, for technical reasons, because general urban management plans cannot run counter to sectoral territorial plans; there is the so-called principle of regulatory hierarchy. And from a political point of view, because the government cannot invade the municipal jurisdictional sphere. I think we all know cases where that has occurred, and tensions about it. And, put to the request that the municipalities may refrain from requesting extensions of the site, I believe that this council should transfer it to the mayor of Oiartzun, who is perhaps, let us say, the same as the politician you refer to in order to the satisfaction of some particular interests. And for the moment nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u93	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u94	Mr Aldaiturriaga, I really do not know in detail the procedure for drawing up a STP. What happens is that I have a habit, when I don't know a subject and it's up to me to talk about it, document and consult with expert people, as I have done. And, therefore, I have not made a proposal asking for a PTS to be drafted in one month. Perhaps you do not know the rules of grammar and have not been able to understand the proposal: what was being proposed here is that the Basque Government should bring a proposal, not a completed PTS, a proposal on how to remake the PTS, and that criteria should be laid down to incorporate this new PTS. Therefore, we are not talking about the same thing. And, in fact, I do not know if there has been any disdain on the part of the Basque Government (it has been seven months...). Where there has been no disdain is, as I said before, and I forgive if I have not been clear before, because I actually meant the political leaders of Donostia... There has been no defiance. There has been an absolute hastyness in taking Garbera's expansion plan out of the drawer and putting it on top of the table. There are two sentences, indeed, but there is no sentence requiring the City of San Sebastian to make an agreement with Garbera for enlargement. Indeed, it obliges him to cancel parts of the General Plan of Urban Planning that prevent this enlargement, but does not oblige him to make, as he said before, with absolute speed, an agreement with Garbera for the enlargement. That is the fruit of political will! And indeed, Mr Elola has been clear in that regard. It has been very revealing here to see an entire representative of a political party who carries the word "socialist" in a few acronyms, making public relations of the multinationals of trade. It has been very revealing and very enlightening. We can already see that his model is an Ezkerraldea model, driven by his party, which absolutely laminated local trade and which has also been a ballast for the economic development of the territory. Or perhaps his model, as he said again and again in his exhibition, is that of the French cities deserted at six o'clock in the afternoon, because all the activity is outside the periphery. There are, indeed, environmental reasons! The Basque Strategy to Combat Climate Change talks about a compact city model. We're talking about the development of the territory. Our country is actually a small country, it is a city – although I already know that sometimes it complements that expression – because of its dimension, which runs from side to side in very little time, which has a very high population density. It is therefore logical to regulate and articulate the planning of the territory with environmental criteria that avoid, for example, that in order to make purchases we have to resort to the car, that avoid the saturation of transport infrastructures in a land that is already busy in this respect. Therefore, and of course, the consumption model, the supply model when making purchases, has an impact on the planning of the territory and an impact on the environment. And it is not the same to have urban centers with a commercial plot that keeps life and activity in those cities, that take all activity out of the way and have dead cities, desert urban models, urban models that are not to which we aspire. It is therefore obvious that there are reasons for territorial and environmental planning that would allow us to establish such restrictions on the establishment of new large areas. But it's obvious that there's someone who wants to... I mean, it's a political decision, and I think it's good that it's openly defended, it's a political decision to put a red carpet on Garbera. If some have published it in the newspapers, sold it as an achievement, made a flag of it... And I think it is important that we know who is in favour of small trade and who is in favour of large areas. Because you can't be in favor of both of us. The B face of Garbera, the B face of the expansions of the large surfaces, is the closing of the small trade. And I do not, of course, boast for free, because I am worth it, the representation of the majority of society. When I say that there is widespread opposition to this trade model, I am based first on the views of representatives of both the trade sector and trade unions, as well as of consumer organisations, who have repeatedly protested against this model of large areas. But they have also done so not only on the basis of their own opinion, but also on the basis of studies and surveys – I do not have a computer here, but I will gladly facilitate them – where it is determined over and over again that the consumption needs of the population are currently more than satisfied with the current offer in terms of malls and also in terms of timetables. We therefore think that some are working for the service of these large companies. And I don't understand. And it's not exactly in Oiartzun City Hall. When measures have been taken in Oiartzun to enable activities for tertiary use, large areas were not being considered, because there was a PTS that prevented the creation of these large areas. And the city council one thing is to dedicate activities to tertiary uses, which are not only large areas, but can be other models of economic activity that are not exclusively of an industrial nature; what the city council has not done is to call or put the red carpet to make these agreements as they are doing in Donostia. There's a premeditated will to favor Garbera. And today's decision by this House shows that, for many nice words in favour of small trade, the parties that refuse to tackle this issue and this reform of the PTS to return to the previous situation are working..., I don't know why, but they are working as agents of the large areas and multinationals of trade.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u95	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. The representative of the American Basque Group must not speak a word... Basque Socialists. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u96	Thank you again, ma'am. You have said, Mr Casanova, that you do not come here on behalf of the social majority, but you have said that the social majority is in favour, salleki handien eskaera astututa dagoelako. Hori aipatu duzu, gehiengo batek... Ez dakit zer gehiengo, bathe zuk esan duzu, honor etorri zara... And then you mention that you have some kind of pollies and stuff, and that you will give them to me if I want them to." Yeah, give them to me. And we listen to the documents. But I've told you, too, if you want the Esquire, I'll give you a round of the research Ikei made about Baion, and I'm telling you what it'll do with the Gipuzian trade. We are now speaking of the countries of Euskadin Gipulia, mostly, but at the proper time we shall speak of Bischaia and Araba, for in the end the thing which is to be fulfilled has an effect on the present. You have made exact proposals, and if I have not answered you before about these exact propositions, I shall now try to answer. You say you can bring me a proposal in a month, but I think he's answered you in a month to bring you a proposal, an exact one, and that's it.' Your intention is to present and do things as soon as possible in a month, as we think, to overcome the Doostians and the City of Costania and to prevent them from doing so, to prevent them from making the treaty they have made. That's what it's for, but we're against it. I've explained it to you, and we are, because you've mentioned it in the name of socialists... Well, we'll talk about Socialism one time, huh? You have spoken many times in the name of socialism and in the name of the left-hand, and those who have been your friends have even killed socialists and left-handed people. If that's socialism, I don't agree with that socialism. What I was saying: We're putting the red carpet on Garbera? Are you laughing? Well, he can't laugh. In fact, we're going to Las Vegas on Saturday at Eleaspe's in Froilán. Yes, sir! And the patriotic left killed Froilán Elespe. Don't laugh!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u97	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u98	And on Sunday we go to Juan Preder's grave, where the patriotic leftmen go to alderman's grave, so don't tell us what to be left or not. We're not putting the red carpet on Garbera, no. We're putting on the red carpet and the gymnasium, as I said before, because we think we're not the losers, we don't want to put a stop to that pact that's making Gartea and Donostea. We don't want to spoil it, and when I was talking about it, it's because it'll bring goods to the gym. And we'll talk more calmly if you like. You probably don't. You plan the restrictions for these big commercial centers, and we say the law and the sentence must be executed. Of course, government has been pretty quiet up until now, and maybe there won't be much time because this legislation is about to end. As soon as it's over, I mean it's over in October, if things go normally. You say not to give licenses, you say that the general plan does not move. Well, what freedom do you want from the council? What frontier do you want to make to the councils? Don't the councils have their power to change or choose general plans? Not for you, huh? Well, I did for us, and I said it clean. About the Chronogram, about those months, I think it will be time for the government to present itself to the committee, and we are also waiting for you to bring a clear and accurate proposal to the table. And for the time being, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u100	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Casanova, when I was listening to you, I remembered a phrase that was recently said by a famous Basque tennis player, who was saying to his coach, "Tell me something you don't know", because everything you have said here is known by our group, by the rest of the groups and by the government. And in that sense you have referred to that the Supreme Court's ruling is based on the Law... 17 I think it is – I have pointed out here – the 2009 State Law, the Omnibus Law. Indeed, Law 17/2009. And I must tell you that articles 10 and 11 of that umbrella law, the Omnibus Law, say expressly..., prohibit the regulation of access to an activity... , "the compelling reasons of general interest which (...) will not be able to cover up economic planning requirements", we have already said. But it adds that access cannot be made conditional on population limits or distance between providers, nor can it be invoked to ensure the economic viability of certain providers. In that regard, I must say that there is no neglect of the sector, nor any destruction in the territory. And I must inform you that yesterday's meeting of the Planning Commission of the Basque Country Territory adopted a series of interpretative criteria agreements until the final approval of this revision, where the parts of the PTS that are cancelled have been identified, which will be published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country and on the Government's website. And this is very important, Mr Casanova, because from what nullifies the ruling of the Supreme Court of Basque Law the obligation remains to request prior report from the municipalities on the adequacy of the municipal initiative to the PTS, before obtaining the relevant license. And I must also say that in the coming days, or weeks at most, the Governing Council will surely agree to formally initiate the process of revising the sectoral territorial plan. With regard to the Garbera case, Mr Casanova – and I think you will understand this perfectly – some forget that it is mandatory to comply with judgments and other decisions of the judges and courts. This conforms to what we know as the right to effective judicial protection. And the sentences are executed on their own terms and we are all obliged to cooperate in this, and especially when the sentence has been handed down by a chamber of administrative litigation and affects the public administration itself. And it is not necessary to be a lawyer to understand that, if sentences are not met in a country, it is simply that there is no justice. And finally, as far as European legislation is concerned, it has also been discussed here many times on other occasions that being European means participating in a club, a club in which we have to accept rules of play even if we do not like them, all of which are independent and without prejudice to the fact that we are proposing its modification. This comes to mind, and I think it is interesting to think now, that this very week we set up the working group to analyse the problems of the Soil Law in Euskadi, which we may have to review our urban practice in order to adapt it to the directives of services. In this regard, I encourage you to participate in the above-mentioned presentation. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u101	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 21; counters, 51; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u102	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Basque Sociists, and Eucabertarians, the middle-line correction that has been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 51; counters 21; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u103	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal as the Julian team made about the culturer. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Ruiz, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u104	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Let's go, ladies and gentlemen. The concern about the lack of entrepreneurship in Euskadi, which has revealed many spokesmen and leaders of business organizations, is growing as the indicators on entrepreneurship show that they do not yield the data we want, and put us well below the national average and almost at the back of the rates of entrepreneurship in the rest of the autonomous communities. Of course, we increasingly leave behind the myth of Basques as entrepreneurs that we so much like to remember. There are many arguments that stand out to justify or explain this lack of business initiatives and vocations, and there are many authorized voices, academic institutions, administrations, universities, foundations, who are alerting us on this issue. Here are the most relevant data and reports on this issue, and they describe a reality for which the Basque Government knows it is concerned, I know it wants to intervene with its policies, but it should not only do so from the point of view of economic promotion, but should also give it greater sociological, cultural and educational significance. Because we have to contribute to changing the social trend, we have to favour the entrepreneur and the entrepreneur, the companies, and we have to make entrepreneurship a reference value by choice, by ambition, and not so much by necessity or because the fact of ending up in unemployment forces you to have to undertake any economic activity. This Parliament, fortunately, has a law supporting entrepreneurs, which was passed in the last parliamentary term at the initiative of this parliamentary group, which must be applied in its entirety. But here would not end the obligations of any government that is concerned and whose priority is to create jobs when it comes to putting in place new initiatives to seek more entrepreneurial vocations between Basques and in the short, medium and long term to create more jobs. With this in mind, and with the conviction that the future of economic activity goes hand in hand here, we have put forward a non-legislative proposal which seeks to deepen the business culture, the entrepreneurial culture. The initiative has been amended by all groups except the UPyD group, and generally none contradicted what was proposed by this initiative. That is why it has not been difficult, because I believe we share a common denominator, to arrive at a compromise amendment which will finally be adopted at this sitting. In our non-law proposal we ask to evaluate the Law of Support for Entrepreneurs and the Small Business of the Basque Country. This law, as I recalled, was adopted in June 2012 and focused its guidelines on four pillars: education, administrative simplification, support for entrepreneurial activity, and the promotion of business networks. One legislature later, I think it is worth taking stock of this law, and also – which is something that has been incorporated into the transaction amendment on the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party – to evaluate the Interinstitutional Plan of Support for Entrepreneurship. The conclusions of the most authoritative studies in this area justify this initiative. In addition, all Basque universities, foundations, institutions and administrations are involved. Euskadi, unlike the rest of Spain, has failed to recover pre-crisis indices. Our entrepreneurship rate is 3.65%, while the average in Spain is 5.47%. Another worrying fact is the decline of people who claim to have prospects to start a business in the next three years; it was higher in 2013 than it is now. Nor can we settle for the promotion of people who start a business by necessity, not by ambition or by choice. The success of the Basque economy depends to a large extent on small businesses. We cannot wait for someone to give a chance to many young people, but it has to be them who believe or intend to create their own opportunity, because it will be their best alternative to finding employment in the future. One of the main conclusions of the worldwide study carried out by Amway, which has been carrying out a study on entrepreneurs in the last five years, continues to emphasize what is the reason for my initiative, in the lack of entrepreneurial culture (not only in the Basque Country, it is also an evil in Spain), although the willingness to start a business on its own – and this is a hopeful fact – has increased in the last report to which I have referred by 6%. The amendment we have agreed refers to evaluating not only the law, which was what our group initially called for, but also the Inter-Agency Plan to Support Entrepreneurship, but this plan already shows on page 69 how the monitoring and evaluation of this plan is to be carried out, and theoretically this evaluation has to be of an annual nature. We are aware of the report of the 2013 evaluation, although it has not been formally presented in committee, and by approving this initiative we would be waiting for the evaluation to be forwarded to us today as well. The same inter-institutional plan also envisages that such measures can be modified, revised and that priorities and actions can be changed also in the light of the data provided by the various reports on entrepreneurship in the Basque Country. As regards the second point of the compromise amendment, it has been incorporated at the request of the Socialist Party. We in our original proposal did not intend to address the issue of false self-government, but, since we are talking about the culture of entrepreneurs, it is also not too much that the terms are not mistaken, and that we do not pretend to be entrepreneurship something that is simply a falsehood of it through the figure of self-government. Well, as far as the third paragraph of the compromise amendment is concerned, we are actually talking about entrepreneurial culture, which is something that already addresses the objectives of the interinstitutional plan, but we believe that it is very important to incorporate new measures, since those that are already being implemented are not giving the results we want. And here I would like to make a small point, which in the government's plans on entrepreneurship and business creation is often overlooked, but which is not a minor issue, and perhaps it should also make the government think whether action should be taken in this regard. And I am referring to the impact of terrorism on entrepreneurial culture in Euskadi. Labour, commercial, political, cultural relations, between citizens, have been perverted by the lack of freedom, and we all know the economic cost that this has caused. It is naive to think that, if the existence of terrorism has affected the political culture of this country, without which many of the current political and social behaviours would not be understood, it is also difficult to think that entrepreneurial culture has not been affected also in its values, in its norms, in its symbolic references and meanings, if it had not had terrorism. That is why I think it would be worth it (which is not envisaged today in any inter-institutional plan) to take concrete measures that have exactly to do with this. The culture of entrepreneurial values has not, in previous years, in the past had the best environment and the best context to sit and propagate. Terrorism, therefore, has also been a burden on entrepreneurial activity and culture, and we would do well if we applied more measures to neutralize the harmful effects that businesses, businesses and projects have had to suffer. It is worth studying the findings of the Center for Applied Ethics of the University of Deusto and its research on extortion and violence against the business world. Studies and reports not only give us reason for hopelessness. It is true, as the latest report by the GEM – which I believe is the excellent report on which the government's plans are based – that the rate of entrepreneurship in Euskadi recovers slightly, but the data I mentioned at the beginning obliges us to redouble our efforts. Making entrepreneurship a rewarding and attractive option involves many measures, but if they are all carried out in a more favourable cultural context and conducive to entrepreneurship, all measures will be more effective than they are now. Business organisations, with more or less loquacity, warn us of the lack of entrepreneurial culture and of the lack of entrepreneurial vocation. Deepening this, therefore, would undoubtedly multiply the results of the efforts already made by public administrations in an inter-institutional way, but which do not yet give the results we need to ensure in the medium term the creation of jobs through new businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u106	Thank you, ma'am, and good afternoon to all. To work for another, or to work for oneself, two different ways of employment, but as useful as the other. But as we are not all capable of working under another, so we are not able to work for ourselves. And employment policies can't start from all of us as activists. The agent has to have so many skills, and he has to have a special attitude to start an idea of business. We've been raised from childhood to around us, both in family and in school, to work for someone else. On the other hand, we are seldom introduced into the development of our ideas, and the development of those faculties which are necessary for it. They are now in high-school education with a number of programmes, especially in the educational centres of professions (for instance) or in college. But it is true that the faculties which ought most to be employed for the first and second education are not always in an integral manner. Nay, the faculties which are cultivated are, above all, only those of a certain kind of activity; individual competitiveness, economic ambition, etc. And with that idea do I refer the second idea which I mean to-day: What sort of activity do we wish to promote? Usually, in speaking of the cult of action, as in different programs, as in different journals about action, are examples of the most successful companies present in the lists of the most numerous millions of people at the present day. How Amancio Ortega, the owner of the Indian party, began, for example, or Steve Jobs, the Egyptian creator. He's one of the most successful firms today, although he's extremely mean to his employees. Those who are displayed at the present day in every list of successful businessmen, according to their billing, or rather according to the economic profit, are those who get monumental figures. But it is all the same how they have attained such an attitude or prodigious profit of society, as they have submitted to the form of slavery, or whether they have respect for the environment, or whether they have attained to it; And again, about the invisibility of the women of these areas. Aren't they here? Does anyone know who Rosalía Mera? How sad to be known for being "la mujen de"! Or does anybody know who Irene Milleiro is, for instance? These invisibilitys don't happen either. The principal difference between the commercial and the social activity is that the former is the sole end of economic profit, while the latter is social modification, a more equal and just social modification. Fortunately, in Aran, in Biscaia, and in Gipuzia, the ideas which social enterprises have formed have already started. For example, the Eucharum is one of these kinds, a very interesting initiative to us. But unfortunately, they're still a minority in our 100 company. They're almost an exception. Hence, the faculties and functions necessary for the production of such enterprises must be established for the development of small ones. They must be considered as being promoted to the cult of action. For all that we had before, we registered our correction, and so it says: "You're asking me to start the program to promote the cult of action, especially when you open the characteristics of social society based on the value of collaboration." It seems important to us to encourage principles and values founded on socialonomy in the culture of action, because the hundred companies we produce are directly connected with the model of society. We shall build a more social and just pattern, as all the axes which this model ought to maintain are founded on these principles. A medium between three teams has been signed, and we'd be asking for a vote on that middle-class. Even if our criteria or correction has not been checked, if we agreed to vote on points, we'd be at the first point. Why? It makes reference..., justu hemen ez dut orin, baina, well, it makes reference to the Law of Entrepreneurs, and we do not agree very much with that law, but, on the other hand, as the spokesman of the proposing group has said, it also makes reference to bringing the results of the Inter-institutional Plan of Support to the Entrepreneurial Activity. So, logically, we are not going to vote against it. We also find it interesting to know the results well. On the second point, we would vote in favour, because we agree that inspections should be increased in this respect, but here too we should point out that not only in the direction of false self-employed people: in all areas, the Labour Inspectorate would need to be strengthened and more inspections carried out. And on the third point, we would also vote in favour. Para Terminarian, también me was thermaline con docs. I'd like to finish it with two ideas. One, we think, can't possibly be the magic instrument by finishing high unemployment because it's not and can't be a magic recipe for all of us. As I said before, we're not all capable of starting a company project, and still more, we've seen a number of examples in which people in the Precinct have done nothing but increase their role by starting a companyal project. And, well, socialnomy is indispensable, that is why the whole plan Interinstinctinnal de Apotoyo is thought to be a la Actividad Empredododododododo. So that's why today we're going to say yes to this initiative, but we find it very important to penetrate into this line.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Basque Socialists represent the group. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u108	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before I start with the shift I would like... because this is a debate on entrepreneurship, and I think it is also time to express the support and solidarity of the Basque Socialist group to the workers of the ArcelorMittal company in Zumarraga, to all those entrepreneurs who also have their activities attached to what involves the loss of jobs in ArcelorMittal. Our support and solidarity, therefore, go hand in hand. On the subject before us today, on 23 June, a news headline was published in the media entitled "The Basque Economic and Social Council warns of the low level of entrepreneurship, a greater impact on the crisis and a slower recovery capacity". This applies to Euskadi in relation to other similar European regions. And these statements of the Economic and Social Council of the Basque Country were based on a study that collected data from the pre-crisis phase and others in the midst of the crisis in the Basque Country itself. And it compared with European regions such as Baden-Württemberg, Flanders and Emilia Romagna, regions with a high degree of industrial activity oriented towards innovation, R & D, and very open to the outside world. As a result of this study, the ESC proposed, among other measures, effective entrepreneurship guidance and public-private participation forums. The study by the Basque Economic and Social Council indicated that the business fabric was integrated in Euskadi by 154,000 enterprises employing 841,500 people, and that small enterprises predominate, although 47% of employees are in a company with more than 50 workers, and the enterprise in Euskadi is below the Spanish average, at a rate of 4.4% compared to 5% in the State. Among the conclusions of the Economic and Social Council to address the future is the need for greater social awareness of the need for a strong, healthy and responsible business structure capable of creating and maintaining levels of value added and quality employment. This report draws attention to the low level of entrepreneurship in Euskadi; a low level of entrepreneurship which, according to the Economic and Social Council itself, causes fear of failure and loss of property. And this is especially serious when entrepreneurship is one of the key elements for business dynamism. In addition, it is noted that a good part of the enterprise that takes place in Euskadi finds its cause in situations of need, not in opportune assessments. Which in turn can justify these levels of failure of Basque entrepreneurial experiences. Such peculiar and specific circumstances in Euskadi must be taken into account by public authorities when designing entrepreneurship policies. There is a need to continue to support entrepreneurship, but what is essential is that this promotion be oriented in an effective way. The report concludes that initiatives are needed to promote and promote entrepreneurial culture and attitudes among the population, among teachers, among students, and also to disseminate the importance of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial activities to the economy and society. And in that spirit we the Basque Socialists presented our original amendment. And that is why we are going to support the amendment we have had with the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. The Socialists agree on the need to promote the development of the culture of entrepreneurship and to encourage training in the educational field and in society at large. Therefore, we share the need to stimulate entrepreneurship from the earliest stages of education to tertiary studies, including entrepreneurship activities in the Basque educational process and also supporting the development of actions for the general dissemination of entrepreneurship. As the case of Euskadi is not so much a problem of entrepreneurial culture, but rather a problem of not considering entrepreneurship as an opportunity, we felt it necessary to continue to take measures to boost and promote entrepreneurship. Today we are presented with a debate and we are proposing a debate to promote the culture of entrepreneurship in development of the law itself adopted by this House in the last legislature, with the lehendakari Patxi López, and that in its basic concept we share most of the parliamentary groups present here. It is always appropriate to start from the analysis and evaluation of the development of the measures put in place before making new proposals, and that is why we agree with the first point of the proposed amendment. The Socialists share the same spirit, but it seemed to us that the proposed debate was also an opportunity to address issues relating to entrepreneurship, which we have at other times also adopted in this House and which, however, have not come to fruition or to begin. A year and a half ago we held a monographic session on how to address a comprehensive strategy to tackle unemployment and poverty. At that time the Basque socialists highlighted situations of lack of accompaniment and orientation and precariousness, which can also be derived from entrepreneurial initiatives, and for this reason resolutions were adopted that alleviated these situations. We felt then and today that support for entrepreneurship cannot be left alone in the call and award of grants that are offered and granted to those who initiate a project, because the reality – not the reality that is reflected in statistics, but the one that is given in situations that we all know – is that of an increase in discharges in autonomous projects that are not more than people excluded from the hiring of others, in most cases. And that is why the amendment that we originally tabled by the Socialists basically responded to the mandates of this House which were not developed in all its possibilities and which went on to exercise the maximum support, the accompaniment, the proper orientation of the projects, and, above all, the new opportunities of business, of work with added value, and of surveillance in order to avoid fraud, which involves support for entrepreneurship. And because in that monographic session on unemployment and poverty we were talking about entrepreneurship, I would like to highlight, among other things, the agreement by which we urged the Basque Government to accompany the process not only with the granting of aid, but also with real training and with support and advice to facilitate the consolidation of the project in order to limit failures. And this same proposal is being made by socialists in the discussion of the Interinstitutional Plan of Support for Entrepreneurship, because the training of entrepreneurs is not just about teaching how to start and run a business: the key to entrepreneurship is to encourage creative thinking, to promote personal self-realization, and to develop the habit of performing a periodic self-assessment of performance. Another of the resolutions we adopted in the Basque Parliament called on the Government to draw up a specific plan in three months for the strengthening of labour inspection, with sufficient human and material resources aimed at combating underwater employment, abusive days, self-employed false days and any other kind of violation of legality. And unfortunately, although the Socialists have insisted throughout this legislature, that plan does not yet exist. That so-called competence of the labour inspectorate then we do not know how to use it to avoid fraud, as is the case with self-employed fakes. It's very difficult to determine how many there are. Workers' associations indicate that there may be, according to the latest reports, 150,000 fake self-employed in Spain. In any case, there are tens of thousands of people who, having to be part of a staff, are instead forced to discharge themselves as autonomous, simulating an increase in companies that is not real and that, for more inri, is a fraud. And elements such as the flat rate of the quotation, to boost the entrepreneurship, sold by the Rajoy government, for example, as the balm of Fierabrás, what has actually facilitated is the extension of the fraud of the self-employed fakes, and, thus (the two-year deadline of the flat rate has ended), it ends up generating unforeseen expenditure and a problem for the people who had declared themselves self-employed. If we want to tackle entrepreneurship rigorously, if we want to support it seriously, it is important to give visibility to these problems, to talk about these issues, and how to discriminate against real entrepreneurship initiatives in those business actions that hide other things. Institutional effectiveness in entrepreneurship is not so complicated, but, of course, it is necessary to get wet with a real plan to accompany the entrepreneur or entrepreneur, with the elimination of fraud and planning a strategy on new niches of employment, new spaces of economic activity that can have a future and that allow the entrepreneur or entrepreneur to lead his business towards success. And the institutions would allow us to better orient the few or scarce resources that we have and that we make available to the enterprise. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, chief physician. Good afternoon, everyone. The policy of supporting the enterprise of the Basque Government is established and articulated within the framework of Law 16/2012 of 28 June 2012 on support for entrepreneurs and small businesses in the Basque Country. And in its chapter IV ("Support for entrepreneurship") articles 12 and 13 refer to the creation of the interdepartmental entrepreneurship bureau, and also to the development of a plan to support entrepreneurship of an inter-institutional and four-year nature. This corporate support system works well and is constantly working on the improvement process, planning, co-ordination and support tools. It is true that the growth organisation of the commercial associations has been diminished, but we must establish ourselves in our economic context, and not so much as in the support of the support of such a support as to the activities of the enterprise. Nevertheless, we demand to be reviewed, improved, and encouraged, as we believe. The comparison is said to be not good, but in this case, I think, they have an inadequate plan: eascal system is more of quality than quantity, but it provides a higher rate of survival. This is the most important thing, we think, and today we shall be able to verify it. In Euskadi, entrepreneurship must be measured, in our view, in European comparisons or at least in similar socio-economic environments; otherwise, the data would only be used for political criticism, but would not help to make serious progress on what is needed. And it does not help at all to speak positively of this country if we use the data only in that way. There are things that concern us about entrepreneurship in Euskadi, of course it does. We do not say that in Euskadi we are better or worse than elsewhere. We do not enter into that, according to our opinion, false debate. What we do say is that in general we have a stronger entrepreneurial culture or a more sustainable entrepreneurship vocation than figures show compared to other different socio-economic environments. There are differences in that comparison that they make with the State, as we have heard in previous interventions, which have much to do with the productive model. The National Institute of Statistics this past March 9 published a reference on the statistics of commercial societies in January of this year. Almost 39 per cent of the companies created refer to State-level trade and construction. As 36% of the dissolved companies are also related to trade and construction. I think it is to worry about that constant rotation between the highs and the lows over those same sectors, it seems to us. The heading of industry in the State remains in the eighth place of eleven, in terms of companies and in terms of the economic activities created. And communications and information remain in the last place (communications, which are so important today, in the twenty-first century). We are talking about the capital subscribed also in the companies created; the main of the state are the references to real estate, financial and insurance, with 292 million, something understandable by the type of sector we are talking about. But construction amounts to 86 million euros, for 30 million related only to industry. The productive model, therefore, is a debate that we have had on other occasions in this Parliament, to which we have put all the groups present here. In Euskadi we defend industrial policy, we try to specialize and we support entrepreneurs with extensive programmes aimed at innovation. And not just entrepreneurs: we also seek to feed intra-entrepreneurship, evolve from within companies, which is often forgotten, and that already consolidated companies can and must improve their processes to offer new and better services. To be more competitive, in short. I give you an example of the report that came out in January of the INE. Extremadura has the fourth best rate in terms of annual variation of trading companies created, with 21% in favour of it, a very positive fact, but at the same time also leads the ranking of the number of companies dissolved at state level, with an increase of 42% compared to last year. Another example: Valencia, which we have mentioned very much recently in the media, has only 6.6% positive variation with respect to high-level companies, but has 32% dissolved commercial companies. It is true, as has already been said here, that Euskadi has a lower rate of business start-ups (2.9%), but, unlike those mentioned above and many others, we have 7% less companies dissolved than last year. And behind that data there is a lot of work in a very complex environment, as we all know and as we are seeing in recent weeks. The Euskons and Aldudias are working all the time over the rebuilding of this country's economics, helping us to create new companies and trying to prevent the closings of the companies. It is true that we do not now have the same rhythm of the origin of preponderance, but it is true that the quantity of troops which must be closed is reduced in a high rhythm. Today, we ask the government to have the law between the organization and the plan evaluation in order to be able to move forward, and to establish the measures necessary for the recovery of the economy in this munificence of economics, which still remains complex, if necessary. However, I think it is important to remember today in this debate some of the actions that are being followed by the Basque Government and the deputies with the entrepreneurship plan in this legislature. The Inter-Agency Business Support Plan 2013-2016, after being approved by the Governing Council and forwarded and approved by this Parliament, was publicly presented on 21 July 2014. At the same time, and in parallel, the Inter-Agency Entrepreneurship Bureau was established as the body responsible for ensuring compliance with the plan for carrying out its evaluation and monitoring. That plan We're not going to get into the content. It has five strategic objectives, three operational objectives and also five priority areas of action, which Mrs Ruiz has already mentioned earlier. Five areas of action that will mark the practical work to be carried out throughout the period considered in this plan. During the years leading up to this legislature, 2013-2016, different programmes are under way that support new innovative and technologically advanced business initiatives. We have Ekintzaile, a program created to mature business ideas with an innovative or technology-based character, with an industrial profile and services related to industry. We have the Barnekintzaile program, also identical, similar to the Ekintzaile program but for intra-enterprise-corporate entrepreneurship projects. As I mentioned earlier, intra-entrepreneurship is one of the priority areas for action in the inter-institutional support plan. Given the current characteristics of Euskadi's industrial fabric, it is considered that there is a huge potential to be unleashed through projects that have emerged from existing companies as a whole. For this reason, an initiative to boost the intra-entrepreneurship of Basque companies has been planned and designed in collaboration with the BICs, the CEIs, which has already had a first edition in 2015 and whose success has led to a new and more ambitious development in 2016 through a second initiative. Two seminars have been held on intra-entrepreneurship, four meetings have been held where there have been examples of successful tractor companies, there have been meetings with experts, individualised support to companies and support through Lehiabide programmes, and we can also count on or count on the Basque Risk Capital Fund, with almost €5.5 million, an instrument of support to companies through the provision of funds in the form of equity or participative loans. This Basque Fund was launched in 2014, and between 2014 and 2015 there have been a total of thirty-two projects submitted, twenty-two approved projects, and a total of EUR 2,150,000 contributed for these twenty-two approved projects. And we have the Generational Relay Program, a program that is designed to support business transmission processes, to promote and promote business and employment continuity, and to regulate, of course, the conditions and procedure of succession. Finally, with reference to point 3 of the compromise amendment, one of the priority areas of action in the Entrepreneurship Support Plan is the so-called culture and values of entrepreneurship. This is a long-term view, which considers actions to promote the entrepreneurial spirit and to train in economic aspects, in aspects of enterprise and entrepreneurship, which are carried out in the different educational stages: basic and middle education, vocational training and higher education. The Vice-Adviser of Education participates and collaborates with the other institutions in this inter-institutional plan to implement entrepreneurship measures. There are 2,402 educational institutions involved in entrepreneurship programmes, more than 4,000 teachers and more than 460,000 students. In conclusion, we have seen the advantage of the cultivated, of course, but from a general point of view of the Basque. The comparisons between the different parts of the human economy may lead us to error, especially if we do not consider the degree of development of human economy, or do not analyse the most beautiful elements of economy and industry in different places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u111	Thank you, Miss Corles. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mist must speak a word... ? No. Passing round to answer, representing the Basque Potula Group. Madame Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u112	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mrs Corrales, when this spokesman, and I imagine the rest, compared data from the Basque Country with what can be the average in Spain, with other communities, I do not do it in the spirit of disturbing. Because it seems he had to defend himself by giving data and other comparisons and circumscribing it to other contexts. It's just like squeezing, to improve. I'd rather be above the national average and I'd rather we were the first in the ranking, but that's not what happens, and that's why we compare that data. I also told you that not all data is bad, and that there are things that we could also explore and delve into. To begin with, we are the community with the most women entrepreneurs in Spain. It seems to me that I did nothing: 26% in the case of the Basque Country, compared to 17% on average. That's a good fact, for example. Bildu's representative said about the invisibility of women entrepreneurs, and she just referred to Rosalía Mera. I remember in Bilbao how he was given the badge, the Alfiler de Oro award, by one of the most dynamic associations we have in the villa and in the territory, which is Woman 21st century, of directors and entrepreneurs. I mean, we don't even fall into the topic of things that we think by inertia are like that. To begin with, I say that I have just been given an example in which, specifically, in the constituency I represent, the work of this entrepreneur has been valued, rewarded and publicly recognized. Therefore, perhaps that too is, among many other things, that is also contributing to the entrepreneurial culture, in this case the entrepreneurial woman. We were also talking, Mrs Corcuera said, about failure, and that is also true that it is a cultural thing. What in the United States is well seen... Moreover, it is better seen to try several times and fail, than to succeed at the first change. On the other hand, that's also cultural. That is why it insisted that all initiatives, all programmes from the departments, economic promotion, all subsidies, all this would have a greater impact and impact on new businesses if the culture in which all these measures were inserted was more conducive. And that is what I intend with this initiative. That was why long-term initiatives were also being discussed. It is true that within the inter-institutional plan there are measures in the education system, but some, for them to be successful, will be (we are talking about primary school children)... so we are talking about the medium term. I think we should intervene not only, but also, through education and university; also through the media, the family... That is to say, with more agents of socialization, to promote this entrepreneurial culture, which is also being demanded of us by all business organisations, here we have talked about the ESC's report... It's a cry that they want that entrepreneurial culture to spread. In any case, the initiative goes ahead. I only have to thank all the groups for their willingness to agree on this compromise amendment, and also for supporting some of the points. And let us trust that the assessment that comes to us, and those that can come to other parliaments in the future, will be that we improve the ratios and that we can regain the myth of the Basques as entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. The drill won't speak. Corcuera, right? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u114	Thank you, President. Soon. The spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party commented that comparative environments should be similar. At least in my intervention I have done this or tried to shape it. Because I was talking about a news story that appeared on 29 June in the media, entitled "The Basque Economic and Social Council warns of the low level of entrepreneurship, a greater impact by the crisis and a slower recovery capacity of Euskadi compared to other similar European regions, such as Baden-Württemberg, Flanders and Emilia Romagna. Regions with a high level of industrial activity oriented towards innovation, R & D and very open to the outside." That is to say, fully camparative, in a correct comparison with Euskadi. We Socialists were starting with the agreed amendment that the analysis and evaluation of both the Law of Entrepreneurs and the Interinstitutional Plan of Support for Entrepreneurship were necessary, and we must be able to undertake that analysis and evaluation always with a critical spirit, but at the same time also constructive, because self-satisfaction really does not lead to anything, it is not synonymous with progress or improvement. Therefore, it is okay, every time we analyze and evaluate something, to try to have a critical and at the same time constructive spirit. We Basque socialists, every time we talk about entrepreneurship, always use terms – and I think that also rightly – as training, accompaniment, advice... because they are terms and actions that help consolidate projects and limit failures, and that is important. We are convinced that an impetus to the entrepreneurship culture and a planning by the Basque Government that favours entrepreneurial projects aimed at new employment niches, which also provide added value, will undoubtedly be a successful policy for the Basque economy. And it is important and we are glad that the trans-European amendment contains the proposal that we Socialists have made to urge the Basque Government, through the labour inspection, to monitor the working conditions in which entrepreneurship initiatives take place and to avoid the extension of these false self-governments, a term that has unfortunately been popularized with great speed in the world of work, encouraged by the economic crisis, and which is also an absolutely illegal practice to be combated. And why? Because it fundamentally undermines the rights of workers. And finally, the Socialists did want to draw from this debate some conclusion that was beyond a statement, from a mere declaration of goodwill, and that is why we believe that it is necessary for the Basque Government to take strategic action and that its action is not limited to a mere accounting of how many businesses open or how many businesses close the blind every day. We believe that the task is arduous, we have no doubt about it, but it can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. And finally, the Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u116	Thank you again, Mr. President. "... With regard to the entrepreneurial activity rate and the fact that in other countries or in the rest of the autonomous communities more enterprises are generated, that is because of the need, indeed. I believe that this is one of the strengths of entrepreneurship in Euskadi, which is not done out of necessity, but because there is a real business opportunity, that is the strength that the phenomenon of entrepreneurship in Euskadi has with respect to other areas of Spain. And that's an opportunity we can't despise. Why? Because the entrepreneurship that is done in Euskadi has a basis, if I may, more solid, that is, it is not so good in the fact of the entrepreneurship that there are many, but that those really obey business opportunities that survive and that really generate employment." These are not my words, which I bring to this debate today. Do you know who said these words? Mrs Arantza Quiroga, who is not with us in this Parliament today. This is what Mrs Quiroga said in her second speech, after listening to the Lehendakari, about the same facts that we have had on the table today or that have justified the non-law proposal: Arantza Quiroga acknowledged that the important thing about entrepreneurship is that the business opportunities that are generated survive and generate employment; that it is not so important how many occur, but what quality they are. Therefore, I would like to recall the words of the Lehendakari Urkullu to Mrs. Quiroga: "... the number of entrepreneurs with more than three and a half years of life shows a great strength, placing the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in fourth place with respect to the rest of the European Union". That is why I wanted to give data, Mrs Ruiz, in the first intervention. Of course I have not come out here to the mosque, nor wanting to beat you that in Euskadi we are no worse than in other communities. No! No! Simply, that quantity is not the most important in Euskadi, but quality. The Interinstitutional Plan to Support Entrepreneurial Activity, on its page 27, contains the most common characteristics of a Basque entrepreneur, and I have sought a little comparison with the GEM data at the state level as well. You have already commented that in Euskadi we are at a very good level in terms of women entrepreneurs. As for age, for example, the majority Basque entrepreneur is between thirty-five and forty-four years (36 per cent), and in the State this age group falls to 26,7 per cent, being the previous age group, from twenty-five to thirty-five years, the majority in this case in the State. In this case, it may be an indicator that meets what Mrs Quiroga also said in November 2014, of someone who has already had work experience, or who is more willing to undertake with some experience and apparently more university studies, since 46% of Basque entrepreneurs have higher education (almost half) for 32% in the State. I therefore believe that it is clear what we want in Euskadi. We want models of high growth; we do not want those commercial societies that are unable to reach the three years of life. We look for entrepreneurs and sustainable companies over time, who create value, who create wealth and quality employment. Economic activation policies in Euskadi work, support for inter-institutional entrepreneurship also. What needs to be improved, what can be improved? Let's improve it among all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u117	Thank you, Miss Corles. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote the popular teams, the Basque Socialists and the Eucabertarians, the middle-term correction that the teams have signed. No points requested. Is there a problem with the porpoise...? No. If I have rightly understood the first, and the second, and the third, from the other side? Okay. Then we vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 52; counters, 0; white, 0,0; abstain, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u118	So the first point is accepted. Next, we vote for the second and the third points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-17.u119	One mouth has been accepted two and three points. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-two.
