ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u0	Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Pull up the other billing proposition, about the help to help EIBk Women's Bird. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The New House of Earth, represented by the EH group, has the word of Mrs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u1	Thank you, Chief, and good morning to all. "Emma Johansson, Elisa Longo Borghini, Megan Guarnier, Ane Santesteban, Eiser Merino, are the first-class cyclists we don't put any faces on. Alberto Contador, Michael Landa, Nairo Quintana, Samuel Sánchez, we know them. The most difficult thing about women is to play on the road. The most difficult thing about women is playing here and today, because it's hard and difficult to get the necessary means of women's tour." It's our words last November 27th. We brought the theme to the control-bound, because the future of the revolution was at stake. The UCI put on a new duty: that it was precisely that some television chain should follow the revolution, and that it demanded an hour's sum of day and night, and give it the final stage directly. In front of that, the woman's Regainers went over to the funk and asked for help, thinking EIB could be sure that she was following the woman's Bir. In fact, they had contact with the sports directors, but at that moment sports manager didn't want to make any commitments. According to the singing sources, the tracking cost of 50,000 euros and the sports manager was willing to take over 15,000 euros, but the other 35,000 euros insisted that the organization of the rematch was a large sum of $50,000. What they didn't say is that the Regeneration of Men's Basque Country gives 1900 euros. The fact is that the Bira of Women couldn't be sure of the progress of EIB on that side of November, so that UCI left the World Tour edition of Women's Regain this year. But fortunately, thanks to the sweat of the women's vital organizations and work from the EH Union institutions, we finally got EIBk's TV for the first time this year. We made it. By this experience, we wanted to achieve two main points. First of all, this year's probationary television, and it's the goal we've already achieved. And secondly, that EITB shall commit this same engagement to the next year, by making a treaty with the Women's Regare, in order that it should not be a yearly contest. And we have also attained this second aim through PNV and the medium agreed on with PSE. As to the word, so we have spoken in words; "Let the parliamentary make a contract with the woman's Bir to the EIB manager, which will ensure the tracking of women's television for the next few years. By this term, EIB will ensure the television study set by the UCI to be a member of the World Tour by women, taking the means necessary for that purpose." And it's an important occasion for us to win. Nevertheless, we are conscious that we have still a great deal of work to do in the field of sport, because the sport is the fortress of the patrician nowadays, the territory of men, men, and Masculino values, in the most part remote and foreign to women, and almost always despised the sport of women. Sports is not neutral. He plays important roles in the socialization of women and men, the origin of identities and refinances. That's why we're still working and we're gonna pump. And that's what we're talking about: and thirdly, to help women's sporting sport with money, by overcoming the modern dissecting. In order to eliminate sexist roles in sports, we proposed in this parliament to establish the duties of equality for sports and sports, aided by public funds, although PNV and PP rejected our proposal. For instance, for example, for the sake of Seskibaloi in the world of 2014 to play the World's Championship, it was a joke about 1,5 million dollars, but the law of equality does not apply to it, even though the principle of equality here imposes it. Men were the leading and women of the game, the cheerleader and the cabbage. It is necessary, too, that women's sport should be observed and refractory, in which the media and EIB are particularly important. And this proposition, in some measure, answers to it. We know that this proposal is a very concrete proposition and needs a more general umbrella. And, indeed, this more general umbrella was admitted in November last year, in this part of the legislature, in the initiative of the Basque Country in the United States. The Parliament demanded of EIB, the II of EIB. That he should dissect the equality inside the planet, and develop a particular plan to increase the beauty of women in sports, that is to say, in the informatives of EITB, in sports and direct sports, to increase the presence of women's sport. And thirdly, the fair distribution of the public funds must be made. Today, especially when you're talking about it, we think it finances men's sport. We think, if you asked for information, they didn't respond to the facts. Today, there's no examination to find out how much public money it's working for men and women's sports. We're asking if you don't know. But we have some data that tells us that financially unbalanced. As a matter of fact, when you come back from the Euskal Country Cycling, you put 818 grand in it. Of these, 628,000 euro EIB, at the rights of resignation and the rest of the trial. And 190.000 euros for the tour of Sports Management. 818,000 euros. And on the other hand, he's put on $60,000 this year, like, women's Biran. Of these, 50,000 euros for the first time since EITBk was to follow the spinning, and 14,000 for the prizes. The ladies' Bira takes 7% of the men's return from the fun. It's the most important race of women's bicycles in the Basque Country, the first race, the same as the Regeneration of Men's Basque Country. But obviously he's not on the side of public institutions on equal treatment. That's why we're still working to get to a fairer destination, but we won today's stage. We've managed to keep going on EIB and the legislature will allow today to stabilize that engagement, as long as EIB can make an agreement with the revolution. That's why I congratulate the organization. Tomorrow we'll be at Ur kiolan to congratulate the organization directly and protect the woman's Bio. Good women's tour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Fresno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u3	Thank you, President, egun on. Lehendakari, councillor, councillor, ladies and gentlemen, on. The Socialist Group will support the agreement reached between the proposer and the Nationalist Group, because we cannot oppose this minimum agreement. But we cannot fail to say that for us it is a minimal, unambitious agreement. And I admit I was surprised by EH Bildu. Because we don't mind recognizing that this group has been insistent on the issue of women's sport and its visibility in ETB. And in fact, we wanted to restore that spirit in the amendment, which has not been accepted, by endorsing the agreement already adopted a few months ago in the Control Commission, and the spirit that seemed to inspire the Second Equality Plan of Basque Public Television. A spirit that is not present in the contract-program signed two months ago, although my colleague Mikel Unzalu will then address this issue. In the commitments that EITB acquires, there are only vague references to equality, in 5.6.4, that of offering a window to women's sport that will then give us concrete expression. Even though when this contract-programme was signed issues such as Emakumeen Bira were already on the table. That's why we've been surprised to get along with so little. Perhaps along with the delay in raising this issue fully even though EH Bildu raised its urgency in November, it has more to do with the opportunity or opportunism for this test to begin yesterday and it can be sold that its information coverage is the work of one and not of another. I think the organizers would have liked something more. But let's welcome this start. Because the issue of equality is not just a matter of law. It is true that various laws have been necessary for the social acceptance of the right of women to exercise equality in any activity, including sports and the media. Our request is to call equality real equality, since reality is far away on many occasions and in many respects. And in order to achieve the goals, in addition to showing wishes, we need to set targets for the visibility of women in our radio and television. Today exclusively female sports news, published for example in the Basque written press, do not reach 5% of the total, according to a study by the Basque Government, which concludes that the treatment of women's sport in the press is scarce, poor and inadequate. Therefore, we are concerned and care what may happen and the future of Emakumeen Bira, a top-level professional women's cycling career, the most important women's career on the state calendar. It is a step-by-step competition that all the tours take place in Euskadi. The organization works to ensure good participation. The participants who present themselves in the cycling test have an international reputation and that is what gives us projection outside, it is also important, and what aside from our commitment to equality must also interest us, for today and for the future. Therefore, it is necessary for ETB to go hand in hand with this race in stages, to ensure its continuity. And if this year ETB will offer the summaries and retransmissions required by the UCI, it seems to be guaranteed for 2017. But we are concerned about what has been difficult to achieve. We are concerned that still today we face so many obstacles for women to have an equal experience in sport and in the media. There has been a lack of sensitivity, yes, ladies and gentlemen, because it was the organisation of Emakumeen Bira that came to the Basque Government in search of the help needed to make the XXIX edition possible. And the contribution offered would be only 15,000 euros; an amount, in our way of valuing, and of the organization, very little to meet the needs of the organizers of the women's cycling career. We must remember that the cycling tour of men in 2015 counted with the help that the Directorate of Sport dedicated to the Return of the Basque Country male, 190,000 euros according to government sources, in reference to the follow-up by ETB. In the competition of women cyclists that could have a cost of 50,000 euros. We understand that it is necessary to make an economic effort on this Return to the Basque Country, real equality must be seen in real support. The Basque Government must establish specific rules, objectives and measures to ensure compliance with the Equality Act and we can find effective equality in EITB as a public means of communication, which must act with great responsibility, and not that women suffer great inequalities and shortcomings. The Basque public authorities must incorporate a gender perspective into all their policies and actions, so that they all set the overall goal of eliminating inequality and promoting equality between women and men, strengthening greater commitment with great effectiveness, efficiency and equity. EITB should ensure the dissemination of sports, political, social and cultural activities, promoted or targeted at women on an equal footing. We want to stress that much remains to be done about the space and treatment that the media gives to women's sport. Further steps must be taken and work towards effective equality. The Socialist Group once again defends the rights of women and disadvantaged groups in inclusive sports treatment. If we talk about the Second Equality Plan in EITB, we talk about a specific plan with concrete objectives and measures. What interests us is the Government's compliance with the effective equality law, in this case in sport, which acts by the Government with responsibility and not with shortcomings. That's our request. The Socialist Group wonders how all barriers and stereotypes between so-called men's and women's sports will be eliminated. The deal's not the same, ladies and gentlemen. We talk about cycling, rowing, football, weed hockey, volleyball, handball, judo, boxing, among others. We see great gaps in positive action plans for women. He's gone to trailer. And in this regard the Government must lead, not go to the rebuff of those who insist that it contribute to this equality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning, Lehendakari, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. Quite briefly, because we agree with the compromise amendment. We had not tabled a full amendment to the original text, we agreed with what it was saying and, in that regard, we are going to vote in favour, it is quite clear that it could not be otherwise. What do we have public television for? For questions like this, to delay sport, so that the most important women's cycling career in Spain is spread, seen and followed by cycling enthusiasts, who in this country are many. Sport is what sustains the ETB, it is not that ETB does a favor to the Emakumeen Bira, but it is the other way around. The fact that there are such important sporting events in Euskadi as this is, the most important cycling race in Spain, makes ETB have good news about it. That is why I believe that we should not discuss in Parliament issues such as this, but rather that it should be the EITB's own leadership to assume this issue as good news for the public body itself, for television itself. In any case, I say again, we had not made a full amendment by sharing the original text. It is good that EITB commits itself even more than it does, to women's sport. We absolutely share the points made by the representative of the Socialist Group in relation to the role that EITB has to play in reflecting women's sport and, in that regard, nothing else. I think that was a good idea. The truth is that we were shocked that a non-law proposal presented on 27 November last year, in view of the edition of the Emakumeen Bira, has been delayed until today. It would have been better or more repercussion to have discussed it earlier, I do not know whether in plenary or in committee, in any case it would have been a better scenario. But well, the Emakumeen Bira has already begun. In any case, we welcome the agreement. We shall vote in favour of the compromise amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u6	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Northerner, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u7	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief physician, good morning to all. He's been walking twenty-ones across the Basque Road. The cycling test was always in the World Cup. During the past few years, from a reorganization, UCI himself introduced officially that the World Cup was to be World Cup from now on. They make this change by setting the pattern that is in men, highlight that they may be tests of one day, and tests organized in styles. Suddenly, at the end of 2015, we find ourselves in the media with the sad news that the UCI leaves out of the World Tour to the Emakumeen Bira. The reason for this is that the stages are not retransmitted by television, although the latter is not clear, because many races are not retransmitted within the aforementioned calendar. To the many concerns already existing for the organizers, one more was now added. Egoera honi buruz Gobernuari galdetuta, Sailburuak hemen bertan honela esan zuen: "We are in contact with both the organizers of the test and the EITB, to analyze the possibilities in this regard, and we will do our best to ensure that this test is next year on the Women's World Tour calendar". Since then, because these explanations were not sufficient, the Basque People assembled introduced this initiative which we are discussing today, in which they might consider the means and means which the Government and EIB required in two points to settle the terms established by UCI. In February, at the EIB Control Committee, the Director of EITB said: We're going to sign a contract with a woman's Bir in 2016 to get on TV every day a program and the return of the last one." Our group in November, when the initiative was registered, tabled an amendment to the whole of which we urged the Basque Government and the EITB Directorate, together with the organisation of the Emakumeen Bira, to carry out the relevant efforts with the ICU and agree on the right solution for the Emakumeen Bira to be admitted to the Women's World Tour calendar. The following dialogs seem to have already provided some results: on the one hand, if we consider what the Director of EIB has said in the presentation, and from yesterday we have a chance to see the Woman Two every day on TV. So we see in a sense what was required in the original initiative this year, that EIB is filling up the terms made by the UCI. Looking ahead, everyone would be willing to keep the situation going. In this sense, the Eucabertians, the Basque People, and the Social Party Socialists, have signed a medium in which, in the course of the years that we ask EITB to secure the television of the Women's Regeneration. In a second place, we're asking the company to agree to the EIB and the Regainers for the next few years to be accepted in the New World Tour Circle. Finally, I've asked the other teams to vote for this medium to express our joy and to vote for it, here they say they will. Mrs Fresno would say that, in order to be a minimum agreement, as she has said here, today almost everything that was requested in the initial initiative has been achieved and we are going to put resources here today for that to be achieved for the years to come. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. Northraguire. A group without any correction, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u9	Briefly, to say that we agree with the initiative, with the transactional and that I will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Is anyone willing to join us on the answer shift? Madam of the New House, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u11	Good morning again. As a matter of fact, the subject is quite clear, we have agreed, and I had no intention of taking the word in turn; I'm surprised that the interaction from the Social Group has been made. When he has once agreed, for example, that ours is thought to be a very ambitious proposition. I've already said that it's a very precise proposition. It's concentrated on the surveillance of women's meetings on television. It's precise, but that's the way to win these things. That was the main need for a woman's Bira to be in the World Tour, and that was what she was asking for. It's true, it's a very definite proposition. And such proposals as this require the more general umbrellas, and, for instance, we accepted in November, that EIB should make a deliberate plan for the sport of women progressively, and need some additional proposals, and that's what we're doing. This is not the only initiative that we're presenting around the women's sport. We've done a lot else and we'll do them, and that's what we're doing. It must be caused from the micro and macro, but it is not always possible to remain alone in general expressions, but often there is need for concrete things. We are surprised to see that PSE's statement, especially that what was received in PSE's correction, was a thing we had already proposed in November, and an initiative was admitted in November. I mean EITBk II. That he should make a specific plan in the plans of equality to make room for women's sport, which is what you have been correcting in your own words in November before last. And I'm surprised, too, that we're not ambitious, but that there's this left bank that's presenting initiatives in the community of the left, that's the left bank that's being presented by the initiative. You have been more surprised, or have censured, in some measure, the delay of the matter, because in November we presented the other proposal, and now have brought it to the discussion. You should know the reason, but I'll explain it to you. On the 27th control of November we asked the chairman of the Cristina Uriart, because he had reached our knowledge that the woman's Bira was having difficulty in being admitted to the UCI World Tour, because EIB did not ensure the continuity of the question. And when we saw that the Assession Company wasn't planning on taking over the cost that followed EIB, we made another legal proposal, asking EIB and EIB to continue this year, and make sure that he'd be able to make an agreement with what he'd have done for the next few years. We presented it as a different law of nature. Why? To be accepted by the UCI on World Tour, the answer was that he needed last year's November inventory. And on the board of the legislature, the rest of you refused to accept the nature of this proposition. And so, in January, our proposal was delayed in February, and the Two of the women whom UCI left out of the World Tour. So let's see what really cares are here. And what was needed this time? Once we've got EITB to go on tour this year, this was supposed to be the next few years to make sure that this tracking is going on, because it's possible to continue this year, and for years to come. And to avoid going into that fight every year, to be certain of that certainty, and to be able to enter the World Tour next year, we have made a treaty and obtained it. Happy birthday again, ladies' Birari and Women's tour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u13	Thank you, President. Indeed, today the debate we are discussing in plenary is about the help that the Government and EITB must give in the Emakumeen Bira. And, indeed, we have signed and will support the agreement reached, but of course we have the right to say that for us it is a minimum agreement, a necessary but unambitious agreement. We must remember that various laws have been necessary for the social acceptance of the right of women to engage in any activity on equal terms, including sports, but the reality is far from being equal in this respect, because we still face great obstacles today for men and women to have an equal experience in sport. That should give us some thought. We have inherited a series of prejudices and beliefs without empirical reasoning, which makes it difficult for the different laws imposed in favour of equality to be clearly reflected. It is good to remember, because our Autonomous Community has a wide track in the development of public policies of equality, since the creation of Emakunde in 1988. We have adopted four positive action plans for the equality of women and men, all of which are integrated into culture and sport. Where are you in the Sport Equality Plan? There's a shortage. The real plan, without the shortcomings that our competition teams and test organizers are suffering. Today it is up to us to defend and explain the shortcomings that become a problem, as happened with Emakumeen Bira. The Government should take note of the fact that women's teams in sport, especially in competition, must have greater financial support and media support and less inequality. There must be a lower degree of inequality between the male and female teams, if not, as a society we will make very little progress. If not, how will women's access and promotion in competitive sport be facilitated? In what way? One of the objectives of EITB is that it should progressively offer more space for women's sport, giving adequate and dignified and non-stereotyped informational treatment, both in informational programmes, sports programmes and sports broadcasts, with all the necessary material and human means, and especially in events where, as is the case in Emakumeen Bira, television coverage is an indispensable requirement for international recognition. From the Socialist Group we believe that much remains to be done about the space and treatment given to women's sport. Greater steps must be taken and work towards greater effective equality, giving the coverage it deserves. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Mr. Barrio mustn't speak. Mr. Northeast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u15	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Look, Mrs Fresno, the only thing I can agree with you is that there's a lot more to do, that's what I agree with, that's all I agree with. On 11 May when the director of Sports and Youth presented the study, Mr. Redondo referred to the written media, he made no reference to EITB to begin with. And I'm gonna give you some data. So much that he talked about the television broadcast of women's sport, look, in 2011 with Alberto Surio there were 379 news; in 2013 with Maite Iturbe, 853 and in 2014, also with Maite Iturbe, 783. I think there's a difference. So, a little rigor. What I believe is that you have made a mistake in this initiative, because I believe that in this case we were asking for one thing in particular for the Emakumeen Bira and you wanted to bring the issue of equality, of equality plans and then you did not get it right. So, nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. Northraguire. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Euskal Socialists and the Middle Amendors who signed it. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u17	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of the Socialists as the legislatures made, the subjective right to act as a decent and proper housing, and the development of the new economic preparation for the housing by regulating them. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Basque Socialists, Mr. Ichaso, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u18	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. The Housing Act since its inception, from the first day, has been accompanied by controversy for different reasons. But if there has been one that has characterized the iter that has followed this law until its final adoption, it has been the paradoxical, by unusual, fact of being a law that was passed without the government's help; that is, if it is usually the majority that supports a government, it was another majority, a majority of opposition. This paradoxical fact gave rise to the unadulterated impression of what will and spirit the Government would develop by regulation. That concern was logically based on the Government's repeated opposition to the most emblematic contents of the Act. These fears could be banished even momentarily when on 2 October last year Lehendakari was asked in this House, in full control, how he intended to defend the powers of the Government in the face of any unconstitutionality resources that the Government of Spain had proposed. And as a result of that reply, he gave the impression that the lehendakari understood that the rule emanating from this Parliament met public policies and that the social role of housing was notably one of them. This momentous moment by which these concerns could fade away, they immediately returned to our impressions, when the time comes to develop this law and above all the most important regulation, which develops articles 7, 8 and 9, which refer to subjective law. And what does the draft decree say that the government hung in Irekia and that it had a vocation to be a regulation at last? For it says that it has as its purpose, in fact, to comply with these articles of Law 3/2015 and it says – and this is where the problem starts – that it does so according to the will of the legislator, with the gradual pace that the legislator has foreseen. And it does so taking into account the fourth transitional provision, and therefore, we already have a first question of a legal and political nature. Because the general rule is that the legal rules are approved by the competent institutions, trying to regulate conduct that tends to guide a particular social order. However, the transitional law is not directed at individuals, it is directed precisely at the applicators of the law and, therefore, the transitional provisions are temporary in nature and lose their effectiveness once the condition to which they are subject has been fulfilled. And here the provision of this right is to make permanent what was only a transitional situation, that is, that the gradual regime provided for in the law, which is a transitional regime, the draft decree wants to make it a definitive regime, taking into account and very briefly, that the supplementary economic pension which replaces the award of housing, will replace the supplementary housing pension, but logically considerably worsening its access conditions. And therefore, the transitional law, which are provisions regulating existing situations, that is, the time taken by the persons registered in Etxebide, then these conditions are those that are taken into account, until the regulation definitively and generally establishes something else, or as intended by this draft, the same thing. That is, that it was the graduation that puts the law, but that puts it in a transitional regime. And why does the government do it? Why does this regulation collide with what is a subjective right, previously already consolidated, the right to supplementary housing pension, and replace it with it which has more difficult conditions of access? Well, in order to prove that the difficulty of regulating and harmonising these two benefits is due to the poor quality of the law, and therefore, there is no other, as can be deduced from the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party, which must be amended. It needs to be amended, because in the terms in which it is really, it is not possible to regulate in any other way. This is something we totally disagree with, because the fourth transitional provision itself says "provisional regime". He doesn't say it's the definitive regime. On the other hand, the Budget Act for 2016, Law 9/2015, states, on the contrary, that until it is developed regularly, the regime provided for in Law 18/2008 of the GIR will be used. And then the question is, why is this transitory situation posed by the Budgets Act, where the already consolidated PCV access system is given precedence, why does it not make this transitory situation definitive? Well, again because the will of the government and the party that sustains it really is to go against the dictaries and against the spirit that drives this law. And that is why they logically propose to modify it. As can be clearly seen, the Nationalist Party advocates for this, for the amendment, and also through the draft law, with all the ploy that all this entails. Why not propose, as we saw last week, an express reform of the Tax Act? We come to an agreement, in two lines it is corrected, if any, some objective difficulty. No, no, he's putting forward a bill. I mean, a long way, as we know. Therefore, if its vocation were to solve the problems that the law may pose, it would actually go to one of those ways that, as I say, last week we carried out here, and it was a process that lasted 15 minutes, in 15 minutes the reform was made nothing less than a Law of Fees. On the other hand, the Housing Act has its relevant derogatory provisions, among which there is at all no reference to Law 18/2008, the GIR, or Decree 2/2010, which refers to the CPV; that is, there is no derogatory provision expressly referring to the repeal of these regulations. Nor is there any provision in the transitional provisions for the transition from the CPV to the new economic benefit. But at the end of all this, what are we worried about the socialists? What we are concerned about is that, on the pretext of this legal issue, what the Government is coming to demonstrate is that it does not have a public housing policy and that the policies that the Housing Act lights up and proposes are too burdensome for this Government and, therefore, flees as a heated cat from the water, does not want this law, because it sets out tools, sets out instruments to implement housing policies. And what does the Government propose? Well, monetize the right, 250 euros, take and run, and settle as you can. And what we were proposing with the Housing Act was not finding an easy solution anyway, let alone restricting rights already acquired. In any case, widen them. And that is what at all times presides over the spirit of the norm as soon as one wants to read with minimal objectivity. The law does not in any way impose restrictions on rights or limitations on existing ones. Not at all. On the other hand, there are the remedies of unconstitutionality. Of course, the remedies of unconstitutionality which speak of subjective law, as at one point they leave those rules in suspense, we can find that the decision to replace the supplementary housing pension in the terms in which it is currently subject to this new economic benefit, which, I insist, is of a subsidiary nature, although it seems to the Government that it is of a pre-eminent nature, may occur, as I say, once it replaces one benefit with the other, which is subject to the subjective right of housing and on which the possibility of a remedy of unconstitutionality gravitates, what happens if it remains in suspense? That there is no benefit then. Well, resources are another matter, but today what we are talking about is the government's vocation to regulate with the first regulation, with the first decree it has faced, which has to do with nuclear, subjective law, there are already serious doubts about the government's vocation to bring this regulatory development to an end, as I say, with a certain loyalty to the principles and values that lie within the law, as well as the welfare and protection acquis that we have, that is, not to violate all that. And why do we think there is no need for legislative change at this time? Because we're very attached to ourselves and we think the law is perfect? Not much less, for nothing. A law that emerges in a plural parliament, where there are no constant or permanent majorities, is the result of various wills, which of course are not harmonized with legal techniques, but with basic consensus. That is why the law, having in mind its many limitations, what is doubtable, is the concertation of political wills so that there are housing policies that allow these resources to be properly allocated to the population and really is a right to which anyone who needs it and can be cared for can turn. Therefore, this is why we have tabled our non-law proposal, in which we say to the Government, we urge you to "ensure that the regulatory development of the Housing Act will respect in its entirety the spirit of it, which is nothing other than to guarantee the right to access to the legal and stable occupation of decent and adequate housing for those who lack the necessary economic resources to obtain one and subsidize by means of economic benefits". And we also urge the Government to "guarantee that neither compliance with the Budget Act nor the regulatory developments provided for in the Act, as regards the exercise of the subjective right, will entail, in terms of requirements or amounts, any cuts on what is currently regulated for the supplementary housing benefit. And, in any case, the decree that develops it will expand according to the meaning and literality of the new Housing Act." We have reached an agreement with Mr Maneiro, with Union Progreso and Democracy, which I very much appreciate. The compromise covers the aspects raised in our initiative and also the issues which Mr Maneiro presented in the corresponding amendment and tries, in any case, to endorse the initial idea of the initiative, incorporating, in effect, new demands and new demands on the Government, because on the one hand, we see him very reluctant to regulate faithfully and loyally to the spirit of the norm and we see him not too much inclined to develop housing policies. For this reason, it is also urged within three months to submit a detailed study on the impact of the Housing Act and within three months to develop a plan for government-owned housing that has been empty for more than one year. That is to say, all these contents of the compromise amendment do give the government more task, but we understand that they are the own of a government, that it has before it a housing law that it never wanted, and now we understand why. Not because it certainly goes against your deepest ideological convictions, surely not. Surely because it forces him to be active, to work, to function, to make effective all the aspects that the law raises, that are not few. That is why, for our part, there was also a certainly generous attitude not to shorten the deadlines or to shorten the deadlines for implementation. However, given that the law has high content and high voltage, that it needs a time, let's say start-up, but that requires not only time, but also dedication and delivery. Time alone is not able to operate transformations on its own, it is necessary for the Government to carry them out. And in the light of this decree, we have asked for reports, the deadline for submission of which is tomorrow, if the record of this Parliament does not deceive me. I hope that tomorrow, when the deadline for the submission of these reports expires and that they have accompanied the Government in the drafting of that decree, a decree that remains draft, we know that it is draft, but it has some intentions. Those reports I hope that tomorrow, which is the final deadline, will not be answered with the style clause that additional time is needed to submit them, because we understand that the reports exist. Whatever they don't find. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Passing over to the leaders' teams, represent the EH Collector, Mr. Mazzu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u20	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all of you. In the first place, we must say, we share the other proposition of the Socialist Party, which we share, or share with the spirit, and with what is intended to appear in it. But we must say that it is not the most effective way for us, and so we have told them. But we believe it would be more effective to make a law proposition, to ensure the subjective right to our own housing, that it is better to say in the law how it is done by accepting the subjective right of the apartment, and by accepting the economic readiness which has a subsidier character to develop in a law, as well as in another proposition. What we do with another proposition of the Law, is to place the matter in the same place. And what place is that? Now that this subjective right is developed once more under the will of the Government, the problem is here for us. The problem is not to accept the law itself, as a subjective right of housing, useful to us, but we must still see whether it will be attained or not, but the law is an efficient tool for us. Besides, the appeal of the Spanish Government to the Constitutional courts confirms that it is an efficient instrument for us. Why do we say this? Because he went straight against the vacant housing articles and that shows us that the effort we had in his time to develop that law and specifically to regulate that part of the deserted housing, has been a well-favoured effort. So, as I have said before, the problem is not there, it is not in the law, but that in this law the development was left under the will of the government, the subjective right of the housing, and the economic preparation which is consequently developed. That's why we keep thinking that with a slight change of law we can solve these problems, and that's why we registered a law proposition yesterday, a change of law. And why do we say that? Because we have little confidence in the Julian and the government of the Eural Party, and of the Jeltarian Eucan Party, because it is plain that in this development they are ready to use restrictive criteria, it is only to be seen that the demand for a number of names for four years in the sketch of their rule is preserved in the House, and this is reduced to us by comparison of the present situation. Because it's a six-month day to cut the resolution, when it's two months away, and that's a bit shorter for us. When administrative silence is negative, and now it's positive. Or, for example, when they demand minimum incomes of 3,000 euros, when there is no such demand nowadays. Or when it becomes incompatible with other scholarships, it doesn't happen today. I have made all this list to see what criteria are used by the Jelt Party, restrictive criteria. Because at the present day there is an additional housing station, and if we go to replace it with that new preparation established by the law, which cannot be said, we cannot allow that the criteria applied should be more narrower. Why? Because, then, to confess the right of housing for several people, this preparation is indispensable to the future, and it would assume that so many individuals, so many collectives, the most needed collective, should be excluded from these subsidies. And therefore it is in our minds not to leave the development of the subjective right to the housing under the will of the present government, that it is best to receive it in the law. Because we understand one day, that this extra housing station, which now exists, and that new preparation for the law, must be united in one. Even at his own time, when an additional housing station was established, it was said that it was a temporary solution, that the problem was much more spontaneous, and the problem was in the housing area, and in the question of the rights of the people to make the housing rights. And yes, we agree that when we deal with this problem and give it a commercial response, maybe it doesn't make any sense to both the subsidies. But this problem is not yet solved, and unfortunately it is not only accepted by the consent of the law, or sanctioned by that right. We assume and wish that Housing is sure to succeed in the development of the Law, or that it is made for it, but at the moment we have no guarantee of it, that it is not only with the consent of the law, and therefore we think that they must live together, that these preparations must be supplemented for the moment, and that we cannot allow them to establish a new preparation with limited criteria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u22	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. The Basque Government refuses or resists the application of the Housing Act. This Parliament must remind the Basque Government that it must apply it and respect its spirit, that it must respect the spirit of the Housing Act, beyond the resources of unconstitutionality, which would merit a separate debate. We share the justification for the Socialist Group's initiative and what is proposed in it, we share what is said in the justification. I believe that the Socialist Group has made a good summary of the current situation and has put forward strong arguments to then defend what is being defended. Indeed, as stated in the justification, the Housing Act recognizes the subjective right of access to the lawful occupation of decent and adequate housing, and provides that compliance with this right may be claimed from the competent housing department of the Basque Government. The law also states that the satisfaction of the right to the lawful occupation of decent and adequate housing may be achieved by the competent public authorities by making available under rental arrangements for protected housing or shelter, including free housing, if available, on the basis of intermediation or other programmes, with the relevant rent or fee in each case, and in the absence of housing or accommodation and on a subsidiary basis, such satisfaction may be achieved through the establishment of a system of economic benefits. The fourth transitional provision of the Law establishes the legal regime for the establishment and gradual application of subjective law, so that until the regulatory provisions provided for in article 9 of the Law, as stated in it, are published, three situations contained in the legal text that you all know will gradually be dealt with. Decree 2/2010 of 12 January 2010 on the supplementary housing benefit states that the provision of this benefit, as a right, makes it a key part of the system and is a direct reflection of a specific objective, namely to articulate a system of economic benefits complementary to the GIR. The Act of 23 December 2008 on income security and social inclusion provides for the provision of supplementary housing, but does so in a transitional manner, until such time as such measures are linked, within the framework of public housing policy, to similar or other measures. The justification of the Socialist Group also cites both the second additional provision of the Housing Act and the Budget Act of 23 December 2015. The Budget Act states that the scheme for supplementary housing benefits provided for in Act No. 18/2008 of 23 December 2008 on income security and social inclusion will remain in force until the entry into force of the regulations provided for in article 9 of the Housing Act. Once the regulations are in force, new supplementary housing benefits will no longer be recognised. Therefore, as the justification points out, it is obvious that the supplementary housing provision was legally configured as a transitional instrument until it had another comprehensive framework in public housing policies. The Housing Act offers the option of developing ways of exercising the subjective right to housing. The Housing Act establishes a transitional regime to determine who may have a subjective right to housing in a progressive manner within three years, provided that there is no regulatory regulation under Chapter XI of the Housing Act on the subjective right. As stated in the justification, this transitional state must tend to disappear through the assumption by the Government of its responsibility for the regulatory development that establishes both the conditions and requirements for the subjective right of access to the legal occupation of decent and adequate housing, and the establishment of a system of economic benefits as a subsidiary. And on the basis of all these arguments, the Socialist Group's two demands: to urge the Basque Government to ensure that the regulatory development of the Housing Act fully respects the spirit of the Housing Act, and to urge the Government to ensure that neither compliance with the 2015 Budget Act, nor the regulatory developments provided for in the Housing Act with regard to the exercise of the subjective right to a decent housing in its form of economic benefit, will mean, neither in terms of requirements nor amounts, any cuts on what is currently regulated for the supplementary housing provision. We share the demands of the Socialist Group and we, through our entire amendment, have tried to complement this original initiative of the Socialist Group. To have a subjective right is to have a right, i.e. the citizen has a right for himself and as such, it means that this ownership is recognized by the State, understood as the whole of the public authorities. Legitimacy for exercising subjective law refers to the set of conditions that the objective norm requires subjects who wish to act upon it, to enjoy it. It is the legal provision itself, in its context with the others of the same legal order, that indicates and conditions the requirements that the person must meet so that he/she can have the legitimacy that the law requires to exercise his/her right validly, to enjoy his/her right validly and effectively. The Housing Act is an important milestone in deepening social rights. The consideration of access to decent and adequate housing as a subjective right helps to close a circle that, without fear of error, is of great value in terms of social protection. The right to health, education, income security income and the right to occupy decent housing are surely the pillars of a democratically advanced society. Well, these rights must be exercised under a positive projection from all public administrations, since they are the guarantors of these services that are strategic in a modern society. It does not seem reasonable that the subsidiary mechanism to exercise the subjective right of access to housing becomes the main mechanism, let alone make use of the regulatory development of a law to cut social rights, which is what the Basque Government, without going further, claims. Therefore, we believe that the draft decree on the subjective right of access to the legal occupation of decent and adequate housing breaks with the desire for equality and justice expressed by this Parliament in adopting the Housing Act. On the basis of these arguments, we put forward a non-urgent bill, which was finally not admitted to procedure. The law, in article 9.2, reflects that the economic benefit is a subsidiary measure, which applies only in the event that there is no housing available to satisfy this subjective right, and not the common measure addressing the need for housing, and therefore it does not seem reasonable to exercise the option of paying financial aid while the Department of Housing and other public authorities have own housing. This would not have required a new regulation, it would have sufficed with the existing supplementary housing benefit. On the other hand, it does not seem reasonable to make a negative development in the right to access to housing. While to date the necessary period of registration in a municipality of Euskadi to access the GIR, a condition necessary to be beneficiary of the supplementary housing benefit, is three years, the aforementioned draft decree requires a minimum of four years of registration in the register of applicants for protected housing and accommodation. Similarly, this draft decree contains in article 7.1.c minimum income as a requirement for access to housing, a requirement which was not covered by the law, and which, in our view, contravenes the spirit of the decree. The regulatory development of a law must give an effective impetus to the very spirit of the law. One cannot pretend to make use of regulatory development just to the contrary, to prevent the application of the law. It is not possible to make a twisting use of its content to cut rights and position itself again against a law that has simply been the result of the demands made by Basque citizens. With all these arguments, we have tabled this amendment in its entirety, which contains five demands. We propose to urge the Basque Government to submit within three months a study on the impact of the Housing Act on Basque society. We propose to urge the Government to develop within three months a plan for the vacant Basque Government-owned housing to be used for social rental. Priority should be given to the location of families benefiting from housing owned by the Basque Government in comparison with the allocation of an economic benefit. To establish three years as the minimum length of service as an applicant exclusively for rent in the relevant register. Finally, we call on the Government to ensure that, in order to be registered in the register of tenants, the income requirements for potential beneficiaries of the subjective right to decent housing cannot be higher than those set out in the Income Guarantee Act and for social inclusion for the purposes of obtaining GIR. With all these arguments and with all these proposals, summarising the proposals put forward by the Socialist Group and by UPyD, we have come to this compromise, which, as I say, covers all these just demands. What we want is for the Basque Government to enforce the law, remember its spirit, recognize it and implement it as soon as possible. This is basically what we propose. What the Basque Government cannot do is try to put sticks on the wheel and prevent this Housing Act from being implemented as soon as possible. Nothing more, and thanks especially to Mr Itxaso for signing this transactional.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Alter fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u24	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Sailburu jaunak, legebiltzarkideok, egun qui guztioi. As already indicated, the supplementary housing benefit, the CPV, is an economic benefit granted by the Government to meet the requirements related to the need for housing or accommodation of those who receive income-guarantee income, the famous RGI, to deal with housing rental cats in their various forms. For the purposes of today's debate, we are interested in highlighting the need to meet two requirements in order to be able to charge the PCV: one, to be the holder of the RGI; and two, to be registered or to have applied for registration as an applicant for rental housing in the Etxebide service. Similarly, it is important to recall that the CPV was created in 2008 under the competence of social assistance, and it is also expressly pointed out, as already indicated, that it will only remain integrated into the Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion until similar or other measures are articulated within the framework of public housing policy that cover the same need for access to housing for the most vulnerable or disadvantaged groups. In addition, the law itself of 2008 defines it as a subjective right, i.e. a subjective right with a transitional character. In June last year, the Housing Act was passed in this House, which establishes and regulates the so-called subjective right of access to the legal occupation of decent and adequate housing, directly aimed also at meeting the housing needs of the most disadvantaged groups. In order to have access to this right, a number of requirements must be met, which, for the purposes of today's debate as well, are of interest to us to focus on them. One, the derivative of the law itself in Article 9.3(b), is validly registered in the register of applicants for sheltered housing and accommodation in the form of rental. And two, the derivative of the fourth transitional provision of the law itself, with regard to determining who is entitled to the first years of the application of the law, and in it it requires that the applicants, in addition to being validly registered as we have said, be registered at least four years old; it is further noted that the unit of coexistence has annual income between certain limits, depending on the number of members that make up it. In such cases, the Administration will be obliged to provide them with rental housing among those managed by the Government itself. And only when once this subjective right is recognized by the Administration, but it cannot be realized, because it does not have adequate housing or accommodation, do I say, in a subsidiary way, the Administration will pay the economic benefit of housing. In other words, there is an identity of purpose between the economic housing benefit as a materialization of the subjective housing right, and the supplementary housing benefit of income guarantee income. This is the legal regime applicable today. What happens is that we are faced with a problem: that in order to be a beneficiary of the subjective right to housing, different requirements are required by law than the defendants for the preceptors of the supplementary housing benefit, the group of beneficiaries does not coincide, are not the same. At the same time, this Parliament, following a usual practice in the Housing Act itself, empowers the Government to establish legal rules in the development of the Housing Act and to comply with it in those aspects that the legislator considers secondary. And I do not think anyone is questioning the existence of this regulatory power granted to the Government in this matter. In this context, the Government is drafting the decree regulating subjective law, and that is when some have realized the problem. Our group has already made this clear during the work on the draft housing law, both at the presentation stage and later in the adoption of the opinion in committee, and even finally in the plenary session of the adoption of the law. Ten months ago we said in this same rostrum: "The application of this law in the proposed terms and its relationship with the Income Guarantee Act will raise a social conflict. Existing PCV collectors who do not meet the requirements laid down in this law must cease to receive the subsidies for the rental of the dwellings they occupy. The regulation of this matter carried out in the document is so deficient that upon the entry into force of the law there will be two subjective rights: one, the law itself, and the other, that of the Income Guarantee Act." We also said that this deficiency represents another hole in the legal certainty of the applicable law. And we asked for the will of the promoters of the law, whether because they were both rights of the same nature and with identical purpose, whether the one replaced the other, or whether there was any degree of concurrence between them. And it would have been logical to clarify the regime applicable to situations born under the income guarantee scheme, and to resolve the situations caused by the Housing Act in the transit between one system and another. But none of this was done in the Housing Act, because the second additional provision does not establish any compatibility between the two systems. The additional provision is only intended to state that the Government is responsible for the exercise of powers in the area of supplementary housing provision. This is something that affects the power of self-organization of the Administration, which is certainly something that is already surpassed by the lehendakari's own decree of December 2012 on the organization of government departments. But it is that, in addition, the matter becomes extremely complicated when we read the third derogatory provision, which states: "All provisions of equal or lower rank shall be repealed as soon as they oppose this law and are not in conformity with it." It has therefore been necessary to make some clarifications in the Budgets Act, to which reference has already been made and which have served to prevent a major social problem from arising in our country. As I said earlier, in this context of drafting the decree regulating subjective law is when some have realized the problem, in view of the draft decree hung on the Irekia web. And to solve it, they propose something that if we were in a circus would be called the most difficult one: they propose that the Government in the regulatory development of the law respect in its entirety the spirit of the Housing Act, without implying any cut in terms of requirements or in terms of size compared to the one regulated by the PCV. They propose that the Government skip the determinations of its own law. Do you want people without a temporary residence permit to have access to a rightful home in the Autonomous Community? Do you think it's okay for a person with no income to have access to public housing and therefore not be able to pay an income? And we say: if you do not agree with the registration requirements or the old age requirements on the same or the minimum income required, why did you set them in the law? Because, by being able to do so, they did not establish others to gather that spirit that you claim here today. In order to deepen this question of determining the spirit, in our opinion it is necessary to distinguish between the end of the norm, the legitimate wills, and the end of the legislator, legislative wills. The first inquiry into the purpose that the norm has acquired, regardless of its author, of the legislator, and is therefore called objective interpretation. The second, by focusing on the will of the legislator, is called subjective interpretation and attends to what the historical legislator intended. The legal order applicable in Euskadi, derived from the application of article 3 of the Civil Code, seems to be clearly subscribed to the defence of objective interpretation, that is, to investigate the legitimate will, and for that the first and preferential interpretative rule is the literal one. If the terms of the law are clear, it must be in the grammatical sense, ladies and gentlemen. In the case we are discussing today, I do not think anyone will doubt that the Housing Act requires that, in order to hold the subjective right to housing, it be validly registered in the register of tenants and be registered in the register for a period of at least four years. If the legislator had wanted that period to be three years, he would have established it in the law itself. It is, in our view, beyond any doubt that in the legal system, the regulation, the decree, is totally and absolutely subordinate to the law. Between the law and the regulation there is a hierarchy relationship that cannot be altered by the regulation itself, otherwise the principle of legality is violated and any regulation that violates the law is null and void, as you all know. For this reason, the regulations drawn up by the Basque Government must respect these issues set out in the law. In view of the initial proposal and the compromise amendment presented, we propose to amend the law, that the Government prepare a draft law amending the Housing Act, in order to allow for the appropriate integration between the subjective right to housing established in it and the supplementary housing benefit system, regulated by the Income Guarantee Act. We also request that, as soon as this amendment does not take place, the exercise by the Government of its regulatory power under the Housing Act itself be carried out in accordance with the general rules and principles which apply to it in this regulatory task. We understand, as I say, that this is the most appropriate solution, rather than making leaps in the void and solutions of difficult digestion for normal operation, day by day, in the sense that they can affect the beneficiaries of the supplementary housing benefit or anyone else who wants to understand which regulations are in force and which ones are not. That is why we believe that this point needs to be clarified, and we propose this formula for amending the Housing Act, which we believe is the most appropriate way of resolving the problem we are facing here today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing over to the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Potula team, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Just like last week, we discussed housing and housing law again today. And the debate that is taking place here today some of us have already warned that it was going to take place when the Housing Act was passed, and there is a saying, which we also commented earlier, that "from those dusts come these sludges." It deals with the proposal on the regulatory development of the Housing Act, which, as I say, was adopted in this House and specifically the subjective right of access to housing. Last week I said, and I want to reiterate it here today, that from this group... Because it seems that only some political groups here seem to be allowed to talk about housing law and only some political groups seem to want to have a housing law and that they are in favour of the right of access to housing. And I want to say that this group has always demanded that there be a housing law, a law that articulates, that this right to decent and adequate housing be made effective. Because look, Mr Maneiro, at the right to housing, which the State, the public authorities have to guarantee, does not depend on the fact that this law recognizes that it is a subjective right. It is enshrined in the Constitution itself. And we said when this law was passed that we had many doubts about the legal certainty of it and about the constitutional fit of some of its precepts. Because this law has not been challenged because it is a good law, as some say here, no. It has been challenged because many of its precepts do not fit constitutionally, and we said so already at the time that law was debated here. And of course, we recognize that there is a need for a housing law that will give effect to that right. But recognizing this does not mean that we say that any housing law is positive and has to be admitted, and we already said that we did not agree with the one that was adopted here. And you have spoken of consensus, Mr Itxaso. Don't be mistaken, you didn't seek consensus. Because the bill they presented was a bad copy, because it even introduced articles that made it worse, from the bill submitted by the socialist government, but that since it did not have enough votes at the time, as it did not require consensus, they waited at a better time and brought it here when the arithmetic majority could give that law out. But that doesn't mean there was consensus in that law, nor does it mean that that law that came out, no matter how much it had an arithmetic majority, was a good law. And the proof is the proposition they have had to present here today, because that law contained many slogans and much demagogy. Many slogans, as it seems, are necessary, in order to guarantee the right to housing, that it is recognized as a subjective right. And I told her then and I want to repeat it again now. The question is not whether it is recognized as a subjective right and can be claimed judicially. The issue is that the public authorities have sufficient economic means to realize that right. And you have approved the budgets this year, and the previous one, and the previous one, but, well, this year. Have they made any provision for that right to be truly effective? And now it is said that a study will be carried out on the impact of the Housing Act. Hey, wouldn't it have been more logical to have done so before passing the Housing Act, which would have meant financially passing that Housing Act? For you to see whether you were aware that it depended economically on it, that it established a transitional regime, hear, a transitional regime that encumbered it in three years, in three years, in order to be able to apply that right and also set out a number of requirements. And here we are talking about this economic benefit and the compatibility on the supplementary housing benefit, which is already approved. And indeed, and as Mr Aldaiturriaga has said, here we have already shown that the requirements were different for each other and that what would happen when that law was passed, how the two would be combined. Because it puts itself at the first point... I agree, too, and I can agree, that there are indeed empty dwellings, and in fact there have been other initiatives in this regard, which can be made available to the public authorities, and that it is theirs that these dwellings be delivered before an economic benefit. But the law itself provides that if such housing is not available to the public authorities, it may be replaced by an economic benefit. If he disagreed with the financial benefit, it would not have been put in place. And then it turns out you have to respect the spirit. Hey, the spirit, but the lyrics too. Because in a democratic state of law the normative hierarchy exists and what cannot be done is... Because if the government were to do so, you would put the cry in heaven in other respects, that is, if the government when making a regulation and developing a law laid down contrary precepts or provisions contrary to those contained in the law, we would all put the cry in heaven, because obviously the spirit yes, but I say the letter also, and if in the letter, in the transitional provision says four months, by means of regulatory development cannot be transformed. If necessary, the law will have to be changed, but it cannot be transformed. If you say a number of certain economic sections, you cannot change, you will have to change the law, but not through regulatory development. What happens is that I told you, this group said it when the law was passed, it was a law that contained a large dose of demagogy and populism, and that, moreover, accusing those who did not support that law, because we said that a role endures everything, but that then we have to put the economic means so that what comes in that role can be applied, well, for to those who said that we were accused, and we continue to be accused, that we really do not believe in the right to housing, that we do not agree to guarantee a decent, adequate and accessible housing to those who do not have economic resources. And look, no. What we are not willing, we were not then, and we are not now, is to deceive the Basques, to create false expectations for the Basques, to say that this law was going to be the panacea that was going to solve everything, because it is not. Because if there's no economic means, it's not, no matter how much a law says it. But it was, above all, a bad law. Besides not being a solution, besides being populist, it was a bad law. And come on, I'll go back to the tests. At the first change you have had to say that what the Government is going to do, because that is reflected in the precepts set out in the law itself, do not do so. Listen, since they had passed another law, they would have put three months instead of four, they would have put other economic resources, so simple. But when you realize how bad the law was and the defects that the law has, you now say that the government will regularly develop it and save those defects. And if you don't save them, it's that you're not fulfilling the obligation to develop the law. A government, once the law approves it by the House, which makes this law, has no obligation but to develop it, as it is mandated by the law itself. And you have to develop it, and I agree with you in that, that you have to make a regulatory development. But you have to make a regulatory development without skipping the law. And the truth is that I told you at the time: this law, in addition to many frustrations, was going to bring many problems, because there were many issues that were unconstitutional, and there it is. There were many issues, such as the complementarity of the two benefits, that were going to bring problems, because instead of expanding rights, they could be restricted. And all those issues that we highlighted at that time are now seeing the light. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u27	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing the answers, Basque Socialists, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u28	The truth is that it is not a legal problem, although the whole debate has to do with legal interpretations. That, by the way, I take the opportunity to tell you, Mrs Llanos, that yes, that of course to the tenor of the letter. Transitional provision. And the draft decree, what it proposes, is to make definitive what the law proposes as a transitory one. But I do not want to dwell on legal issues, because, being important, what we come here is not to examine ourselves in law, but to explain a political position. That the PNV did not want this law, come on, that strikes me to say, and it is only necessary to remember some emblematic episodes, such as the amendments tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party under contract. Or that appeal to the so-called global effect, that is, terrorizing the world over the effects that the law would bring if adopted in those terms. What you have found – and that is what I have tried to explain in the first intervention – is that the concern that we had for a law in these terms or similar, was that the government's lack of conviction, in all probability, could make that at this stage, when the time of regulatory development comes, endless problems would begin to appear. And this is a problem that has been artificially created, because at no time is the Government inexorably engaged in making that draft of the decree when it can make another. For the time being, and with the legal terms in hand, the PCV system as we have known so far continues to be applied temporarily. And what we say is man, that transitivity why does not elevate it to definitive. Because in the end the Government has the possibility of integrating one benefit into the other, but logically maintaining the best conditions of the existing one, not making it worse, because that was not the will of the legislator and I don't know where the opposite can be deduced from. Then there's a curious coincidence, Mr. Maeztu. Both you and the Basque Nationalist Party are proposing a change. I will not be the one to say that there is no need to change, because it is that the legal system in general, the rules and the law are always something dynamic, that is, it is not static, it is in motion, and a revision is always needed. That is, they can't be changed every day because the procedures are really raging, but every day there are cases and needs that pose in every sectoral law new needs, and we are the first to accept the limitations that the law has. We say that it is not perfect and we say that yes, that it is the result of consensus, of basic consensus. Because you must have said many things, Mrs Llanos, but it must have been one of the many times you went to the paper, because you, the People's Party, the issue of the Housing Act, and it is shown in the iter that has been followed, you cared about a fig. So, as I say, we are not dealing with a legal issue, that if it were, it would also have a solution and an answer. What we are dealing with is regulatory power, as Mr Aldaiturriaga says. And that regulatory authority is a broad, very broad faculty. The Count of Romans has already said: "Do the laws, that I will do whatever comes out of what rhymes with my surname." And that's the power the government has. It has chosen the one that creates the greatest disturbance, the one that creates the most controversy, the one that seems to lead us to a dead end, but it was not inexorable, the Government could have made another draft decree. So that is the case, that it has remained dead, it is not known to wait for what, probably in need of corrections, that we hope it will not be so scarring, that we hope it will be the appropriate corrections, so that that right, the subjective right, in its aspect of economic benefit, which we insist on always seems to us to be a subsidiary measure and here it seems that it is the main measure, to follow the criteria and requirements that have been followed with the PCV so far. And don't make a restrictive regulation. To plant this we do not believe that it is the result of the difficulties that the law has, it is the result of the difficulties that the Government of the Basque Nationalist Party has in digesting the terms of that law, the public policies that are inherent to it, that it does not want to carry them out and that it prefers to take the matter out of the way in this way, which we believe is contradictory to what public housing policies should be. Thank you, Mr. Maneiro, for your willingness.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. The Representative of the EH Group has the word. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u30	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu anderea. First of all, I believe that Mrs Llanos has given in the key, when she says that this is a law that is not within the constitutional framework, she has given in the key to defining this as a good law. Because today it is shown that there is no need to protect fundamental rights and basic rights of citizens that fit within the constitutional framework, it is only necessary to look at the resources that the State Government is putting in place and what the Constitutional Court is deciding, to see that it is increasingly difficult to protect the basic rights of citizens and to have a connection with the Constitution. The best we can do with the Constitution, we have been told since Catalonia, is to burn it to warm up with it. From here, I will say what the meaning of our vote is, and the meaning of our vote with the Socialist Party's and UPyD's compromise amendment will be favourable. It is going to be favorable for one reason, because we believe that if this proposal is approved today and if the Government complies with what that proposal says, that is another, that this regulatory development will surely be done by protecting the rights that exist today for many people within the supplementary housing benefit, and the evil will be less. Even so, we continue to think and that is why yesterday we registered a bill, that the second additional provision of the law must be changed. Not because of the second additional provision of the law itself, but because of the development that has subsequently taken place in the Budgets Act and above all in view of the regulations of the Basque Government. To leave it in a very clear law. Because we think that to this day, they still have to live together, not be compatible but have to live together, the supplementary housing allowance, which is regulated on the basis of the Income Guarantee Act, and the subsidiary economic benefit, which is set out in the Housing Act. Because it makes sense that one day, as I said before, if we face the structural problem of housing for all groups but especially for the most vulnerable groups, there are not two, one on the social and one on the housing routes, but there is one. But that still does not happen today, and according to how this subsidiary housing benefit is developed, what can be done is to curtail rights, which is what is allowed to be seen in the government's rules of procedure. We would therefore like to make this clear in the law and in the second additional provision, proposing that the Housing Department regulate the subsidiary provision of that law, but that additional housing provision continue to be regulated by the Department of Social Policy and within the framework of the Income Guarantee Act. And we will see in the course of the law and in the development of the law what gives that of itself. And so, we also have another objective, which is not to leave the Government to regulate the supplementary housing allowance at this time. Because we have seen the lack of social sensitivity not only of the Government, but of the party that supports the Government, not only in that regulation, but this very week with the measure that it announced in Gipuzkoa, removing about 1,500 families from their only economic livelihood, which is income guarantee aid. We do not want to leave the supplementary housing provision to that party as well. And we want to make it very clear in the law, that it has to continue to regulate itself as it is today. That is why we will vote in favour of the compromise amendment and we will defend the need to make an amendment, which for us must be very simple and read only, in order to make it very clear in the second additional provision that the CPV has to continue to regulate itself as to this day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Does the missile have a word? Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u32	Thank you very much, President. We are not going to support in the short term any legal amendment affecting the Housing Act. It has recently been adopted and, therefore, our interest is that it can be developed and applied in its just terms. This is what we intend in the short term. And therefore, insisting on the idea that the law must be amended, because the law contains errors or is perfectable, seems to us a huge mistake and we are not going to go into any case into that game. It is a matter of political will, as in everything else, for the Basque Government to accept that there is a housing law by this Parliament and to implement it as soon as possible and for the benefit of all citizens. That is, therefore, our purpose and will continue to be our purpose in the short, medium and long term, provided that something related to the Housing Act that is in force is discussed. The spokesman for the Basque Nationalist group pointed out in his speech that the existence of two subjective rights leads us to social conflict, I think he has said so with these words. I believe that the social conflict comes precisely when there are no rights applicable to the whole of the citizenry. I believe that the social conflict comes when evictions occur. I believe that the social conflict comes when there are citizens who have to live on the street because they do not have the financial resources to access decent and adequate housing. I believe that the social conflict is reached when there are citizens who cannot reach the end of the month. That is the social conflict we have to face. There is no social conflict as a result of two subjective rights: the subjective right to supplementary housing benefits and the subjective right to decent and adequate housing. It is just the opposite, it is the absence, if any, of subjective rights that lead to social conflict. And certainly the Basque Nationalist Party intends not to apply the law or to apply it as little as possible. For her part, Mrs. Llanos said that it seems that only some groups want a housing law. It is clear that only some groups passed this Housing Act, and what seems clear is that only some groups want a housing law that recognizes the subjective right to enjoy decent and adequate housing, because you voted against that law. And they did not vote against that law because it was poorly drafted or improved or had certain errors that exist according to you, but because they were against the very philosophy of the Housing Law, they were against guaranteeing citizens a place to live. And that's why they voted against it. Beyond that you now take advantage of the doubts that some other groups sow about this law to raise that question and say "yes, you were against it, but we already said that this law could bring problems." No, the problem comes from the Basque Government and its unwillingness to develop this law accordingly. Because the Socialist Group's initiative and the UPyD initiative that was registered at the time do not arise because the Housing Act contains errors, but because it is clear the will of the Basque Government not to respect its spirit and its letter. And of course, what is brought here is an initiative to remind you "Hey, there is a Housing Law, we have already done the corresponding work in the presentation and in the commission, that law was passed and therefore, what is appropriate is to apply it rigorously". Therefore, you did not oppose the Housing Act because it contained errors, but because you opposed and opposed that the right to decent and adequate housing be considered a subjective right. The Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Government, we can remember, did everything possible to ensure that the law did not go forward, did everything possible during the process of doing so and now too. He said that this law would cause a worldwide calling effect. He said that the adoption of this Housing Act would result in the need for serious social cuts. The Basque Government spoke at the time that the adoption of this Housing Act was going to bring very serious budgetary problems. It was all false, it was all false, it was a matter of political will. And to this day, we can remember, there are thousands of empty floors in the hands of the Administration while there are people living on the street. And this cannot be allowed, this has to be changed. And we have the instrument, which is the Housing Act. What is lacking is political will, and of course also budgetary resources, because social rights are guaranteed by public money. And there are several options, allocating public money to what is really important, to health, to education, to housing, or public resources can be allocated to other people. It's a matter of political will. Recently, according to the data we have, a government of a Basque institution, in particular the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, years ago, condemned millions of debts to a football team, tens of millions of euros. That's wasting public money. If instead of making those political decisions for the benefit of a few, resources were actually allocated to the important, there would be no problem. It is indeed a matter of political will. They don't insist on the idea that it's a bad law, that it contains mistakes, no. It's a matter of political will. If you want, you can. And it is obviously a priority to guarantee Basque citizenship a place to sleep every night, I think this is a priority. It should be, at least, and for us it is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians, Mr. Altaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u34	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Firstly, in view of the development of the group's position, we will say that we are going to ask for the split vote by points. We shall vote in favour of points three and seven. The third point, because we agree that priority should be given to the location of families or living units in dwellings belonging to the public rental park managed by the Government, in comparison with the allocation of the economic benefit. And we also agree with point seven that within three months a plan is being developed to ensure that housing owned by the Basque Government, which has been empty for more than one year, is intended for social rental under the Housing Act, which, as has been said as an active and passive measure, we make our own Housing Act. Another is the problems it raises in its application or development. Mr. Itxaso, don't shake your fleas with this thing. The problem lies in the wording you gave to that text, in the power also to some extent to refer it to the Government in this area. Because that is the key, in the relations of legislative power and how the regulatory power is distributed between Parliament and the government. In this case, the Housing Act empowers the Government to determine the criteria for the implementation of subjective law and leaves it to the Government for its progressive expansion. It is empowered for the determination of the minimum age for registration, as referred to in article 9, and it is empowered for the determination of income limits. And on the endless problems, Mr Itxaso, which arise with this regulation that you have cited, I must say that, according to my particular accounts, 44 referrals are made in the bill for its regulatory development. And, Mr Itxaso, for once the legislator dares to introduce something about it, which is the provision in the transitional provision, the truth is that it has created a huge problem. Reference has been made to the fact that this Government makes cuts in this area. And I believe it is clear that the supplementary housing benefit approved by this political group in 2008 covers groups in need of housing rental assistance in a broader way than the subjective right to housing regulated by you in your proposal. The subjective law introduced in the Housing Act, in its legal regulation, means cuts for the collectors of the PCV, we said it at the time and we say it now. The problem is not the draft decree, the problem is the Housing Act. And it's still curious that those who accuse the government of practicing these cuts are the first cutters. They also said that this law would put an end to the problems of evictions, and according to my news, there has also been no person who has taken up those measures established by law. False expectations have been created and it is now also evident that they have placed the perceivers of the PCV in serious pressure, because many of these perceivers cannot, as I say, meet the requirements of the Housing Act. In that sense, the correct thing was to say before, in our view, is to amend the law, because the interpretation of the law does not allow for its modification, as proposed here. And finally, on the will of the legislator and his spirit, the will is reflected in the drafting of the law, in the texts. Therefore, the first thing is to read what is written. If the term is clear, it must be in the grammatical sense: to be validly inscribed in the Register, says article 9, and with a minimum age of four years, I insist, says the transitory fourth. Therefore, if the decree is to abide by the spirit of the law, it would be necessary to incorporate the legal text as it currently exists. And with regard to the will of the legislator, if we stick to the background of the law, it was also the will of the legislator to leave this issue unsettled when it was required to do so by our group. That silence, that mutis for the forum, is also the will of the legislator, Mr Itxaso. And more than the will of the legislator, in our view in this matter we can speak of the clumsiness of the legislator, which manifests itself in a deficiency of the subjective right of housing, in the non-establishment of a transitional regime for the supplementary provision of housing, in the derogatory legislation, which generates a situation of very important regulatory confusion that undermines the principle of legal certainty. Look at the game that this Housing Law is giving, which in just six months since its entry into force, we already have, apart from the sword of Damocles from the unconstitutionality resource, which we will see in the next few days to see how it ends, two modifications have already occurred: one, the one made in the Budget Law, and the other, last week, in the amendment of the Law on Taxes and Public Prices. And another that is coming, so it is announced by Mr Maeztu, that in this sense comes to coincide with our position, that it is necessary to amend the law, does not apply to the regulatory development. That is to say, in that sense, you agree whether regulatory development is necessary or change the law. The problem, I insist, does not lie in the draft decree being drafted by the Government. The problem lies in the drafting of the Housing Act. And if these policies are to be changed, they must be changed, and if not, we must stick to what is written in it. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u36	Thank you again, Madam President. The doses of demagogy that on this matter can be poured into this rostrum the truth is that they do not cease to surprise. What happens is that when demagoguery is made by certain parties, it is disguised as very social and that, on the other hand, the rest of the groups are not interested in fulfilling social rights. Look, Mr. Maeztu, the Constitution doesn't nullify laws that collect rights, no. The Constitution establishes who has the competence to regulate certain matters. And we said here, this law affected the status of property, which the Constitution says competitively that it has to be regulated by the state, point. We already said it. In other words, it is not a question of whether it collects a right or not, it is not a question of whether the law is made right or not, it is a question of whether a number of powers are established that are reserved to the State, and one of those regulated by that law was so. Look, Mr. Maneiro, this group didn't just say because it was wrong to oppose the law. It is true that we said that it was not necessary or that it did not constitute a guarantee for the satisfaction of the right to housing that would be classified as a subjective right. But not only did we say it, it was that the reports that accompanied the bill itself, which later became the bill's proposal, established it. Because the question is not to put on a paper that there is a subjective right that can be claimed jurisdictionally. The question is that economically that can be done, that the institutions can deal with that. And I agree with you that we need to set priorities, and we need to say clearly where it is going to be taken from and what costs are not going to be incurred, or whether taxes are going to be raised, for example, in order to have more economic resources in order to guarantee that right. If not, however subjective it is enshrined in a legal precept, it cannot be enforced. And I agree with you that this right must materialize, first of all, by handing over the empty dwellings that the Government itself has or that have the public institutions itself, okay. As was also, we have always been in agreement with this group, in untying the supplementary housing benefit of the RGI, because it is true that there are people who can have sufficient resources and not have to go to the RGI, but nevertheless cannot guarantee their right to housing, and therefore should be separated. What happens is that what happens now, on top of it, is that two are incompatible. And look, Mr. Itxaso, I don't know if I went to four, to six... they owed me a lot of time, because we were going through deep debates on issues that, come on, we were going through philosophical turns, that we were going through symposia rather than paper debates. I only remember one thing, the few I went to, right, and it is that every time an amendment was proposed, it was an amendment from this group or from the Basque Nationalist group, you were looking at Mrs Beitialarrangoitia to see what she was doing, and if I gave her the place, you would vote yes, and if I did not give her the place I would vote no to the amendment. He even went on to say that you did not mind contradicting the very spirit of the initiative that you had presented, because all you wanted, you who spoke here the other day about the social clauses of putting on medals, you were fundamentally interested in putting on a medal, which is that you had proposed an initiative that later became a Housing Law and that that initiative was yours, even though it did not seem like anything later, by amendment of the EH Bildu group, to which it originally came out. And that's the consensus you were looking for. And you are talking about this government's public housing policy and I can agree that you can do much better. But what about the one your government had, Mr. Itxaso, what was it? Selling certain dwellings to a fund? Finishing the legislature without a housing law because the one they presented did not have enough consensus? Finally, I would like to make a reference to it, because in some of the mails we have received on the subject, we are talking about the supplementary housing allowance and how little EUR 250 results, which is reflected in this year's Budgets. Who has given the place to these Budgets? You Socialists, you. What's going on? That you want to blow and sip, and that can't be done. It is already electoral period and now everyone behind the banner. For, look, of many of the mistakes and many of the inefficiency and inefficiency of this government you are absolutely co-responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u37	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. A vote has been requested. Is that possible? Okay. We'll vote first, second, fourth and sixth points, the half-correction signed by Euskal Socialists and UPyD. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the opponents, 37; the whites, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u38	So they're accepted. Next we vote for three and seven points. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u39	The result is that two points are unanimously accepted. Third point in theme list: "The Companions of the American People, and the Misto-UPyD parliamentors as well as the S.C.P.S.P.M.s.s. "Cecina Central Central School, Cocina Central Magui SL, Eurest Colectividas SL, Eurestskdi SL, Tamar Las Arenas SA, Gasstromía Cantábrica SL and Gastronoía Vasca SApres." Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u40	Thank you, President. We propose, with the help of the People's Party, the setting up of a commission of inquiry to investigate politically the fraud of school eaters, and in particular the whole process leading up to the recruitment of direct management school eaters from the Basque Government to a number of companies included in the justification of the initiative. The Basque Competition Authority, by resolution dated 4 February 2016, sanctions the eight companies for having carried out, for at least 10 years, a concerted practice of sharing the market in the provision of direct management school dining services of the Basque Government with an amount of EUR 18 million. I mean, for acting like a cartel all those years. In particular, the Basque Competition Authority imposes a series of fines ranging from half a million euros to, in some cases, more than 6 million euros to, as I say, each of the companies mentioned there. The Basque Competition Authority declares in its decision that the conduct of these companies constitutes a very serious infringement of the Competition Law, which prohibits any concerted practice between companies which is intended or by default to restrict competition in the market. The Department of Education has called for tenders for the provision of the catering service from 2003 to 2014. These invitations to tender are made in two stages: in the first stage, the undertakings confirm their capacity to provide the service; in the second stage, they must compete to obtain the contract for one of the lots. With regard to the first phase, the company responsible for certifying and granting approval was for many years Arab Laboratories, apparently the private adviser to many of the approved companies. In addition, this company is not registered in the register of certification companies authorised to audit quality systems, it appears that this company is only authorized to perform food analysis, without meeting the requirements that would be required to grant approvals that were a prerequisite for obtaining recruitment from the Department of Education of the Basque Government. The people who checked and visited the facilities to carry out the approval of the companies were Javier Arrese and Fernando Pérez, the first on behalf of the Department of Education, and the second as director of Arab Laboratories. Arab laboratories and the technician of the Department of Education, without accredited qualifications, were the ones who determined which companies could compete to obtain public contracts, and finally the same companies were always chosen. The Basque Competition Authority considers the practice agreed by the abovementioned companies to be accredited for the distribution between them of the provision of school dining services. The Basque Competition Authority considers it demonstrated that, for at least 10 years, the sanctioned companies have renounced competition in all the lots for which they had been granted capacity, by means of an orchestrated bidding pattern, with the aim of achieving a lot sharing. Thus, the approved companies were able to carry out a practice that guaranteed them the provision of the catering service in the same lot and at an altered price upwards, so that the sanctioned companies were the only ones to obtain, first, the approval that allowed them access to the contract, and then to conclude the distribution of the public resources. This practice has been able to involve a breach of more than EUR 200 million of public money, a breach of public money for the Administration and, therefore, for the citizens as a whole, however much the Basque Government, and in particular the Education Adviser here, insist that the damage is only the Administration, pretending to leave the citizens out of the damage suffered, the last pay of all this scandal. These facts have brought an extraordinary benefit to companies. It is unlikely or directly impossible or difficult to believe that all this could have happened without the consent, participation, complicity or passivity of the politicians responsible for the administration of public money. This is what we want to investigate through the committee of inquiry that we propose to create and launch, in order to clear the corresponding political responsibilities. It is true that we have discussed this issue recently in this Parliament, but we now intend to take a step further, in our view, a necessary step; in particular, as I say, to set up this committee of inquiry. We do not see that there are any arguments to oppose it, and we therefore trust that the initiative will be adopted in this plenary. On 3 March, a transaction signed by Basque Nationalists, Basque Socialists and EH Bildu on this subject was approved. The Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to inform the Prosecutor's Office of the resolution of the file of the Basque Competition Authority, so that this value could be derived from criminal liability. To consider whether property damage has occurred and to ensure that legal services initiate as many legal actions as may be necessary to compensate the public coffers for the damage caused. And to intensify the work with the different agents involved, so that during the current contract they analyze and decide the steps to take with the ultimate objective of adapting the model of management of the dining rooms, so that, if necessary, each public center can come to choose the way to manage its dining room. In our view, it was an insufficient parliamentary mandate. We want to open – and this is what we propose – a commission of inquiry to determine the political responsibilities of what has happened here. One thing is criminal responsibility and another is political responsibility. What we want, of course, is to set up a committee to identify the political responsibilities that may come to light in all that has to do with what has happened on this subject in recent years. The scandal affects the largest contract of the Department of Education of the Basque Government. It is strange that no one knew anything or that this cheating form of acting on the part of the companies concerned was perceived. What we propose in any case is that it be investigated, to know whether this was actually known and preferred to do nothing, or whether simply the politicians were not up to it and did not realize what was happening. In both cases, we understand that there may be political responsibilities, that is, by action or omission. We are talking about the biggest fine ever imposed by the Basque Competition Authority, we are talking about a breach of public money of more than 200 million euros. In response to the statement of the Education Adviser insisting that families have not been affected, it should be recalled that the Basque Competition Authority itself points out that it is difficult to sustain that if there has been an overprice, it has not, at least in part, affected families. Regardless of whether this course of action will be corrected in the future, regardless of whether these things cannot happen again from now on, it is up to us to locate the politicians responsible for these fraudulent practices mentioned above. We do not want to prejudge anyone, but what we want is to investigate, as I say, with the aim of clarifying all political responsibilities. Since all groups are supposed to agree that there must be maximum transparency, I understand that there are no compelling reasons to vote against this initiative. But, finally, this may not happen today. If there are groups voting against this initiative, they will have to explain to the public why they do not want the truth to be known about what has happened in this very serious matter. Nothing more and thank you very much. And thanks in particular to Mr Oyarzabal for the joint presentation of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u41	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Oyagla, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. And again to bring up a matter that we believe is of the utmost importance, the fraud that an applicant company exposed, which saw how competition after competition were the same companies that carried the lots of recruitment of school canteens. Fraud that was also corroborated by the Basque Competition Authority, which put the biggest fine in history in the Basque Country, in fact, 18 million euros. But a fine that is very cheap for companies, because companies that already had an important industrial benefit in the presentation of the applications, also applied an extra cost that produced an added benefit of more than 200 million euros. And if you apply a fine of less than 10% to a profit of more than EUR 200 million, you will still be interested in making a cartel or all the cartels that you can, in this contract and in another, because it has been seen that here the concertation of companies comes free. It is true that the Government is determined to look elsewhere. And when he had the opportunity to prove that it had nothing to do with this case of fraud and corruption, he decided to modify the basis of the competition to, by changing it, continue to benefit the same companies. Promote a tailor-made suit so that it is four companies that take the 18 lots of school dining rooms. In particular, one company, ladies and gentlemen, after all the trouble with this subject in the last five years where we have brought this matter here a lot of times, the PNV that has decided to get its hands on it here in autumn by changing the basis of the competition, has decided that in order to diversify the matter and not to take the 10 lots always the same seven companies, has divided it into 18 lots, listen. And they don't know who's taking the 18 lots? Listen, because the same four companies, this time there are only four, because of the seven, three are the same, as we have explained here many times, they have 100% capital, they belong to the same group, three different names are the same company. Listen, the same company has managed, thanks to the work of the PNV to clarify this matter, to get away from 18, 9 lots. Half of the recruitment of school eaters in our Community is carried out by a single company, fined by the Basque Competition Authority and denounced for fraud. And it turns out we've decided to give you half of the Basque country's school dining contract for the next four years. And the other three friends of this company, with whom they've been making deals to split the rest of the lots, take three each. The large one takes nine lots and the three, which serve as a cover to keep carrying the lots at a maximum price, and applying a 30% surcharge, as they take three lots each. So four companies have taken the last recruitment for the next four years. Then we are faced with a millionaire fraud, where the technicians, as Mr. Maneiro recalled, who supervised the process during all these years, 18 years – listen, that is, that the Competition Authority has analyzed the last 10, but that is that when we asked for papers we have seen that this was done for 18 years – and the same companies took the dough for 18 years. Of course, it is true that in recent years much more, because it is true that in recent years the service of school dining has been extended, it has become almost widespread. It is true that the contract is far more substantial in recent years than in the first. For 18 years, however, it has been the same companies that have been carrying out all the recruitment of school canteens. And it turns out that the system was the same, even though it was always the same ones that carried lots at maximum price, and it turns out that the technicians who supervised the process were the same: Arab Laboratories. Occasionally a company that advised these others that then took the hirings. It turns out that they were the same companies, that they were the same technicians, and it turns out that the political leaders of the department's largest contract did not even look at it. They are dedicated to other things, those responsible in the end are in other important matters, why are they going to look at the department's biggest hiring? Hey, well, we've taken care of other things. No, the department's biggest hiring since they're still carrying it. Look, they're reporting that they're always the same, and we're getting very expensive, 30% more than the market value, which is weird. Well, it'll be well done. And there comes a government, there comes another councilman, and there is no doubt about anyone, but to see if what has happened to us is that we have sinned not to look where we had to look. Because let's see if it's our fault now that we support Patxi López's investiture. It's just that the counselor tells us to see if the responsibility for this dining room is with the PP because it supported Patxi López's investiture. Of course, for not having looked before. Of course, they didn't have to look, the ones we had to look at were the others, we didn't look at before. But just in case the PNV has decided to keep carrying it for the next four years. And well, we're going to analyze if we do Bildu a favor and distribute some garden and decide that in some ikastolas buy them leeks and vegetables to not know which cottages. And so we are already pleased with this that, well, we are going to make a mixed system, so that they are the same companies, so that they continue to carry 200 million, but, well, that's how we distribute a little bit, and that the food is bought from some trusted homeowners. And so no one protests. And counselor, since you're here and there's no lehendakari, this is a real hairstyle. Because yesterday they entered a mayor's house, listen, the mayor this morning on a radio said, I have a 120-metre floor, they entered 14, he said 13, with helmets, machine guns, shields, we were my wife and I, and they entered to record the floor, because they say that I don't know how many years ago there is a complaint that a license was given for a disco. And here, I'm not saying that you're being brought home with helmets and shields, but here we're talking about fraud because it's because a gentleman in Granada was granted the right to open a party room and listen, here there's been a profit to a company. Look, it's just that here you've been benefiting, in this thing we've looked at, we're going to start looking at more things, of course, because if it's the fault of those we don't look at, we're going to start looking at more things. Here it has been benefiting the same companies with more than 200 million euros. And knowing that they were benefiting, the recruitment system has been modified, for what? Well, it's been modified to make a tailor-made suit. And we're going to explain it to you, because we're already repeating Mr. Maneiro's arguments, because we're not going to repeat them. But, indeed, we must remember here, and that is why we bring the request of the committee of inquiry, that it is impossible for this to happen without the connivance of the Administration, that there has been a breach of the public archives here, that it has not harmed the Administration alone, that it has harmed society as a whole, which is where all these resources come from in the end. I think it's important that we know what the PNV has done and what it is that leads us to think that here is something to investigate and that there is a cat locked up. Not only do we need a commission of inquiry to shed light and to get to the end, and to find out if you want to get to the end or not. And it gives us the feeling that you do not want to get to the end, because when we have analysed what you have done to change the system and that there is no such fraud, we have seen that what you have really changed are a number of issues, which we are going to tell you here so that some parliamentarians who are not on the subject know. Well, look, they've changed so that instead of Arab Laboratories, which was a joke thing, which for 18 years were the ones who decided which companies could bid and which companies didn't, now does Aenor, which is a more prestigious thing. But to Aenor, who put him there to make the filter, they have said, "Hey, you from Aenor, look, you have to decide to see which companies pass the procurement filter," "and this, on what criteria?", "well, with these criteria, these are the bases." And they lay a foundation for them, that Aenor's take them and say, "Let's see, companies, well now instead of 10 lots 18, let's split." And then it is demanded, in order for there to be a free competition, that there be two different companies bidding on each lot, and it turns out, hear, that in lots 11, 13, 14, 15 and 17 only one company, the same company, well, with two different names, the same company. And it is awarded, that is to say, its own modification is not being carried out. And in the 10 only one company participates, and then, to conceal, they say "no, this, the 10 we will not award." And then they say, "And then who does?", "Ah, then the one who did it before," that is, the one who has presented himself. And then she keeps doing the same thing. So, Auzolan... The names of the companies must be said, but, well, they are in the presentation, for the media already know that they have it in the proposal. Auzolan has taken five lots, counselor, presenting himself as the only company. And you yourself, on the basis of the competition, said that that could not be accepted, that this time you limited that possibility to demand free competition. For she took five lots, and presented herself. But then he introduced himself to other people, with friends, with friendly companies. For what? So that the final four take the same lot. And what did they say to Aenor, besides demanding free competition from him, which they then failed to enforce? In order to be able to show up, a certain billing had to be required. So high, so high, that practically only those four companies can secure that billing in food catering. And that's weird. Of course, these four companies, 90% of their turnover, are due to the hiring given to them by the Department of Education, thanks to the hiring of the department they have that million invoicing. Of course, no other company in our Community has that billing in order to be able to contribute to the batches. In addition to demanding size, what you do in the end is an approach that allows these companies to continue to carry lots at maximum prices. And in addition, they tell Aenor, "listen, moreover, for maximum transparency, here the one who wants to sign up to these lots, has to tell us in advance who it is and what lot it goes to, so that the companies that have been carrying it raw so far know what lot they are going to have competition in." Because listen, the companies here are always used to bidding at the highest price, and we're not going to do it over closed. No, no, here we are going to give the advantage to these companies that have been accused of fraud, we are going to give them the advantage that in the lots in which they participate, if someone new comes to compete with them, we want to know who and what lot. And we find that just in the lot where a competitor was found, the same companies that bid at 2.76, 2.77, 2.78 in the price ceilings, it turns out that just in the lot where an unsuspecting person tried to compete with them, in that Auzolan, which takes half of the hiring, decides that instead of presenting an envelope at 2.78, 2.79, which is what it usually takes, in that which has competition it presents it at 2.22. What a coincidence. And why in that lot? Because the new bases of the Basque Government have decided that here, in order to compete with these four, we have to say who is coming and what lot they are going to compete for, so that these four know that if we have to make some down payment, they will be right on the down payment to keep the hiring going. This shame that is happening and that after I don't know how many explanations already – I've tried to be didactic so that each one of us will find out what this is about – you keep telling us that you here have nothing to say. Look, it's the parliamentarians who didn't look at it for 18 years. There have been other advisors here. Hey, it's gonna be the PSOE's fault, Eusko Alkartasuna who was there. Listen, no, here the responsibility above all is for those who already know the complaints – and that comes from this legislature, counselor – this legislature is when we have known that there really is evidence here that this is a tomo and lomo fraud; that here we can be talking about political, but criminal, responsibilities and that, knowing that, there is already a firm ruling from the Competition Authority. And that, knowing that, not Eusko Alkartasuna, the other, the one on the bike, the PSOE who passed by and did not lift any carpet in four years, listen, no. It is that you, knowingly, change this approach, change the competition, so that you take it to yourself. And in addition, to be taken away by the same ones who, even in breach of their own bases, those that have just been modified, bring you without care. Even if the bases have been breached, you continue to hand them over to the same four companies. And we want to know through a commission of inquiry why. Why have you decided that, despite all this trouble, which also affects you in the media, why you continue to be interested in being carried by the same four companies, that you continue to benefit from all this million dollars that we give public money to the school eaters, that you continue to benefit, despite the wear and tear, the same four companies and that, even though they fail to meet their new bases, they continue to do so. You have to explain to us why you are committed to continuing to benefit the same companies, counselor. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u43	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Passing over to the non-correction teams, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u44	Thank you, President. In some ways, as has been said before, the debate that we have today and its conclusion is very determined by the discussion on the same matter that we had in the plenary on 3 March. The position of our group on market-sharing practices in which, according to the Basque Competition Authority, companies that supply the menus for the direct management of public schools have been involved, has not changed since March 3 until here. Our group has always been in favour of setting up committees of inquiry in this House when there have been clear reasons to justify it. We have been the driving force behind most of those that have been launched, and we have supported others in this and the previous legislatures. On this occasion, however, we are not going to support the initiative of the People's Group and UPyD, not because we take seriously the episode of practices against business competition and the illicit benefits it has been able to bring to the concerted enterprises. If we do not do so, it is because we believe that the work of a parliamentary committee of inquiry would hardly be able to reach conclusions that are very different from the points that were already adopted in this House on 3 March, not to mention that this committee would be practically inoperative for the little or very little time that may be left, as the case may be, to this legislature in which we are in. It is stated in the initiative that the essential objective of the proposed committee would be to clarify how many responsibilities fall within the scope of parliamentary research, which would obviously affect the administration. Well, the specialized body to which repeated references are made in all the speeches, which has brought the case to light and severely punished the eight companies for making cartels, has also expressly pointed out, something that has been forgotten to comment to one and the other of the previous ones, that there has been no indication of complicity or favoring the conduct penalized by the education administration. Here, as in all cases, when you read something, you have to read the full text, in order not to try to mislead or manipulate the information. "No treatment of favour or irregularity has been detected in the procurement and award of catering services." The Socialist Group is not saying this, as the report by the Basque Competition Authority itself says. Therefore, if the Basque Competition Authority, with the specialization, the means and the time devoted to it, has not come to point out some kind of responsibility, let us say no longer of connivance, in the departments of Education which called the competitions or in the contracting body which awarded them, if neither have found irregularities the courts, which also studied the remedies of the company that denounced the case, because it was excluded from the competitions, we hardly understand that a parliamentary investigation can go further. This does not mean that this Parliament and its members will have to stand idly by in the face of collusive practices affecting a service provided directly by the Basque Government and in a very sensitive area, such as the feeding of 93,000 schoolchildren in public schools. Not at all. Because the decision of the Basque Competition Authority has shown us that the current rules on public procurement, which are increasingly stringent and guaranteed in terms of free competition, do not pay enough attention, and this particularly affects the concept of competition, i.e. the possibility of agreements in the shadow of companies competing for a public service to take advantage of. And these collusive behaviours that restrict competition not only harm companies that may be excluded by a market share, but can also affect those who pay for that service at an uncompetitive price, in this case the Administration and the families that have to cover the cost of the menus served. And precisely because we did not stand idly by, one month ago, on 3 March, we agreed with the Nationalist Group and the EH Bildu group to urge the Government to send the ruling issued by the Basque Competition Authority to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, to examine whether the conduct that this body considers proven and that penalizes its scope also has other punishable responsibilities. As I said then, so that we do not remain in the field of sterile suspicions and explanations; resolution, by the way, which I believe has no precedent in this Parliament. In other words, in addition to violating the rules of free business competition by dividing the market, without bidding in prices to be made with lots to tender, as proven by the Basque Competition Authority, have the eight contracting companies engaged in other unlawful conduct? Let those who have the capacity and the ability to do so, who are the Office of the Prosecutor, value it and act accordingly as well. And if justice finds any other unappreciated responsibilities so far, this House will always be able to take letters on the matter. This same week, as we have been told, the legal services of the Basque Government have transferred to the Office of the Prosecutor of the Basque Country the resolution of file 6/2013 of the Competition, as it was urged in this Parliament on 3 March, so that the Office can also assess whether there has been a property damage punishable by the concertation of prices, which would affect families, who pay 65% of the price fixed for the school menu, and the Department of Education, which takes care of the remaining 35%. The possibility of introducing into the terms of contracts clauses designed to guarantee competition between competing undertakings is also being considered, as suggested by the Basque Competition Authority itself. And on the other hand, we are waiting, and we are taking this opportunity to remind the Government, to set up a committee in which all the sectors involved can study the feasibility or not, and under what conditions, of applying other forms of management of the schools' dining rooms. That is exactly what was agreed a month ago on the issue. We sincerely believe that all these steps are far more effective for the purpose intended, than setting up a commission of inquiry, which I understand and share that you, from a political point of view, are the People's Group and the UPyD. Then I will give my assessment in the reply as to what I think of the presentation of this committee of inquiry and the real reasons behind this proposal. In any case, as I have pointed out, it is difficult for such a body, this Parliament, to go beyond where the Competition Authority has gone, even if its nature is different, and of course it will not be able to go where the Office of the Prosecutor can do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u45	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Gather the Representative of the EH team, Mr. Lazarus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u46	Good morning, everyone. Whether we investigate the frauds of the schools in the legislature, this is the subject we have in hand. He's known to have been cheated, and no one doubts about that. The Euskal Command has put in 18 million euros fines for the five catering companies which serve the dining room service in the schools, for the distribution of the market for at least ten years. So we can say that the contests we've made for the fun of the New Year were contestless contests, because the casting-pres have agreed to share the cake for all these years, always with the purpose of making the maximum economic benefits. 854 million has been assigned in the past 10 years and if we compare it with private network, that is, if we consider how much money is paid for service in private networks, we can say that there has been a fraud for 200 million euros in the past 10 years. We've heard this joke about the working conditions in the public network are better than in private, and that the service is somehow more expensive. But we can't even compare to the fact that the funk distributes at day 93,000 menus and the ability that it provides to negotiate and that the schools of private networks have nothing like that. So, with 200 million euros fraud, higher than that for the last ten years, they've been fined $16 million dollars. Someone will say that business has succeeded, that it is worth fraud and continuing to do it, and then pay the fine. And there's no need to say that fraud has paid for fun, so we've paid all the people, and that my parents paid twice over. And it's all over last year's new phone call that the problem is already solved, 7 million saved. And we say no. Something has changed, a step has taken place, but the crack of the fraud remains open. Even if there were 7 million saved, there's still more to save, there's three million more to save. And making macro contracts with catersingpres opens the doors to the fraud. And if this problem is really to be solved, it is necessary to change the pattern into the management of the schools, and in this sense there is a greater decision about the management of the food-rooms. Around the fraud, we agreed to ask you to take this case to the prosecutor. "Mornly announced that this week he will hand over all the papers to the prosecutor." Well, it's good to investigate this subject from the prosecutors, but we can see that even the legislatures are able to investigate, because both investigations are supplementary to each other. Since what has happened is really very serious, it seems to us that we have created it to the people in order to explain what has happened to us. And that's why EH Collect will protect him from becoming an investigator. Before that Mr. Pastor has given several explanations on PSOE, in order not to protect the origin of this commission, but you have left some explanations for the second round. The explanation given in the first round struck me as more excuse for the belief or fear that this committee can do politically harm to your party, or that you may feel uncomfortable with fear, and therefore that the best thing is not to be cut off as quickly as possible and to keep the receiver running. It seems to us that we have no political cares to protect a committee of inquiry in such a situation. He who has nothing to hide has nothing to do with a committee or to feel uncomfortable there. In any case, the Representative of the EAJ will also receive the word, and when he hears his arguments, we will answer you in the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u47	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Eubertarians represent the group, Mr Arieta-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I'll try to solve this tótum revolutum that PP and UPyD brought us here today. I am pleased that we do not debate yes or no to a commission of inquiry. In order for all of us to be clear on this issue, we must first focus on the origin of the issue. The award of the services of the school canteens was made by means of a contract which had two distinct parts. The first was the selection of undertakings which could provide such services, and the second was the award of the lots already determined to such undertakings by means of derivative contracts which were to be carried out for four years with the previously selected undertakings. Let's start with this second part. When the current Government enters, it is faced with a complaint by collusive practices of the contracting companies of the dining services that were selected in 2011. In view of this, the Government acts through the body set up for this purpose, which is the Basque Competition Authority, and after analysing the matter, it makes a resolution condemning the above-mentioned companies for collusive practices. In addition to this, the Basque Government is studying whether property damage has occurred, in order, where appropriate, to carry out the legal actions necessary to compensate the public coffers of the years and damages caused. Mr. Lalabaster, you said they couldn't afford to pay fines to companies. How come you didn't mention this? You signed this. Why didn't you say that? It has also completely changed the mode of procurement, which has resulted in significant savings. But since the result is not entirely satisfactory, it continues to analyze the steps to be taken to improve the dining room management model, including the possibility that each public center can choose how to manage its dining room. A pilot project is already running for this purpose. This last was agreed on in 2011 by the Aralians and us, and we voted for EA. What happened was that the Socialist Party and the People's Party had the majority and imposed their opinion and the compromise did not come out. It should also be noted that what has happened since 2011 was the opposite route, and that the centers, instead of asking for the proper autonomous management, what they asked was to enter the general system. But the current Government continued to work on this, following that agreement that we adopted among the various groups, although it did not come out, until the current pilot project was launched. Finally, the Basque Government has already referred, Mr.Lazarobaster, to the Prosecutor's Office the resolution of file 6/2013 of the Basque Competition Authority, in order to make it valuable if criminal liability can be derived. In this regard, is there anyone else? I imagine no one here will ever tell us, as we were told at the time, that we were defending companies. Because, of course, I imagine the companies will be saying, "Please, let others defend me." It will probably be why you did not vote on these measures the previous time. Well, then let's go to the first phase of the framework contract. This is the connection used by the proposers of the proposal to slide the suspicions of political corruption with which they justify their request, which I refuse to call a commission of inquiry, so I will then explain. This first phase or first contract of the framework contract that was in force until 2011 – note the date – consisted of the selection of the contracted companies. This is where the proponents focus the suspicions of corruption, focusing their argument on the activity of the Arab Laboratories and on the representative official of the Department of Education, obviating, by the way, that in 2010 that official replaces that of the previous years. Therefore, this official acted in the award of 2011, the last year in which the recruitment was carried out, which is now under suspicion of corruption. When the present Government begins its course, it finds itself with regard to this contract with which there had been an application before the administrative body for contractual remedies, which rejected its claims, and subsequently before the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, Chamber of the Dispute-Administrative, No. 582/2012, which gives judgment No. 13/2014, rejecting the applicants' claims and in which it responds to each of the claims, including all those relating to the official who is placed under suspicion and to Arab Laboratories, which are the link that is sought with the possible corruption of the Government. In this judgment it is clear to me that there is no unlawful act, not even worthy of reproach to the Administration, neither to this one nor to the previous ones; to this one, so I will say, by the dates, and to the previous ones, because clearly so say the courts themselves. This is repeated in the resolution of the Basque Competition Authority. Therefore, gentlemen, at no time has the government, as the courts themselves and the Basque Competition Authority say, ever had any suspicion, even suspicion, of corruption from the outset. As you can see, there are two aspects I want to highlight: one, the absolute cleanliness of government action; and the other, no less important than what I will say below, which is the date of the conclusion of such a contract for the selection of companies, which is where you put the emphasis and where you put the possible plot. And it is that the date on which the contract was concluded, which is 2011, because the subsequent contracts, on which the Basque Competition Authority also pronounces, are contracts derived from this one and there is no new selection of companies, are the companies already contracted and on the basis of the specifications determined. However, in an obsessive way, and today it has been clearly seen from Mr Oyarzabal's intervention, the proponents put their greatest effort in involving the present government, it seems that they do not care too much, when it is materially impossible, because it began its mandate more than a year after that selection procedure. The great argument used by Mr Oyarzabal in the previous plenary session on the issue in this House is that on the dates on which the events took place the Socialist Party was governed with the cooperation of the People's Party, but it was in charge of the PNV. Apparently the PNV wrote them the papers and they both accepted it without hesitation, according to Mr. Oyarzabal. This argument would be an example of absurdity and produce laughter, in addition to shame, if it were not because it received, as I see it today, the echo of some other group, EH Bildu in this case, to put forward for purely electoral reasons a commission of inquiry. As you can see here today, the proponents are not asking for a commission of inquiry, what they ask is that they be given a platform to spread their own filth and soil Basque politics, putting it at the same level of corruption as the Spanish one, hence the comparison with the EREs of Andalusia, Bárcenas, Pujol, etc. It is a purely electoralist position, but, of course, all of this does not take place if the present Government is not dirty, although, as I have shown with everything explained and even if it was only by the dates of the events, it is impossible that it is involved in the alleged plot. Therefore, we are not before the debate of a committee of inquiry, yes or no, but rather an attempt to defile Basque politics by those who are covered with filth and political corruption. For this they ask for a watchman high enough so that the fan they have set up can extend its own crap to all Basque politics. Today Mr Oyarzabal has once again had a lying and mendacious intervention, when he talks about the new recruitment. And she is a liar and a beggar because the last recruitment, when the procedure starts, none of the companies that have participated had any sanction on her. The procedure begins earlier. And besides, the Basque Competition Authority has not pronounced the absolute on this last contract that you have tried to put here in value above all, for nothing. You were talking about corruption and asking for the commission of inquiry, you were asking for everything that happened before. And in this case you, with an absolutely false and biased reading, because these companies were not condemned, are trying to involve with this. Something that has nothing to do with this and that has no fault either of the Basque Authority of Competition or of anyone else, but of you. Para terminar state privatera intervención, tell Bilari that a minimum condition is required to ask for an instigation committee, at least to be corruption suspects. And you know it's not a case. So we'll have to see your consistency. The Oygenerian interference has made it very clear what they're doing today. Then I don't understand that request to protect you. Hori esan Ostean, I want to finish, Mr Oyarzabal, Mr Maneiro, by asking you a question. How is it possible that you, who defend with a collusive practice, no longer of companies, but of the Administration itself, do not per se imply the existence of political corruption, because you defend that at the top, but try to involve this Government in a matter of collusive practice not of the Administration, but of some companies when the dates of the facts themselves prevent such involvement? The collusive acts of the Administration itself do not arouse in you any doubt of corruption, and this case does? Mr Maneiro and Mr Oyarzabal, please explain this to me, but with a better argument than that it was the PNV that imposed on the government of the PSOE, supported by the PP, the contractual conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u49	Thank you, President. Yes, we are discussing the constitution or not of a commission of inquiry, Mr Arieta, in case you have not yet found out. That is what we are promoting and what we are defending and what is finally going to be voted on, if a committee of inquiry is set up to identify any political responsibilities on this issue. It is not, in any case, a commission of inquiry that could analyse the possible filth behind this government of the Basque Nationalist Party, but in general what has happened in recent years in relation to this issue. Do not focus so much on this government or on the Basque Nationalist Party, because after all we are public servants here, we are not mere agents of a certain political party, we are public servants and, therefore, our purpose should be to defend the general interests of Basque citizens, which you never do in any of your interventions. Mr Arieta, I have not spoken at any time of corruption, I have not spoken at any time of plot, I have not spoken at any time of Bárcenas or Pujol. That's all you said. What I want is for a committee of inquiry to be set up to identify possible political responsibilities. You have indeed insisted on the word plot and the word corruption, perhaps because you know more than we do. But in any case we want to know the truth. I have been pointing out the reasons why the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group are going to vote against the creation of this committee of inquiry, against what has happened being investigated. It is said that a transactional has already been approved. Yes, but there was no question in that transaction of setting up a commission of inquiry. Some say, "We've already brought this matter to the prosecution." Yes, but criminal responsibility is different from political responsibility. There may be no criminal responsibility and there may be no political responsibility. And, therefore, we are talking about political responsibilities. Mr Arieta specifically said: "We are not defending companies. That's why we brought the matter to the prosecution." Yes, it is that perhaps you are defending certain political leaders or certain political parties, and that is why you do not want to set up a political inquiry committee. So, we do. It is also said as an argument to vote against investigating: "No favor has been found," says the Basque Competition Authority. Yes, but this is what the Basque Competition Authority says, and we believe that it is this Parliament that has to analyse all this. I believe that this is not a chamber subordinated to the Basque Competition Authority, it is a chamber that has full autonomy to propose something like this and actually carry out the work that is proposed. Therefore, the Basque Competition Authority says that no favour treatment has been found, not that there is no favour treatment. But in any case, I say that it is this Parliament that must determine whether there has been a favour or not and whether there has been a political responsibility or not. It is also said that there is not enough time for this committee of inquiry to carry out its work. It's one more excuse among all the others, Mr. Pastor. The Government itself is adopting bills even though it is aware that there is no material time for these bills to become laws. And it is also said that the recruitment system has been modified, which on the other hand is a new system that really doesn't change anything. That is to say, not one of these reasons justifies the vote against investigating what has happened in relation to this issue all these years, there is no reason. And you insist that this government has no responsibility. Even so, perhaps the former ones do. Let's take a look at it all. Of course, you say no, you say there are no political leaders, you already determine it. We say, man, there will be some responsible. We are talking about an economic failure of 200 million euros, we are talking about a fine imposed by the Basque Competition Authority of 18 million euros, we are talking about a clear resolution by the Basque Competition Authority that denounces that there has been a cartel here by certain companies to fill their pockets. There will be some political leader, Mr Arieta. But, in any case, our arguments are: some political leader will be. The arguments of the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group are: there is no political responsibility. Well, we're gonna set up the commission of inquiry, and that's how we get out of doubt. What fear are you of setting up that commission of inquiry? Some political leader will, indeed. Perhaps you know who those political leaders are. But in any case, let's go look into it. True intentions on the part of UPyD, Mr. Pastor? To clarify what has happened here, we have no other intention. And Mr Arieta, in that typical neighborhood language that characterizes him, speaks that our intention is to soil Basque politics and spread its filth. It is a shame for you to pose a similar thing again. At least, in our case, we want to know if there really is crap behind this story. We have doubts that there is filth behind the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. We have doubts, or we had doubts. Now we have fewer, because you are going to vote against the creation of the committee of inquiry, to cover up your possible filth. If they weren't afraid, they'd vote for it. And also, in this case, as in so many other similar cases, they have the support of the Socialist Group, which, in these cases or similar cases, always at the last moment and at the last second, comes out in defense of the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque caste, again you go out to defend the Basque Nationalist Party. Again you give the chance that all the possible filth that exists behind the Basque Nationalist Party will be covered up. Again the Socialist Group in defense of the Basque caste, called the Basque Nationalist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Oyagla, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. I've been trying to shed light on this for a long time. The truth is, Mr Arieta, every time you come down here, you try to mix it with other matters and other cases outside of here. Hey, let's talk about the Basque country. It is that this House is to control the government about the things that are happening here. I am a prominent parliamentarian. Look, in Álava also the most important case of corruption that has affected the Alavesa policy points to his party. There is much of the leadership of the Alava PNV accused in the largest corruption case we have known in the historical territory of Alava. That's what I know. My political references to filth as far as Álava is concerned point directly to his party. And I would like to hear about the things that are happening here, the things that are happening in Álava, the things that are happening in the Basque Country and what it has to do with the political responsibilities of our Community. Not that we are here to talk about the oranges of Valencia, which is what you want us not to address the issues that affect you as political leaders in our Community. We want this matter to be clarified, and if you had nothing to hide, you would allow this committee of inquiry to be set up. The Socialist Party and the PNV are trying to cover up this case, to cover up this fraud in the school canteens, in case they get splashed and do not want to shed light on this issue, they do not want to shed light on either the PNV or the Socialist Party, because what it is about is to clarify whether there are political responsibilities. The Basque Competition Authority, as its own name indicates, is responsible for discussing, defending free competition between companies and defending free competition in public contracts. The Basque Competition Authority has not begun to investigate whether there has been a favour treatment or whether there are public responsibilities, because it does not fall within its competence. He has simply come to investigate whether there has been any concertation between the companies. And he has shown that there has been. But there has not been in a particular case, in a particular competition, in a particular year, ladies and gentlemen. As it is the case that the Basque Competition Authority has denounced that there has been a prolonged concertation of companies here over time, which affects competitions in different years, in different legislatures and for 18 years, it is clear that we have sufficient elements of judgment to demand an investigation, because it is clear that there may be political responsibilities, whether by active or passive, by action or omission. Of course, there are sufficient elements of judgment, because they have always been the same companies, ladies and gentlemen, because we are talking about a billion-dollar fraud amounting to more than 200 million euros. These companies are brought to the pair by the Basque Competition Authority, what they want is to continue to earn those money year after year from the Department of Education's largest contract. And if in the next 10 years another 200 million more overprices are pocketed in the hiring, since within 10 years the Competition Authority will put another 18 million euros in them. But what we are interested in is why this long-term fraud is allowed, why when you have decided to change the procedure, you change it so that everything remains the same and that four companies take all the lots of the contract, and also at maximum prices in the most important lots. And, Your Honor, you tell me about the official. Listen, that's why we want the committee of inquiry, to know where everyone was, who these gentlemen were, why the company that decided to pass the filter and the approval of the bidding companies turns out that it was a company that was not registered in the register of certified companies authorized to audit quality systems, that's what we want to know, why. Why this official, who does not know whether he participated in a competition, in two or in three or in four, whether he participated in one is enough for us, why this official, who turned out to be the one who decided, there is no record that he has any qualifications to perform functions related to inspection or approval. Why is a staff member, whose only reference is that he is a computer, placed to decide on the approval of the Department of Education's largest food contract. That's what we want to know. And for that we demand a commission of inquiry. And if you deny the committee of inquiry, it means that you do not want to clear political responsibilities. You want to hide everything that happened. Not only that, they don't just want to cover up the biggest fraud affecting the recruitments of the Basque Government in recent times, they want – and that's what hurts us and what leads us to think that there is something else here – to remain the same companies that continue to benefit from these multimillion dollar recruitments. And I'm done, Madam President. Not only have you wanted it that way, you said, "Hey, it's that in the last contract that concerns this government, the Competition Authority has said nothing." Of course, the complaint to the Competition Authority concerned previous contracts. This contract has not been looked at by the Competition Authority. Man, as soon as he sees it and sees that it is the same as always that carry the same lots and at maximum price, something has to lead us to think that the Competition Authority will surely say the same thing. But the most important thing is that if you had said "you weren't marked yet when the contracts were taken away, but it turns out that these four companies have played again, you have taken back all the lots at maximum price." Listen, what we have demanded and have not done is: cancel those contracts, challenge that procedure, withdraw those contracts from those companies and recommence that competition. But you refuse to do so, you want to continue to benefit the same companies with multi-million dollar contracts. And that's what you have to explain, because that's the responsibility of the PNV. They cannot enter into the contradiction of "hey, look for responsibilities in the PSOE, in Eusko Alkartasuna, with us this is not going, it will be with the previous ones". Look, if there are responsibilities with the former, there are responsibilities and that is what we need to clarify. I'm done, Madam President. It seems to me that today that the PNV and the Socialist Party are preventing a committee of inquiry, of course it is disabling you to continue talking about transparency in the coming times. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u52	Thank you. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u53	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Oyarzabal, you certainly don't disqualify me from talking about transparency, you'd just miss it. And to Mr. Maneiro, a joke, isn't it?, this expression that you used here from the Basque caste, I don't know if it means that you're thinking of moving on to Podemos or it's just been an ex-abrupt verbal, because you buy them the speech. Look at you, we are not saying, much less, that Parliament must stand idly by while the Office of the Prosecutor and the judges intervene. It was this Parliament, not any other Parliament, that urged the Prosecutor's Office and that required the Government to refer the file to the Prosecutor's Office. I already know that the Basque Competition Authority understands only cases of competence, it is also true that it says that it has not appreciated signs of connivance of the Administration. But the prosecution can act on many more things, Mr. Oyarzabal. We do not tell the Prosecutor's Office to intervene to speak whether or not there has been free competition, that already says the report of the Basque Authority that there has been no competition. We ask you to investigate all the dossier that will be forwarded to you by the Basque Government. And if it determines that there has been no punishable action, it will have determined it, and if it determines that there are, this Parliament will have the opportunity to take whatever action it deems relevant, because it has been this Parliament that has urged the Government to put this file in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office to clear up responsibilities, of course, and whether or not property damage has been established. And this Parliament too, this Parliament, has not been left with our arms crossed, it has been the one that called for measures to promote competition and also for the possibility of other management models to be considered. Do you know what the problem is? That when this Parliament adopted that resolution on 3 March, you were absolutely uncomfortable. Proof of this is that you did not even support it, surprisingly, because you understood that you stood alone before that initiative. And also, as you dedicated yourself during the early days of this media campaign that you wanted to set up on the issue of dining, to raising concerns and doubts on the part of parents that they were charging them more than they should and that there was a scandalous difference between the price of the public dining service and the private school, and that is what you know is derived from the working and wage conditions of the workers who provide the service – yes, Mr Oyarzabal – in the dining rooms of the public school with the agreement of the General Administration and what they pay in the private one. If you want workers who serve in the public to worsen their conditions, say so, who cover less and work more, which is what happens in the private, as you know perfectly. In any case, I recognize you that you know how to give the assumptions appearance of truth, I recognize the merit, and also believe me that I even empathize with you and understand what you want to do. I understand that you need, like water in a desert, to give the impression that political corruption, which is something you have termed this problem, does not only affect you, that I see you in shell one day yes and another as well, but there are more people, because you need to be able to spread suspicion over everyone to lessen your guilt. I get it. And I understand that you personally and your party need to set up some kind of political campaign that will get you out of the hole where you alone got in. I understand that. But one thing is to understand it and another is that you ask me to pay you from this Parliament that campaign, and to collaborate with your contempt campaign and your campaign to extend the feeling that "you hear, it is not the PP alone that has problems of political corruption, here there are more matters of political corruption". And you already assume that there have been responsibilities here, that there has been collusion, that there have been bad practices. What has this Parliament done rather than urge the public authorities, the Office of the Prosecutor in this case, to investigate everything that derives from this dossier sent to it by the Basque Government? That's all it's up to me to investigate. And if other responsibilities derive from that investigation, you have no doubt that we will support it. And you also know perfectly well that this is postureo, because on the dates we are on, April 14, the day on which the Second Republic was proclaimed even if you do not celebrate it, there is very little time, if any, so that this commission of inquiry can have real effect. I do not know whether these gentlemen will dissolve or not to call early elections, but in any case, if it is not in May it will be next month, in June. Tell me what you expect to solve in a commission of inquiry in 15 days or in a month and a half at most, beyond taking advantage of the trip to get headlines in the media that put you in a political position a little bit more arid than you have. As I am not a member of the People's Party, and I believe that it is up to everyone to put up with their candle, I prefer you to put up with yours without the cooperation of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Ever since I collected, Mr. Lazarus, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u55	The casting companies pocketed 200 million euros for the last ten years. Two hundred million dollars is a lot of money, how many things can be done with 200 million, and also, during this interval of reduction and exploitation of rights. And it seems to us that in the fraud we have in hand, and that apart from the right cares that you can have, this congressman also has his cares. The law business is to keep track of the funk, to take over the control of fun. And before our eyes, it seems to us that the catering corporations have brought us a huge goal through several laws. And every one who has been sitting here and who has been sitting in the preceding laws ought to feel some part of the responsibility of it on our shoulders, because we were chosen by the citizens of Arba, Uscaia, and Gipuzia. And as soon as things have become ugly, when they have to act politically, what you want to do is to leave the matter in the hands of the prosecutor, and wash their hands here somehow, as if the Parliament had nothing else to do. And just as we're ready for photographs in sweet moments, so it's time to face them and, whatever it is, do what you need to do in these past few years to find out what's happened. At least that's what we owe the people. And the arguments you've been using not to generate the research committee, at least they seem to us very weak. You are, in some measure, admitting that you are afraid of the use which a political adversary may make with an investigating step. And here we know the situation in which PP is found, they find a fraud or a fraud in his house, day after day. And we know that when a fox who wanders hunger finds a beautiful chicken in front of him, he wants to take advantage of his chance, and that's what PP is doing at the moment with this foodbag. But are you afraid of that? Are you afraid of the use that PP could do it? It's not to be afraid. Some kind of political game has to be understood. And here it is not important that each group can make use of the steps of inquiry, and how this can affect each of us. What's really important here is to find out what's happened in the past few years with the catersing corporations, that's really important. Besides, from EAJ to Araba, Bizia, and Gipus, you do not want to defile yourselves with Spain. And that's why we have to do it, too, if you don't say no to the committee, so that we don't get infected, so we're different here. And I think of thousands of better examples not to infect Spain, and it is always one of the first to look at Spain and to stop comparing it with Spain. But to refuse a committee of inquiry to distinguish it from Spain seems to me rather inquisitive as an argument. And what we see between you and us is that we have a desire to inquire into what has happened, and that we are ready to set up a committee of inquiry. And you, on the other hand, have nothing but excuses to get rid of the subject as quickly as you can.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u56	Eskerrik asko, Lazarus yellow. Amaitzeko, Euzko Abertzaleak, Arieta-Araunabeñona jauna, zurea da hitza. ARIATA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak: Eskerrik asko. Azkenetik hasita, batzorde hau ez dela luckyuko approvedxatuz, jokatzeak to be the purest ez dauka paserik, Lazarus jauna, onartezina da. Zuek badaukazue aurrekari bat hemen. You opposed a commission of inquiry when it suits you and when it suits you, you oppose it. Therefore, nothing of such purity. Be careful, don't come and give these kinds of lessons here. Are we afraid? We're not afraid at all. What we don't want is to lie to the citizenry or leave for electoral calculations, because I want to believe that you are an electoral calculation, the possibility of leaving a halo of suspicion there against the PNV. For the rest, if it were not so and you were consistent, you should have acted long ago, if you say you have an ethical code, having made determinations. Because the other is that a commission of inquiry is only made if there are suspicions of political corruption. You know that's not the case. So say no, because this is not a committee of inquiry. Because the rest, I insist, you should have started acting a long time ago against people on your own bench, and you know it. If you don't, it's because you know there's nothing like that. But don't use this question electorally either, don't go pure, man, and tell others we're afraid. No, we don't want to lie to the citizen, and if we have a conviction on a subject, we defend it, and we defend that situation with conviction. With regard to you, Mr Maneiro, you are the pure, the clean, the defender of cleanliness. Look, first, at the Office of the Prosecutor when it analyzes, analyzes the whole, including the actions of the Administration, to see that the companies have not acted from the principle of legitimate trust. So don't take us all for fools by making you fools. And the same goes for the others who have been on this subject, Mr Oyarzabal and Mr Lazarus. Simply, they know what they have to analyze. What is not going to analyze anything here is the supposed committee of inquiry they want to do. If you already have all the conclusions written. What's he counting here? But look at your incoherence, Mr. Maneiro. You, the cleaner, in the budget debate do you know what you raised? That the Basque Authority had to be eliminated from the competition. And why? Because he was a little boy in the government to employ his associates. That is what you said in the budget debate. I don't think he denies it, because it's perfectly in the minutes. And he said we need to re-centralize the Basque Authority in the state. What are you telling me, man. Besides, you haven't answered the question I asked you. You've escaped, if you want so much cleaning, and as you say, using my neighborhood language. Look, do you know what neighborhood language is? Trying to make others believe that that of others is a false, dark act and yours is clean. No, you have come by the hand of the only group that has an economic sanction from the Basque Competition Authority acting from the Administration, from the Álava Chamber, and the leader who was at the front is sitting on that bench. And you have not only not tried to look at whether there is transparency or corruption, being the Administration itself the acting one, but you have gone hand in hand to try to involve this government in facts that, as you have acknowledged, have nothing to do with the above and are trying to involve it with the current contract. So, Mr. Maneiro, leave it, because you're a corrupt. You will not take it warm, as probably not the Basque PP, but you are another face of the currency of corruption, which is lying, cheating, dirtying Basque politics. You already said, you want to load all Basque institutions and you don't care how you're going to do it. And the People's Party, as I said before, has to spread the crap around the world. Mr. Oyarzabal used to say, "Let's see, defendants." Listen, from the political leadership of the PNV imputed none, from your top leaders, that is to say you look. He says "it's just now that the contract has been replayed." What do you mean, they've played it again? No, if you don't have a sanction you have a right to appear, no one can stop you. Or what, that they don't have the rights to claim and claim in the courts, and so on? And when it says "no, it's that what they have to do is terminate the contract." What happens, that you don't know that to make a contract cut the cases are perfectly rated and that if you don't give the corresponding type that can't be done? Maybe if there was some game on the part of the prosecution, which you don't want, because I don't know if I could give it or not. Look, as I said before, you are also the other side of corruption, undoubtedly, because you only need to put everyone in the same color, that is, dirty, is the only way you feel comfortable. But, of course, that does not come out of them, but they can somehow defile the present Government. Of course, it is very wrong to say that this is comparable to the EREs of Andalusia, or the Barcens, or I don't know what, if then it turns out that the government is absolutely clean. Well, I don't know what we're going to do, I think the positions are perfectly clear. But I insist, here we are not debating anything of a commission of inquiry, here we are going to say that no to the watch that you ask us to have from an absolutely electoral point of view and in which your aim is to put everyone of the same color, very dark, dirty, so that you can have some choice. But the Basque citizen fool has not a hair and sure, he will surely know how to put everyone in his place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. It's over and we'll vote for the Basque popular and Mista-UPyD, the original text of another proposal than the rest of the teams. We'll vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 32; the counters, 42; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u58	So he didn't accept it. Forth point on the theme list: "Pull out the suggestion as a team of lawmen, about the contribution to take away tax-partischions. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Pindo, representing the EH team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u59	Good morning, everyone. During the past few weeks a new word has been put in fashion to the thread of the affair which is called the papers of Panama: offshore companies. On TV, in the paper, it's a theme that's on the Internet that's really nobedaddy. But, alas, that which is behind this poetic word is no new one, no, it is the theme we have long known: tax-paradistions. The powerful, who are the most powerful, are nothing else than an instrument which can afford not to pay the taxes to which they are paid, or to pay very little. It's one of the options that the taxes offer. We are faced with a new chapter in the history of an expoliation, of systematic and unfortunately long-suffering expoliation, which results in the European Union, for example, being stopped collecting EUR 2 billion a year because of tax evasion and fraud, or that in developing countries an annual loss of about USD 100 billion is estimated as a result of tax evasion by large companies. And all this has a direct influence on all of us. As social differences grow larger and larger, when social irrigation expands, the wealth of the world in the hands of the rich is accumulated at an immense speed. Here are some details. According to the data of Oxfamen, for instance, the wealth of the richest people in the world in 2015 was equal to that of $3,600 million poorest people in 2010, who was 388 people. The wealth of 62 rich people has grown 44% of the last five years, and these 62 people accumulate 1,76 billion dollars. The tax-fishes and gigantic industry of management of great goods in their service assures them that this wealth is by no means dispelled and maintained beyond the control of the governments. Through tax havens and the many tools that they provide, some large companies, heads of state, multinational managers, members of royal houses, elite sportsmen, artists, ultimately members of the social elites, escape from the control of the tax system and, therefore, make the contribution that belongs to the public arcades for the support of the public services that we all enjoy. It is these same elites who have benefited from the bailout to the bank, from the tax amnesty, from unjustified tax cuts, while the working classes endure social cuts and have to hear that they are necessary sacrifices for having been living above their possibilities. After all, the non-recorruption and fraud tie up public funds, which is opposed to public services which are characteristic of the state of well-being. All this has been revealed during the last few years of economic crisis, but the tax policy, unfortunately, has not been corrected, and even worse. It's an idea that has been spread for the past years, I'd say that rich and large companies must have low rates of taxations in some way to rekindle economic growth, and that this will profit everyone. We must not go very far to listen to the reasonings of this kind. Here, among us, we have heard more than once, in order to maintain a great number of small sums, to justify the assault on the revenues of wealth and great fortune, or to argue the privilege of the Sicavs. By means of the excuse of tax-paradissements various governments have been introduced into a mad race to tax the richest and large companies. All punishing public chests. This system of social taxations and frauds enables the poor people to maintain a well-being, and to swallow so many essential resources in what is called the first world every day, but what is worst is the worst, they do not allow the poor people to get out of the hole. In the world world, in the last years, in the hardest years of crisis, the tax-distribution has begun to be suspicious. For years, something exotic has been seen as part of the system, almost anarchical, but as the crisis is hardened, their real role has been revealed. It must be mentioned in this context, for instance, that the Interaction of the International Lawyers defines the rate of taxation as a violation of human rights, and that the President of the World Bank reveals it as a kind of corruption prejudicial to the poor. This mistrust of the society we have mentioned, and the restrictions of taxing, were obliged by different governments to take measures against fraud and exile. We have, for instance, several measures which the European Union has made up for the last few years, and which it has lately announced, especially those relating to the taxation of large enterprises, and which are related to the identification of tax-paradistions. But we all know the inconveniences which several nations have placed in order to advance the progressive measures. We are all thinking of the scandal of Luxleides, or the tricks of some great enterprises, for instance, to pay for Ireland in the other countries of Europe. It is a pity that the authorities of Europe also foresee that the measures on the road will be obstructed. In fact, it was long ago that there should have been a world-wide agreement against tax-paradistions and injurious taxes, because this is one of the most important measures against social differences. About 15 years ago OCDE proposed that the countries should be abandoned by tax regulations, but several of the OCDE countries which naturally work as a tax-paradissis, which are the abodes of great companies, had been reduced to an agreement by themselves, at the same time, 15 years ago, and had not advanced any progress. The OCDE has recently developed a project called BEPS against the purchase of the tax bases and against changing the place of profit. On the basis of this principle, they seek to make several measures from the European Union, using tax information as a main tool. But it does not appear, in this case, that all that is to be done has been done. The project is short again, due to different pressures. Nevertheless, we hope that the measures announced in the degree of Europe should be set to work. And in front of all this, all around us, we've got to do something else for a year. Even if we use the means we have here, we can make our contribution to this gigantic struggle against the tax systems. In the face of this situation here we cannot stand idly by, we must not wait for others to act for us. It is very easy to appeal to European authorities or to hide that this is a global issue and that, therefore, the measures must be those proposed by the European Union itself or by the OECD and thus think that everything is already done. But no, it's not all done, from here you can and must act. We know that this is a titanic struggle, but we firmly believe that we must take action, at our level, yes, of course, but measures at the end of the day. And that's why we brought our proposal here. Today we must welcome the agreement reached, and we want to thank the signatories for their willingness to reach the agreement. We would especially like to thank the Socialist Party, which from the outset has shown a willingness to make an agreement and to reach an agreement as broad as possible. The proposal was very clear. For once let us meet here in our own countries, where the corporations have filigree in their tax-paradises, and once they know it and have a public list, ask them to pay their due taxes here. Our purpose is to fulfill the duties of tax duty here for the economic activity they have here. And taking one more step, we demand that companies should not be a home or a filimatist when regulating the social responsibility of corporations. Why? For a very simple reason: Because to make real social responsibilities is one step more, and not to convert certain companies into a simple marchet strategy used to justify their image from there. At the fourth point we are required to reinforce the antilusium mechanism. And in the fifth place, the European Union demands the right measures against the progressive, progressive, and just policy of taxing and taxing. Today we believed that this legislature was to be clearly revealed against the tax-paradissions, not in a ponopous way, or with expressions that go nowhere. We thought our measures were necessary to-day, and this was the purpose of our average law, and that is the way in which we have light from the EH Union. The agreement finally made follows this way and we're really glad. Now it will be our duty to obey what has been agreed upon, and we must make sure that what has been agreed shall be fulfilled. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u61	President, ladies and gentlemen, today Bildu brings us a non-legislative proposal that we have welcomed with interest, especially for two reasons. The first is because, as we already started doing on September 26, 2013, with that full of taxation, the Basque Parliament, as the seat of all the institutions and of Basque citizenship, was put to work to make fiscal policy. Fiscal policy which then has a development in the competences of each of the institutions, but fiscal policy. In other words, a policy that seeks to make all citizens equal before taxation, that seeks to ensure that the progressive nature of taxation is complied with, that it seeks to ensure that all of us are taxed, that we fight tax fraud, that it is harmonized, that tax avoidance is avoided. At that plenary session, much progress was also made in the fight against tax fraud; a committee was set up to combat tax fraud and the interconnection of data between administrations was discussed as one of the essential tools to be able to combat tax fraud. We therefore welcome this Bildu initiative, which insists on this fiscal policy of this Parliament, because it seeks to strengthen a fiscal policy which in its day had many resistances to be dealt with by this Basque Parliament, but which is proving that for a country as small as ours it is very necessary that there be a common policy, that there be a country policy and that it can then be legislated according to the competences of each one. Secondly, the initiative brought by Bildu, let us say that it is of rabies today, especially because of the roles of Panama, but also because of everything that has been happening in recent months, which seems to be already old news but very fresh, in Switzerland, Andorra, Luxembourg, that is, in certain places no longer on the other side of the puddle and on other continents, but on our own continent, even in our own European Union to which we belong. And so, right now, talking about the fight against tax fraud at a time of huge scandal over that tax fraud and those tax havens, I think it's important. The Panama papers, which is the most recent if we remove everything that is happening in relation to Mario Conde, which also has to do with opacity and tax havens, the Panama papers I think highlight two things that are very important for the fight against tax fraud. The first, that there is less and less security for those who make opaque fiscal policy, for those who make fraud, for those who seek tax havens, there is less and less security in any part of the world, and that one is increasingly exposed to paper appearing and being forced to face up to how he is operating with his economic resources. Secondly, they also show that governments are increasingly sensitive, have an immediate obligation to act, there is a great scandal about these practices of economic corruption and, therefore, there is practically no one who can remain indifferent, and in fact there have already been political consequences in very few hours, once the listings of Panama's roles have been known. And I believe that these elements are elements that help and help to make the fight against tax fraud ever stronger, more sustained, go from being a fight to being a war without a barracks, there is a zero tolerance with tax fraud and that, according to our competences, we are all closing the doors, making tax legislation increasingly secure, less interpreted by third parties, that does not give rise to tax evasion and that of course does not allow for any of the grievances that those who are in tax fraud and who are in tax havens can have a normal relationship with the public administration. Moreover, transparency on all this is ever greater, so that it is more difficult and painful to practice tax fraud. The compromise amendment that we have signed with the three amending groups, or which we have supported, although one of them has not signed for reasons already known and old in this House, is a compromise that deals with this type of thing, which is making progress, which puts Parliament in this policy of combating tax fraud, putting tasks on the whole of the institutional framework that exists in the Basque Country. It gives the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud two tasks: a task to put in its work plans the search for Basque companies, companies, natural persons who may be operating in tax havens, to follow them, to look for them and to have them tax where they have to tax, and secondly, it gives them the task, in accordance with their competences and in accordance with the rules that exist, of a practice, of information and transparency to the public, to the institutions of that work in this Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud. Furthermore, the political position we have commonly adopted suggests that corporate social responsibility should include that a normalised relationship is not possible if there are companies that are either directly or indirectly, either on their own or through subsidiaries, operating in tax havens. It is also proposed to turn the tax avoidance upside down. And indeed, this, which is also reflected in that September 2013 plenary, needs a thorough study, we have to see how the interpretation of our tax legislation is done today to avoid that tax avoidance, which is still a thin line between something that cannot be considered fraud from the point of view of legality, but that is nevertheless fraud from the point of view of legitimacy or from the point of view of ethics. That is why we are also making progress here, and this joint proposal also proposes a European fiscal policy. Indeed, the fight against tax fraud is a federal struggle, it is a continental struggle, it is an intercontinental struggle, it is not possible to go against tax havens from small, small institutional spaces, but it must be done in common agreement with places and with much higher capacities. Therefore, we need a European fiscal policy first, because with this European fiscal policy it is how we can be equal citizens throughout Europe, first to have public policies and to have public services, but secondly to fight more effectively against tax fraud and tax havens. And, therefore, there is a European policy approach that is absolutely necessary. I want to finish this intervention by welcoming the fact that we have taken this step. I believe today the best news that this Parliament could give to citizens is that we all agree – I do not know what the position of the People's Party is yet, we will hear it soon – that we agree that the fight against tax fraud is a sustainable, sustained political activity, a policy of first level and of first concern to this institution. And I believe that that is an element to be highlighted and pointed out as a guide and also as an example of what we have to do in the future, which is to keep turning around until tax fraud is reduced to a minimum. Soon, in a few days or weeks, we will know what is the update of tax fraud in Euskadi. This is an approach that we are concerned with taking care of and putting to work. We will therefore know in what quantification we are assessing tax fraud in the Basque Country. And I hope that we will also soon take a more decisive step in something that we have been defending for a long time, that most groups have resisted, and it is in quantifying the objectives of the fight against tax fraud. The same is true of a tax agency in Spain, which sets objectives, quantifies them and pursues all this with its policies, it is also necessary to do so in the Basque Country. We must do so by providing more services and more means to the inspection itself, by seeking to make more specialists available, which we probably lack, especially in the field of computer science, which is undoubtedly the most useful tool at this time in the fight against tax fraud. We need to strengthen that segment of the fight against tax fraud, we need to talk about means but we also need to talk about quantifiable objectives. Speaking in terms of social economy, there is probably nothing more uplifting and more profitable at the moment for institutions and public policies, but also for coexistence and citizen ethics, than fighting tax fraud, against tax havens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u62	Thank you, Mr Price. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u63	Thank you, President. Briefly, just to say that I will vote in favour of the compromise, since the arguments share them, the verbalised intentions also, and of the signed text, and since the forces are also limited, I only say that I will actually vote in favour of this text, as I suppose all the groups in the House will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u64	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. President, chief physician, good noon. As those who have spoken before me have said, I think the end of all, and the important end of it was to-day, in the attempt to arrive at the treaty, to show that it would be important to all of us to reject this Chamber with one mouth, and to appear against them. And that's why we've argued that when we've made that agreement in our midst, in some cases, it must be a minority in order to achieve it. So naturally I would like to place the value of this agreement on the table and to strengthen it, because we must see it at last, and because we must learn often that some important things and things which the people ask us are superior to other things. So I'm predicting the middle-point correction that it's a minority correction to our group. We had another half-direction proposed, but it was easier for us all to join in this. Then I'll discuss what we've been describing. So that's where we start. Here, as has been said before, in September 2013, we had a single discussion about the tax system, and in which the first proposition of the resolution, which we agreed in this Chamber, says: "The law of the U.S.A. thinks it's the most important instrument of equality, solidity, and justice for the greater social and more just, in which the citizen won't be abandoned. This state of attorney serves for the maintenance of public services and presidency, in order to be sufficient resources, to distribute wealth well enough between the population, and to encourage economic growth and the production of employment." And it is plain that the Fiscal Paradise does not say so much of this, but I am bound to conclude that we have a clear example contrary to this saying on the subject, a quite contrary example. So that agreement we've got in 2013 has been able to make Euskakid for the last few years, in the Autonomism of our Erdi, all that the organizations that have the power to decide on the tax system and accept the new rules, let's get this read. It's essential to eliminate the prosecutor paradises. In our election campaigns, in the campaigns of the Jestle of the Eural Party, we have clearly shown this in the programme of the European Union. And with all of us, all of these institutions are important to work on that road. It's important to close all the loopholes. We know that it is not easy and that not everything will be achieved only by changing laws, because there are also other kinds of circumstances, other kinds of elements, sociological, cultural, psychological, and they also need to be worked on. But today we have been able to look at the steps of the organization. We have agreed that this great agreement was obtained, and Eukadin's work has been done for several years and must be done more. We have strict anti-tax legislation in the international context, which is also under continuous assessment to take improvement measures when necessary. The outlaws of corporate tax establish anti-circumvention mechanisms to prevent our companies from placing subsidiaries in tax havens to erode tax bases. In front of me is the 11/2013 Foru Rule of December 5, the tax on societates, and in it is 49. It may be read in the article how long such actions are to be made by certain companies to refer to the operations of persons and entities made in the state of Common-wealths, or to the performances of those persons and entities. In this sense there is much to be done, much more to be done, and to this end we must take measures. Even the team of the Jeltist Party of Madrid has introduced several initiatives. We proposed a GNP with legislative reforms other than strictly tax reforms, which are the exclusive competence of the State. In particular, it was proposed to adopt measures of a criminal nature, reform of the Criminal Code, revision of the figure of possible misdemeanour with regard to tax offences, so as to prevent their use as an escape route for fraudsters, and to strengthen the treatment of tax and financial engineering figures whose aim is tax avoidance. Measures were proposed in relation to the Sicav regime that have been discussed here or to amend the Competition Law. And it is plain, as has been said here, this is a clear international theme. We are faced with a problem of an undoubted international dimension which requires that, in our case, in the Basque case, Basque tax authorities have representation in the technical working groups at European level working on the compulsory exchange of data, on the one hand, and on the elimination of tax havens, on the other. And because it's international, we should discuss the steps that are given to Europe. Now this subject, the theme of the prosecutors of Paradise, has come back around the Panama papers recently emerged. But it is true that in this Chamber, too, we have discussed the case of Luxleides, and have had more than enough the subject of the prosecutors of Paradise. I should say as an idea of force in the theme of the prosecutor paradise, that a subject must first be solved. What's a prosecutor paradise? What's the prosecutor's list of paradises? Should there be a global list? What are the prosecutor paradises? And then a battery of measurements to face this problem of the prosecutor paradise. And it seems that it has been done several times, that it may be done, what is a prosecutor paradise? But it's not clear yet. There are three issues that need to be addressed from Europe and among all of us. The definition of a tax haven, a list of tax havens and a battery of measures to combat them. To date there is still no definition, although the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, defines them as countries to which money flows from abroad, to which legal and economic facilities are applied in order to avoid the payment of taxes in their country of residence. And he considers that there are three common characteristics: the low or zero level of taxes, the information opacity with which they operate and the lack of transparency in operations. In addition, there should be a unique list, because, although a step has been taken forward and last June for the first time in Brussels a list of 30 tax havens was given, an effort should be made to unify that list. Because, for example, in the case of Panama, which is what has brought this topic to the present, Panama is on the list of tax havens at European level and, however, in 2011 in Spain it was removed from the list of tax havens. Such issues should therefore be avoided. And, on the other hand, further progress should be made in the battery of measures to combat this problem, against this scourge. And they're taking steps. Several initiatives have been launched by the European Commission, which began to be implemented and adopted following the Luxleaks scandal, which a year ago was discovered and debated in this House as well. Tuesday is the draft of the latest proposal, which obliges multinationals to provide country-by-country information on their profits and where they must pay taxes. These are companies with more than 750 million revenues and would be about 90% of the profits to which it would affect. Further action has been taken. In March 2016, the draft report on the proposed Council Directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices. December 2015, with recommendations to the Commission on increasing transparency, coordination and convergence in taxation policies. In January 2016, with proposals aimed at coordinating the EU-wide response to corporate circumvention, following the global standards developed by the OECD last autumn. But we still have to take steps, and as the deadline is up, I will continue with other steps that have been taken and our proposal in the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Prieto, we are going to vote in favour, but I have to tell you that I thought the initiative was against tax evasion, and it has become a fight against tax evasion and fraud in the transaction that you have signed, with which we all agree. But I thought that the initiative was going in other ways, that it was about the tax avoidance of multinationals, of large companies, that to pay less taxes or not to pay taxes they have residences in different countries, and that was where my intervention went. In any case, I will continue to talk about that, which was the subject that brought us, at least initially with the initiative with which we were partly in agreement. Because, of course, it's not the same fraud, it's not evasion, it's not elusion, it's not the same. Because tax evasion is done by legal means, it's legal, that's the problem of circumvention, it's not fraud or evasion, it's done by legal means. And when we're talking about tax havens, here you have to see what a tax haven is, because this Panamanian thing looks great, but a place is supposed to be a tax haven when the profits you bring to that country because there are practically tax-free, because they're returns you get out of that country. And the European Union has just published a list of 30 countries that are supposedly tax havens, which is made up of countries that match the lists of more than 10 countries in the European Union. The list of Spain is broader and, for example, in the European Union Gibraltar is not considered a tax haven. But if we look at the European Union and what is happening within the European Union, we have to say that to a greater or lesser extent almost all countries are tax havens, and I will see if I can explain myself. Because when France raises taxes, as a very progressive or very wise measure, there are a number of French people going to the City of London. Why are you going to London City? Because they pay less taxes. Others even go to Russia, I'm not going to say that Russia is a tax haven, but some even went to Russia and made a fuss and I don't know if it even took Russian nationality, which would probably be wrong there, because a tax paradise is usually a hell for own residents, for nationals, and a paradise for foreigners who bring income from outside, but well, I don't know. What I have to tell you is that Ireland is considered a tax haven for many countries. In Spain, over the past eight years, EUR 15 billion has been invested from European countries, including the Basque Country, of which more than 66,000 come from two countries, basically from the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Why do they come from Holland? Because a foreign investor puts his headquarters in Holland, the profits he gets in Spain go to Holland and pay zero. So Holland is a tax haven? Well, we'd have to consider it a tax haven for tax avoidance purposes. The same applies to Luxembourg, or the City of London, or the same to Belgium, or the same to Austria. The Netherlands has a very interesting tax system. The Netherlands denounced the Spanish shipyards in Brussels because we were dumping taxes. And when we're talking about these things, they're very important. Now we have problems with Arcelor, but Arcelor is a multinational. When a company of a multinational earns or loses money, it also depends on the costs that that multinational charges it that it then takes to the official headquarters that it has in any country of the world, that at best here comes out negative, because the costs that I have charged for the concepts x that I charge to my subsidiary in each country of turn, that money I take it with me, are costs for the company here, therefore it has no profits, but they are benefits for the company there. And I thought that we were trying to talk about this or that we were talking about this, because also, if we start talking about tax havens, within Spain, perhaps the Community of Madrid is tax haven compared to the Basque Country. Because you're talking about what a tax haven is, a tax haven for the purpose of circumvention is any place in the world where you pay less taxes or where you can pay less taxes. And it is clear that I believe that we all agree that we are against this and that, of course, each company has to pay the real taxes that correspond to each site. I'm starting from this base and we're all looking for solutions to that. And I believe that we will all agree, and I do not excuse the European Union, that while there is no harmonisation in the European Union, not as you say, because as you have brought it to an end to fraud and to a progressive and just fiscal policy... No, what has to be done is a harmonised corporate tax throughout the European Union. And when you have that and the different countries of the European Union stop competing fiscally to attract income from other countries, then you can also put pressure on other places outside. But I also want to tell you that the biggest tax haven in the world is the United States, I don't know if you know. It is not Panama, it is the United States, which has three states, one of them the Sioux, Sioux territory, South Dakota, which is the one that has become fashionable now, and there are important multinationals based in these countries. And multiple Spanish companies that also have subsidiaries on these sites. And all this is legal, and what we have to try to do is to prevent taxes from being paid either here or there in the end, that's what we have to avoid. And for that it is clear that as long as there is no serious action in the European Union on this matter, we are all going to go very badly, because it is the only way, when within the European Union we agree on how to avoid this, that an agreement can be reached with the United States to avoid it. Because there's a lot of pharisee here, starting with Mr. Obama, when he takes the lead in all tax fraud and many of these things, but then it turns out he has three states there, and when they're multinational Americans, don't touch them anywhere. We will therefore vote in favour of the compromise amendment they have made. We missed the tax evasion, which was what we came to talk about. And obviously it seems that the European Union is beginning to take action in recent months, there is a draft directive in this regard, it seems that multinationals are going to be required to publicise the revenues they have in each country, not the profits they declare, but the revenues they obtain, because the profits in the end are income here and expenditure here. And as I said before, if I charge the expense, that I take it there, for services provided from headquarters, we will be cheating. And I simply hope that as soon as possible in the European Union they will agree to harmonise corporate tax throughout the European Union and that unfair tax competition practices between the countries of the European Union themselves will cease.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u68	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u69	Thank you, ma'am. First, give thanks to all the teams, because we have agreed, and that this proposition will finally come to an end. I have to thank all the groups that have said that they are going to vote in favour. But I do want to say – I said this in my first speech in Basque, now I am going to say this in Spanish – that for us this is not a beautiful statement, we do not want and we wanted, and that is why in our initial proposal there were issues that we considered inescapable, we did not want this to be a good declaration of intentions, beautiful, that remained for the papers, but that action agreements, agreements were actually taken so that from here action could be taken against tax havens. And Mr Damborenea, the truth is that in my first speech I have always talked about tax havens. I have always talked about the influence that the existence of tax havens has on the social inequality that exists in the tax issue and in other aspects. Therefore, that has been the initial approach and that is the approach. We are going to do what we can here, knowing that this is a global struggle, as other speakers have pointed out, but here we have things to do, we can take action, we must take action and that is what we and we wanted today to decide in this Parliament, concrete measures, concrete actions to be taken. Each could make the approaches it had considered appropriate. From EH Bildu we were very clear that we had to put forward the active action to make a list of the companies that act in tax havens, of the companies that are here and act in tax havens and that, therefore, they must pay their taxes here. And point number three, in relation to corporate social responsibility, we believe that it is essential that in the future the regulation that has to be made about corporate social responsibility is really effective, and that those companies that act in tax havens are known, and that therefore they cannot be doing large publicity campaigns in which to clear their image, while through the back door they take their customers to tax havens. And that has been one of the issues for that point three to be reflected in the final proposal. Just for the sake of clarity. When he says that tax havens are any country where you pay less, well, nothing happens because we add that tax havens are those that, above which they make them pay less taxes, the opacity and lack of transparency of bank data, the lack of transparency of tax data, are really the ones that characterize tax havens. And unfortunately we don't have to go too far to see them. You have spoken of Luxembourg or Holland, we cannot forget all the islands that are under the United Kingdom's mandate for the Pacific, that many of them are great tax havens and that is where we have the problem too. But, well, that's another song and you'll talk. So, finally, I want to thank the deal. And I insist that we are going to follow up on what we have agreed to take place here, because it is not just about agreeing and tomorrow there is a headline, it is really about the actions being carried out and that we all fight together against tax havens. Thank you. First, thank you, Mrs. Pindo. The Socialist Basque mustn't speak a word. Maneiro mustn't speak. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u70	On the first round I have made a present of the enterprises which have been introduced from the different places where the Jestric Party is concerned, in order to abolish the tax-divisions from this road, and to propose the measures against the tax-relusium. And in the European Union, I did not mention the answer I received from the result of an initiative introduced by our party. That's what I'd like to mention then. Here's the picture in the press. Titus is "Bursels abre la puerta a Euchardi y Navarra's el Fiscalis," the president is with Uxue Barcusse of Navarre. And this was due to an initiative by the Jeltzaan Party. You can find all of this in Bilbao Barandic's blog in Ima. "We have received good news, because it shows that the obstacles we often encounter in order to have a more direct and logical relationship with the European institutions are not born in Brussels, but in Madrid. This is the confirmation that Euskadi and Navarra, as autonomous haciendas that they are, have open doors in pairs to participate in the European Fiscalis programme". And in that way, we've already said, the middle term that we've signed has been a half-successary correction that we've sent to the groups to negotiate, to the team who've submitted the initiative, and to the team who put it in order to correct it, we've filed a new correction. We said that we signed the other for consent, but we believe in this initiative that we actually presented some very interesting proposals. Proposals to do here and there. Hori da garrantzitsua guretzako, Pinedo anderea, ze ekimenak ezin dira Bakarrik izan here, ez baditugu horrelako gauzetan harmonizatzen eta eskumena duten batzukaz bideratzen sprawled beasts. This baterako, guk bidalitako zuzenketan, 3. I don't know what you're talking about. "Parliament urges the European Union, within the framework of the Ecofin Code of Conduct and Direct Taxation working groups, to continue to work to avoid erosion of tax bases and the fictitious transfer of benefits concerned, coordinating the response to tax avoidance." Eta hau amaitzen esan dugu: "And coordination must be carried out with the direct participation of all European finances, including those which comply with the case law of the Court of Luxembourg in order to be considered autonomous systems". Eta has a garrantzitsua da bear. Bald beast batzuetan gertazzen den moduan, bear garrantzitsua da hemen egin ahaliziko, han ekimenak bultzatzea modu koordinatuan egin ahal dezagun. Ulertzen dugu adostasun bakarrerako, aho batez egiteko, ez dela proposimen egokia, tade batzuek ez dutelako inondik inora onartuko, bathe you dugu bear garrantzitsua of hemen eta han ekin ahal izaza. In any case, we've been planning our initiative here on the first point. The second point has been requested to the Spanish Government that the international compacts should be shut down in other countries or countries which might be considered as the prosecutors, and assist him in the prosecution, in order to provide information and set up mechanism for each other. The object is that the residents of the revenue cannot be used to conceal their revenues or estates. And in the fourth place, we have requested the Basque Laws to demand an application to the European Union, that the Essquilas foru-gauns should be represented in the forum of Europe, and in co-operative productions like Fiscalis. In any case, we stop to sign and reject the wrong use of the tax-paradissies. And it's just a semi-correct vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. And finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. What happens is that, Mrs Pinedo, for the sake of circumvention, I do not agree that a tax haven is because there is opacity, because they are, even without opacity. And we can talk about Panama, which is theoretically not opaque because for that there is a treaty of double taxation. But with Britain, with the City, there is no opacity, with Holland there is no opacity, with Luxembourg there is no opacity, with the rest of Europe there is no opacity. And that's why I told him that the rules first had to be in the European Union and harmonise corporate tax. The example of the Sicav has been taken before, I don't know who took it. I just know that when you demagogue with these things, like you did here, I say here in the Basque Country, "how the Sicavs pay little money, we're going to raise it," and then we collect zero, because they all left and that little they paid here, now they pay it elsewhere. That's a bad business, because in the end that, how do you make up for it? With taxes that are raised to the middle class of this country and of all countries, they are the only ones paying taxes. And that's always happened. And so, the taxes that have to be are fair, and when there's excess, it turns out that the collection goes down, because the one that can change place changes. And that is what must be prevented; let them be righteous, not excessive. And the problem of France, which I have put before it, which is very good, or that of the Sicav that we had here, which is very good, but our collection zero and the others have grown. Why? Because they left here and they listed elsewhere. And that lack of income we make up for with the taxes we collect via IRPF for the rest of the Basque citizens. In any case, I too am glad that we have all agreed that we are against evasion and circumvention and fraud. But I repeat that as long as the company tax is not harmonised within the European Union, within the European Union itself there will be tax avoidance and there will be tax avoidance today. And it's legal. And as it is legal, companies will continue to do so, because it is clear that if they can pay less, they will pay less. Therefore, what needs to be done is to change the entire legal framework of the European Union. And perhaps what needs to be done is to start forcing some European Union countries to refuse to do so, and if not, they will have to be expelled from the European Union, because what cannot be done is to make a tax trap, a tax dumping, and, as I said earlier, that some of these countries should denounce us, because the Spanish shipyards were competing unfairly with the tax. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u73	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect, the half-correction signed by Eukal Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u74	Thus, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. When I reach this point, I interrupt until 3-thirty. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-six. At three o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-one o'clock the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u75	Good afternoon. Five point in theme list: "To discuss these other proposals of law together, and to take up the final resolution: The other billing proposal by the Basque Socialists as a team, about leaving the program contract for the 2016-2010 at EIB, including Mistto-UPyD bill of law, about quitting EIB's program agreement." The group's turn to make a suggestion. Basque Socialists, Mr. Unzalus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u76	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu anderea. Lehendakari yellow, sailburu anderea, legebiltzarkideok, egun on guztioi. The Socialists support the programme contract, but not the programme contract, and I hope that I will give sufficient reasons for the majority of this Parliament to support the proposal to withdraw and adapt to what is left of the legislature. We Socialists consider the contract-programme an essential tool by which EITB and the Basque Government establish the general objectives and conditions on which the work of EITB is to be based. In this negotiating framework, EITB proposes its actions and obtains a commitment from the Government to have the resources to carry them forward. One of the objectives is to achieve transparent, sustainable and efficient funding. We believe that this formula should be based on transparency, with adequate evaluation and accountability procedures for the public service. This is one of the foundations on which our group proposes a comprehensive reform of the law of the entity, in which, inter alia, it is established that the contract-programme between the Government and the management of EITB is approved by this Parliament, so that it is this Legislature that subsequently commits itself to the follow-up of the commitments made and to the systems of evaluation and evaluation of the fulfilment of the objectives agreed. Another reason for involving Parliament in this matter is that it is up to Parliament to approve the distribution of the resources that citizens put in our hands. Until the signing of the 2016-2019 program contract, the current one was the one signed in 2012 by the previous EITB address and the government of the lehendakari Patxi López. Fulfilling the will of the socialists with regard to the contract-programme, this was an agreement that was perfectly suited to the needs of the public body and to the requirements required by the Government. That signature constituted an exercise of responsibility, providing EITB with resources and, on the other hand, not conditional on determined commitments to future governments. The Socialist Government left its duties to be done. It is this government of the lehendakari Urkullu, who, as in many other respects, has not taken any initiative, has not worked at the pace required to equip EITB with a management element as important as the contract-programme. Its action in this matter is a faithful reflection of the lack of initiative it has had throughout the entire legislature. We had to be the opposition, and more specifically the socialists, who had to face the great challenges of the country, give the solutions and translate them into the general budgets of the Autonomous Community. The most active Parliament has been left to the least diligent Government. Over three years it has cost the Government to sign this contract-programme, which corresponds to the tiny legislative activity it has developed. It had submitted 24 bills, of which only half had been adopted. To illustrate what I'm saying, one thing: in the same period, Patxi López's government got 22 laws passed. The Socialists have been concerned throughout the legislature about the absence of an updated programme contract. That is why we are asking on more than one occasion about the situation. We were interested both in the follow-up to the current one and in the progress made in the elaboration of the new one. No conclusive answer, all of which were mere generalities, was not even answered to such specific questions as the number of meetings of the follow-up committee or those convened to shape the new one. Like I said, it was all balloons out. When it came to the EITB Directorate, it replied: "EITB has regular contact with the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture and the Department of Finance and Finance to deal with matters related to the institution and its societies". When we asked the Government, the answer was in similar terms: "The Basque Government maintains a close and fluid relationship with the Directorate-General of EITB. There have been numerous meetings that have been held." However, in confirming what we thought about the desire of both the Government and the Directorate on the matter, the answer has been given to us by the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which in its 2013 audit report says, in text: "For the financial year 2013, no contract-programme has been signed, nor has the follow-up committee of the same, having extended the 2012 one, as is evident". In other words, the government and management of EITB have not worked seriously on this issue. At the end of the parliamentary term, in which it will undoubtedly be the last year of the term, we are surprised by a programme contract, to which, to the greatest amazement, they assign a temporal scope that practically covers the next parliamentary term. They have not responded to what was their obligation in the current one and want those who come to follow their model. A model that, on the other hand, has proved to be obsolete, failed in terms of labor relations, levels of audience, business management, relationship with the Basque audiovisual production network. In the wake of a failed mandate, they seek to consolidate a model that agonizes and tries to condition future budgets, something beyond the reach of both the current leadership and the current Government. When the lehendakari considers it, there will be elections, where representatives will have to be elected according to the country model of each, also the model of EITB, which will have to be reflected according to their criteria in the budgets to be counted on. Knowing all this, knowing that following the drift of EITB is condemning it, the explanation that this contract has is only one: it is part of the electoral campaign, which also includes all the last-minute, future-free express bills, those plans that are announced to us by 2020, which is where the lehendakari of this legislature did everything, according to last week's autobomb celebration. This is not a contract-program, it's a pose, an appearance, nothing, because after three years without doing anything they could have perfectly signed a contract-program for a year, extendable, as it was done in 2012, since they have months left of parliament, or simply extended the one of 2012, as it was done in 2013, 2014 and 2015, but they have chosen something else. This non-legislative proposal arose from the appearance of a month ago, in which the director and the counsellor were pleased to explain this contract. And as I said then, there has been no reflection on television radio needed by Basques, not the PNV, analyzing the channels, necessary staffing, business organization, type of relationship, etc., that would satisfy the need for public service. Then, with a professional and political diagnosis well done, a contract-program should be signed, not the other way around, as has happened. None of this has been done, there is no prior reflection or analysis, and we are faced with commitments by both sides that we do not know if they seem in any way to the reality of what the Basque citizens need or the budgetary possibilities that the Basque Government has in turn. Therefore, we are faced with a mere declaration of intentions by the EITB Directorate and the Government, which are already moving us forward with this contract-programme which they want for the next legislature is more than the same, but with more resources. In addition to these general considerations, shortcomings and major shortcomings in the articulation of the signed contract, I will refer to some of these shortcomings that we see in that articulation. With regard to HD emissions, although one of the most important challenges, there is no concrete investment or timelines for its overall implementation. All indicators for the evaluation are specified in emission hours. In our view, the number of hours of issue is not a guarantee of the quality of the final product, but in any case of higher cost. The subject of sport appears in several sections, but I think more eager to fill in pages than in the spirit of concreteness. As was evident in the debate on the first item of this session and as my colleague Rosa Fresno has explained, the criteria of gender equality to respect have not even been taken into account. Two new developments appear in the document, which, in our view, are worrying, because they can entail additional costs, which are the power to finance projects for the creation and maintenance of subsidiaries, and the possibility of indebtedness. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the PNV, I hope you have realized the loneliness in which you have found yourselves in the debates on EITB. It is true that they have not taken into account the opinion and resolutions of the majority of this Parliament, but they will not deny that the entire opposition has expressed itself against its management model, that the entire opposition has come to call for the resignation of the director of EITB, which for some reason we all disagree with the editorial line it develops. You had an opportunity to integrate the opposition into the elaboration of the contract-programme, to have counted on our opinion, to have allowed analysis and constructive criticism, to have made the effort to add. Although it is obviously not a legal requirement, be sure that if you had had everyone's opinion the result would have been more satisfactory and time-bound. I think I have given more than enough reason to correct your error, withdraw the programme contract and draw up a new one in line with what remains of this Directorate's mandate. And since I have enough time left and with the permission of the President, I want at this moment a memory for those men and women who today 85 years ago made possible the period of freedom and democracy that was the second Spanish Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u77	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Misstto-UPyD, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u78	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. With this initiative which we advocate, very similar to the Socialist Group's initiative, we propose to urge the Basque Government to put an end to the EITB programme contract signed on 25 February, that is to say, we want this Parliament to urge the Basque Government to withdraw this programme contract. Therefore, as I had occasion to present and explain to the Director-General of EITB herself and to the Counsellor of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture of the Basque Government, we consider that this contract-programme which the Basque Government and the Directorate-General of EITB signed on 25 February must be withdrawn. We also advocate the contract-programme formula, which is born to link the Basque Government, which provides funding to EITB, when it undertakes to carry out a number of services and to carry them out in a certain way. However, this recently signed programme contract, as I say, must be withdrawn. And briefly, I think that it is also clear what five reasons we put forward to endorse this proposal. First reason. This Basque Parliament on 5 February 2015 called for the resignation of the current Director General of EITB, Mrs Maite Iturbe. One fact, I think, is relevant enough to consider not only that this Director General of EITB has been in a position since then that she should not, but also that much less can claim to decide the future of EITB or condition it for the next four years. It has no legitimacy to remain in office, let alone to seek to condition EITB's future over the next four years. I think this first reason is perfectly understandable. Second reason. On 7 May this Parliament agreed to set up a special committee to lay the foundations for the reform of the EITB, a committee which should have been set up before 31 December last year and which should have presented an opinion with the conclusions before the end of the first quarter of 2016, in order to undertake initiatives for public sector reforms. It makes no sense for this contract-programme to anticipate the work that this committee must carry out, since it has not yet done so, and above all to the very purpose and the desire and desire already expressed by all the groups in this House to promote an EITB reform, because we consider the groups that the current model is exhausted. On the one hand, therefore, we have a clear desire on the part of these groups that the model of EITB must be radically reformed, and a majority of groups defend it in the face of the desire of the Basque Government and the current leadership of EITB to perpetuate it. Third reason. This Legislature is about to end, autonomous elections will soon be called and citizens will elect a new Parliament, so, in our view, it makes no sense for the contract-programme to be signed and agreed a few months before all this happens. Therefore, this would be the third reason. What the Government is trying to do is to leave everything tied and well tied, in the purest Franco style. It seeks to ensure that everything remains the same and to condition the future of EITB together with that programme contract. It doesn't make any sense when it takes a few months, maybe a few weeks or even a few days for this legislature to end. That would therefore be the third reason. Fourth reason. The programme contract, as has already been said, has been presented late and, moreover, has not been negotiated, nor agreed, nor has it the support of this House or of the political parties present here. There is therefore no consensus and therefore this is also a major reason to argue and ask the Government to withdraw this programme contract. The Government had time to present it long before, it did not do so at the time and to present it in the absence of a few weeks or months before the end of the legislature also makes no sense. And fifth reason and last. This contract-programme aims to perpetuate the same exhausted and failed model of public radio and television, rather than to promote its reform. These are the five reasons that we put to the groups' consideration for finally voting in favour of this compromise that we have signed by the Group of the European People's Party, the Socialist Group and the UPyD. I wish this initiative could be approved, but sadly we know the skills of the Basque Nationalist Party in order at the last moment to get the support of some of the groups, we have also seen it today morning. And perhaps today, too, I have the help of EH Bildu so that this initiative does not come forward. We'll see what happens. We're very worried about it. But in any case our convictions are firm and the reasons set out also, I believe that this contract-programme should be withdrawn. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u79	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u80	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, as has been said here, the programme contract signed between the Basque Government and the public body Euskal Irrati Telebista was presented to the EITB Control Commission on 24 March. This group is not going to say things very different here from what it said in that committee. We are faced with a programme contract signed for four years, that is, which will last until 2019 and in which the Basque Government commits significant amounts of money. That is to say, the validity and effects of this contract-programme, as has been said here, will go beyond this legislature, that is to say, they will commit another direction and another executive. This group has already said that the main objective of this contract-programme is probably not to define the counterparts of each of the signatory parties, but above all to shield EITB's financing for four years. And the truth is, it's shocking. It would already have been shocking if such funding were to be shielded without a sufficient majority to do so in the first year of the legislature, but it is even more shocking to be held a few months after the elections. We were told that it had not been possible to do so before because we did not know what the economic circumstances were, that they were uncertain. It seems, therefore, from what was said in that committee, that the bells can already be belled on the flight and that the economic situation in Euskadi is already absolutely certain. However, we also have how, after the Basque Finance Council in February, the Councillor for Economics and Finance himself, Mr Gatzagaetxebarria, commented that it was necessary to be very cautious and be cautious until the confusing panorama of the international economy was clarified. Therefore, and despite what was said in that committee, it does not seem that the economic circumstances are so certain. And it seems that there are other issues that should require the commitment of the Basque Government, that should be shielded and yet not done, because that does leave it at the dawn of how the economy goes and evolves. However, the financing of EITB, no. EITB funding wants to shield itself from what can happen in the future. The Commission has shown, as is indeed the case, that this contract-programme constitutes the definition of relations between the Basque Government and the public body EITB. We were explained the content of the report, which corresponds, as I said, to the funding that the Basque Government is going to provide and, on the other hand, to the commitments made with EITB. From here I want to say that this group does agree that there is a programme contract and that probably with many of the contents of that programme contract set out there, the principles and bases of action we can also agree with, but not only do I believe that the People's Group but also the rest of the groups. But the question is not to put a number of principles and commitments into a role, the question is not to fill leaflets with good purposes, so that they will then remain in that, in good purposes. Because the way is shown to be moving, and the truth is that if something has shown this direction, and something has shown EITB over these years, it is that the commitments contained in the contract-programme do not know whether they intend to fulfil them in the future, but of course in the present have not been fulfilled, nor in the previous years either. It has not been achieved in terms of objectivity, veracity and impartiality in information and in terms of equality and political pluralism. There are obvious objectives, such as that public television and public radio must be public service, that they must provide true and objective entertainment and information, that they must achieve certain audiences, and neither has any of these objectives been achieved. We haven't been able to keep the hearings, we're at the worst ratings the public body has ever had. 2015 was a bad year, but of course 2016 has not started better. Nor has it been possible, as I have said before, to be a public service that responds to the principles of impartiality, plurality and veracity, it has not been so. EITB has clearly been used as an instrument in the service of a government, in the service of a party and in the service of a certain political ideology. That is why, as I said in committee and I want to reiterate here today, beyond the management teams, beyond who is in charge of them, which is important, the fundamental thing is a rethinking of the concept of EITB as a public service. Of course, a rethink of the concept of this Government and the leadership of EITB. It's not about who directs it, it's about how it's directed. And the way it goes, I say it's at the service of the government and the party that supports it, and that's what needs to be changed. This requires a thorough study of how EITB actually works and how it should work. As long as this is not changed, there will be no truth, there will be no publicity, and it will certainly not be a public service. That is why, I believe, and I said it and I want to reiterate it now, this Directorate and this Government have no credibility in presenting a contract talking about truth, impartiality, independence, respect for political pluralism, reasonable ratings of hearing, staff management. As I said, of course we agree with many commitments and principles contained in the contract-programme, and that these principles and commitments are assumed by EITB as a public service. But I repeat, compliance with these principles is not the most important objective for EITB and the Basque Government in signing and presenting this contract-programme. The objective of this contract-programme, which really weighs, is the content on pages 34 and 35, which, as I said at the beginning, is nothing other than guaranteeing the financing of EITB, to contribute, apart from what is provided this year, 1.116,664,845 million euros in 2017, 1.019,115,083 euros in 2018, and 121,561,781 euros in 2019. And besides, as I said, it is essential how the contract-programme is fulfilled, which is going to be the EITB that is going to comply with that contract-programme. And that requires something that has not been done and that should have been done beforehand: an analysis of the EITB model we want, an analysis of the staffing that we want, of the quantity and mode of financing of the entity we want, of the policy of hiring producers we want. All this should have been done before such a programme contract was submitted. Because here what has been done is to put the cart in front of the oxen. What has been done is to commit the government that will come out after the next elections to economic contributions in a situation of economic and financial insecurity, no matter how much the contrary is said in the committee, and to a set of principles and an EITB model with which it may not agree at all. Compromise us under the excuse that there is a need for stability in order to carry out certain investments. But investments, in order to achieve them, have to prove that they are productive, and in the current model productivity leaves serious doubts. To commit to a future management of EITB whose model, as I said, may or should at least be different, because the current model has clear symptoms of exhaustion, as has been said here today. A model that is making our television every day lose more audience, more quality and more credibility, no matter how much it attempts to silence. At this time of management of the current Directorate, Basque public television is not guided by professional criteria. As has already been said on other occasions, this management is damaging the image of EITB. The image of the professionals themselves has been damaged, the value of which is tarnished, because the whole body has been put at the service of very concrete political criteria. And they are doing it, as we have always said, with the money of all Basques. And now they want to commit that money from all Basques for four more years, administering a budget with political and partisan criteria, apart from any professional and journalistic objective criteria. And worst of all, they have no intention of changing that course. And they intend to impose that direction on the next executive and the next EITB direction. They want to continue to commit to the future, nothing less than 2019, the money of all Basques in a model that is failing. That is why we called for the withdrawal of the programme contract, which, until the new contract was accepted, would follow the requirements of the strategic plan. Finally, we have signed an amendment – from here I am grateful for the cooperation between Mr Maneiro and Mr Unzalu – in which we are more or less coming to ask the same thing: that this contract-programme be withdrawn, because of course I do not think it is the time or the occasion to present it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u81	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The representative of EH Collector, Mr. Urruzuno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u82	Good afternoon, everyone. We're trying to make it clear from the Basque People gathering that we see a contracting program suitable. We see a three, four, five years' agreement, because it somehow allows things to be made with another perspective, and even what is to be done can be more effective. So, like I said, we see a contract program. On the other hand, in respect of this work of contracts, we see in the main, in the heart, two questions; one, for the moment and the way it has been done, and the other for the content itself. Dos problem: findo y shape, when and how it's done. It has been said that even those who have taken the word in advance have said that it is done in the end of legislation. And it's true, it's not logical to make it a legal ending. But it is not so much for us that we do it in the end of legislation. If there was an agreement here in this Chamber, if there was an agreement in its example, if we saw that EIB is not at the present moment in collapse, and that the public function which ought to be played is well distinguished, and that the community is well adapted to it, it would not be a mistake in the prosecution of legislation, because we believe EITB must be his own course without being connected with those who are to be governed by government or by law. But what context has this contract program been made? It has often been remarked in this chamber that it is necessary to reflect on the example of EIB, because EITB is subject to an exhausted model. The origin of a special committee was likewise agreed upon in this chamber. It must be true that this special committee has not made a meeting, and in this sense it would be well to remember even the Socialist Party, because he mentions this also in his enterprise, that the precepts are in his power, and that this commission is in his power. None of the Union was complete. But the fact remains that the problem goes on in this way: EIB's example exhausted, which does not answer at all to the present situation. Then from all this state we abstract from this context, and from day to night we find ourselves with a contracter on the table. And to diminish this demand for reflection and discussion, and leave it aside, is not logical to us. On the other hand, one of the strategic plans for the 2013-2016 period was signed, and as we are still in 2016, we assume that it will also be operational. But we don't think we can balance it at all, without making any further explanation of any direction, and another plan for the 2016-2019 period, to sign another contract, we repeat, is not logical to us at all. So this program of contract, as it is, is for us nothing but continuity. It only expresses constancy, without prejudice to the strategic plan, without the consequence of the special commission, without any further reflection, we repeat, it is mere continuity. With respect to content, Mr. Unzalu mentioned Mrs. Urgell and Surio signed in order to make some difference. To tell you the truth, perhaps my problem is that both of them I've read, and I don't find much difference. There are ten missions or goals and 11 commitments this time, and by chance, I don't know, the Urgelle and Surius were even 11. Many the same, and others the same, and those that remain. Economy import too: Surrius 2012 compared to what Iturb will have in 2019. And objects and engagements are determined, and are made a list of ends and engagements. And if it is to be true, it is hard to be opposed to good will's ends, they ought to be very ill made to be so. But what's the problem? These problems are inexpensive. When a purpose is placed, the ends are good, but then they are produced in the daily routine, what continuity they are to them, and what advantage or advantage they contribute to them, that is to say, what they ought to appreciate. For example, the first engagement: "To guarantee real information, we're telling you about informion de calid." On the same day Mme. Iturbe came to explain this contracting program, "ELA denuncia al Arzila la luítica informiva de EITB." So that's the point. It's not that we need transparent informatives, all of us agree. But then what is done? "Willia dencia al Arli la pollica informiviva de EIB." I'll tell you about today, another one, we have something in our EIB every day. This morning, in EIB's official Twitter account, "EAJ-PNV was given to the Bira of Women Admitida en la World World Tour y retransmitida endirecto." EAJ-PNV, I'm el Grupo Popular, I'm an el Socialist, I'mUPyD, I'm EH Collect. EAJ-PNV. What is that? That's manipulation, manipulaón con todas las de laley. And that's what we get every day. If it's not manipulation, it's censorship, if it's not censorship, it's cheap propaganda for the government. That's about our first commitment. The second is to promote the society that must be more and more eloquent. Well, we agree, we all may agree. But this aim remains in the pure, in the application of the contract, when a few pages go further and consider the character and character to be given to each chain. And we see in them how every chain has a concrete function in it, and there is the problem: that is to say, it appears to be a dignity. In other words, it only applies to ETB1 and other things to ETB2. And to the Basque Radio and to the rest of the society. And that works at the expense of the eucalyptus. And the rest is not restored and the aim of EIB at the beginning, the foundation, the recovery of the cradle, and all that is done in this duly is lost. Because, klaro, there's an attack in Brussels, and somebody's ordering EIBn to stop the bonds of the emission, which is important, because it's meant to be given important. And "Good morning Euskadi" leaves and we go to En Jake, porque lo importante se en spirel, lo impetine se en castellano. And it stays on a second level. We could follow. "Auscan and sporting, promote the watching industry." I'm sorry, but with this presupuestarian game, there's no way of developing the visual industry. How many times has the last four years been reduced the game to strengthen the visual sector? I don't know about it, but you know how many times better than I do, how many millions that money match has been reduced. On the other hand, "To keep peace and partnership in the plan." Peace and partnership is a one-legged planet, limited, one thing that you've got for yourself. You haven't been able to share it with anyone, to agree with anyone, but you use ETV for his distraction. We don't agree with the contents of this contract, of course. One more, applying the principles of "compositorality." How many times has this Chamber been requested for four years, information about the Billor system? Gestor system and transparency are osmorone, there is no way to reach it. Gestor's system is the most opaque system and not the most transparent. As I have said, then, because I have nearly finished my time, it is mere continuity, which seems to be taken as something to be done, and it is done, and there it is. But this remains for us both in forms and in content. And again we say that a contracting program is good for us, but when direction and ends are clear. And without this we are confirmed in ours: What EITV needs at the moment is a strategic consideration. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u83	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Uribe-Homevary, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, Mr. President, Miss Chief of Staff. I'm trying to watch, Mr. Uruzuno, on EIB Twitter, but they have a lot of accounts and I haven't found them, but, well, if I can, we'll talk about it later. What I'm trying to say is, like the one mentioned here, in February 24, they signed the EIB program agreement for EIB for 2016-2019. A joy to us, good news, no doubt. And it is a good news with this decision that EIB recovers his activity and a very necessary tool for doing his part in proper and proper conditions. The current record of contracts, with one of its principal characteristics: you, Mr. Unzalus, have deprived him of the duration of a multi-year-old, plyrianity, and you, Mr. Unzalus, have robbed the contractor of that property. And it's not easy to get it back. And now he's back again. I just want to remind you, in 1993, that this Bill of Law decided that the program contract was the best and most convenient to organize and regulate the relationships between the Basque and EITB. From this house, therefore, they were asked to acquire this scheme, and to develop it, as in other parts of the administration, as in the case of health. Then from the European Union, together with the development of the visual sector, they proclaimed the same formula, and the general law of the state's attentions demand and establishes this figure. Continuing with history, the first program contract was for the date of 2002-205, which was extended for the year 2006. The second had the duration of 2007-2010, and after that it lasted years, because of financial problems and presupuestarian problems. That's what you did, Mr. Unzalu. In 2012 another third code was signed, so did you, but also for years to be accepted. But this is a very important and essential thing, which is in keeping at the present day will last between 2016-2019. In other words, fortunately, and I wish to remark, I have recovered one of its principal characteristics from the commercial contract of ETB, as I have said before: that is, a multi-year character, a plianity. After all, it's given to EIB because it offers a stable financial frame, which is very important to EITB. We who have the right institutional consideration and respect for EIB, with the contract of our present program and its duration, ought to be glad, because EITB, by the hand of the program agreement, has acquired pravity and financial stability for the middle term. And let me assure you, that if we have a careful and institutional view, this constancy ought not voluntarily to be fulfilled by word for the time of a law. That's what happened in other places, and that's what took place between 2007-2010 years of time with the program agreement, that's when the law ended in May, 2009, and then another government, and this government continued with the contract of the previous program, which changed, and then took away the pyrianity. Ladies and gentlemen, and if we rightly understand the function of EIB and, above all, what sort of conditions and text it is that we must understand that the program contract is a proper formula, and that this must be pliant because of two principal reasons, and you know that we have sometimes underlined or expressed it; the constant evolutional sector of visual appearance requires, among other things, its constant adaptations of planned activity. The product produced by a media team goes beyond a natural year, so it needs a planning that transcends a natural year, its programming goes beyond a natural year, and they have to plan for it. Programs don't come from one day to another. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case also, it is not acceptable to ask EIB to produce without compassion, and at the same time to deny the means and the tools it requires. That's a disloyal attitude, that's unacceptable. Another important point. A program contract, as I said before, is an agreement between Eukko and EIB, which I would almost say is administrative. And the parliamentary may have his opinion, and he has his part, but as it is in other administrations, it is simply the work of AEIB and AEIB. I'm not going to repeat what program agreement missions are, targets, or even the main features of the contractor's formula. Due to correction, EH Collect presents us a six-point correction. As I said to you, I think it's perfectly legitimate, respectable, as many things you ask for there. But it's important too that you don't look like a program agreement. The program agreement is a program agreement, Mrs. Llanos, and it explains nothing else. Can't attach to the program agreement some things that don't belong to it. That should be clean, but it's always been like that. You mention that special committee. According to this special commission, and the method of sharing in our hands, which was made by the University of the Basque Country, the consideration of this committee ended in the neighbourhood of 2018. So it is quite appropriate for the next program-contradiction, if some conclusions are taken at its own time, in this new program-contradiction to include them. I have to acknowledge, Mr Unzalu, your ability to trick and trick Mr Maneiro and Mrs Llanos, but I am not going to fall for it and of course much less reason. Let us see, the amendment you have tabled is practically the text of the Socialist Party, and I am sorry to say that it is not only deeply disappointing, but it is deeply ridiculous. Let's see, you're asking that the current contract-program be eliminated and another set up. For five months at most? For the duration of the current legislature? Five months? That's what's coming here, that's what you're proposing. But you think this is serious? That is to say, if this Parliament was to be clouded today and you were to be appointed Director-General of EITB, tomorrow what I was going to do is denounce that agreement and launch one for five months. On what criteria? With what calculations? With what ratios? Do you think this is serious? This isn't serious. This proposal is deeply disappointing and out of place. It doesn't make any sense, a five-month program contract. You, indeed, as I said before, have already removed the multi-annual feature from the EITB programme contract, and I can assure you that it is not and has not been easy to recover that multi-annual character. In the context of the relations between the Department of Culture and the Directorate of EITB, which are obviously relationships requiring commitment, where some require others, it has not been easy to recover the multi-annual nature of the contract-programme. And the contract-program is fortunately now multiannual. And the contract-program deals with what it deals with. Nor can it be assigned functions it does not have. So, really disappointing Mr Unzalu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Passing over to the answer shift, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u85	Eskerrik asko. I will start by showing Mr Urruzuno some perplexity, because I believe that in the arguments he has put in this rostrum he has fully coincided with those of the People's Party, with those of UPyD and mine, with those of the Socialist Party. He has said that he does not agree with the moment when it has been signed, that he does not agree with the contents, in the form, that it is not logical to do so at the end of a legislature although he agrees with the multi-annuality, that there has been no consensus and that it has been evident throughout the entire legislature that there has been dissent with the Directorate and with the department, with EITB, that they take this out we would say to a horse's fingernail or at least to a coup d'état, as it may be, has not seen it logical. Mr Urruzuno, I think you have given the arguments to tell the government to withdraw this contract-programme, you have given the same arguments that we have given. Therefore, I urge you, I urge you, in line with your statements, to vote for the compromise amendment that we have signed with UPyD and the People's Party. You also referred to the special committee. Indeed, when we tabled this special committee, because it was an initiative of the Basque Socialist group there in May 2015, we thought it was an important tool, fundamental to make that reflection, that in-depth analysis of what would have to be EITB in the future. Because, Mr Urruzuno, EITB changes, the circumstances of the audiovisual network change practically every year, and therefore, that long-term reflection we have to do. What's going on? At that meeting on 7 May 2015, further at the request of its group, it was also requested that Parliament instruct the UPV to develop a methodology to follow the discussions of this special committee, to follow those discussions, those relevant analyses. And what's going on? That document was presented to Parliament in February this year. And also, as you know, just as we all know it, in that comprehensive document, in that comprehensive analysis methodology, which I think can really be a good tool for reaching that conclusion that I believe we all want – at least the opposition in this House want EITB to adapt to the circumstances it has and face the challenges of the future – says that document that takes year and a half for its development. Therefore, we thought that it was not very sensible to start this work of the special committee so that they would have a horizon of two or three months at best. Taking into account that this same work was previously done, this same UPV methodology, what it requests is a series of sociological studies, surveys of the population, to see and support the subsequent analysis. And all this, as I say, would have a much higher horizon even than this legislature. That is why I will remind you that we have tabled for your debate in this plenary a non-legislative proposal, so that the Government will begin with those aspects which have to do with the opinion of the citizen, with sociological studies, so that the document can be prepared for the next parliamentary term, and the work of this committee or of what is agreed at the moment has more important points of support. I would have to reply to Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, but first of all I want to say that we, the Socialist Group, are going to maintain the new model for EITB that the Secretary-General nominated for lehendakari, Idoia Mendia, with myself a year ago on what we want to be the new model for EITB. We have a proposal that we are going to put on the table always, and that is a proposal that I really believe can give rise to an important reflection and change the model, which on the other hand we believe is obsolete. And Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria, I will not answer you to verbal insults or exaggerations that you say. However, what you have come here to demonstrate is that there was very little empathy between the Department of Culture and the Directorate, because you said it cost you how long the multi-annual project was accepted. But I'm going to tell you one thing, the concept of multi-annuality is not something that we deny of it, what happens is that multi-annuality cannot be used for the benefit of part. It cannot be used when you are interested in it and not when you are not interested in it. And what you have done at this time is to use multi-annuality to commit future governments, that is the issue and that is what you have done. And more as I say, and you have expressed it clearly here, after much having to work between the department and the EITB Directorate. Very little empathy between a department and an entity that depends on it. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u86	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u87	Thank you, President. As stated by the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist group, on this occasion I have not spoken about the recent and present management of EITB by the current Directorate of the Basque Nationalist Party or by the Basque Nationalist Party. I didn't say the things that I said solidly when we talked about EITB, I think you've had a chance to check it out. I have not repeated the arguments put forward in other debates. I have not recalled that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government use EITB for their own benefit, I have not said any of that, because I do not think it is today's debate. And I think I've focused on trying to explain what we think are the five fundamental reasons why it makes no sense to present a programme contract five months before an autonomous election is called. And besides that reason I have given others. And certainly, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, you have not raised any contradiction to any of these reasons. Therefore, I do not attach so much importance to the specific content of this contract-programme, nor to the management carried out by EITB in recent years, I think it is not today's debate. In addition, I have also pointed out that we support the contract-programme formula. What I have explained are five reasons, which I think perfectly explain why it makes no sense to present a programme contract on a day like 25 February, and I have explained each of those reasons. By the way, Mr. Unzalu didn't convince me of anything. I could have convinced myself, it is good in politics to be convinced, but in this particular case I do not know whether it has been established that we have also presented an initiative and that they are being discussed together and that it has been agreed that we defend the same idea. Look, the reasons are these, I repeat. A year ago, this Parliament called for the resignation of the current Director-General of EITB. A year ago this Parliament said that it could not continue in its position, so given this circumstance, it seems not only to us illegitimate that this person should remain in its position, but even that it seems much worse that this same person should try to extend or project the current model of EITB for the next four years, this is one reason. You may have arguments to counter it, I do not say no, but I ask you to do so in your second speaking round, because perhaps you can convince some of the groups. I have given you another reason which I believe is important, and it is that this Parliament has agreed to set up a special committee to lay the foundations for the model we want for EITB. That is to say, this Parliament has clearly expressed itself in the idea that the EITB model needs to be changed and adapted to the new times. That is why it does not make any sense that a few months later, without this committee having been set up and, much less, drawing up an opinion, the Basque Government, on the part of the EITB, is presenting us with a programme contract which forgets this essential question, the will of this Parliament to change the model of the EITB. Third reason. When this contract-programme is presented, it is only a few months before the end of this parliamentary term. The most reasonable thing I understand, and given that this Parliament can change quite a bit, is that a few months are waiting for this programme contract to be presented. But do not take these reasons as isolated reasons, because they all add up and constitute in the end what are the five fundamental reasons raised by UPyD. Moreover, this programme contract, as has already been said by some other group, has not been negotiated or agreed. And finally this contract-program, approaching us even slightly to the content of it, the truth is that it tries to perpetuate a failed and exhausted model. Therefore, it is not so much a question of deciding today the new model for EITB, nor of agreeing today the contract-programme, no, we do not intend so much, it is impossible. It is a matter of insisting that in the present circumstances this contract-programme should be withdrawn. But I say, even beyond the very content of this programme and even beyond the management carried out by EITB over the last few months. These are, therefore, the reasons, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria. Therefore, in your second round I ask you, truly, for the sake of politics, that if you have strong arguments to put down these reasons, you explain it to us, but do not talk about other things. These are the reasons UPyD raises for requesting the withdrawal of this contract-programme. The formula of the contract-programme in general supports it, but this contract-programme raised on these dates under all these circumstances, we understand that it must be withdrawn. And I think this is shared by all groups in the House, except the Basque Nationalist Party. In any case, Mr Uribe, normally you and I have a lot of discussion, I think you have the opportunity in this second round to make arguments on these issues that I have raised to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u88	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u89	Thank you again, Madam President. Look, Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria, it's not that I'm going to get involved much, in politics one is already used to hearing about everything and whether the initiative is ridiculous or not, that everyone will appreciate it. And with regard to whether you have hired us or not, it is not that I deny Mr Unzalu the ability to convince, or that I deny that it is sometimes good to reach agreements and change my mind in politics, but that the reasons I have given here are the same as I said in the committee. Before this initiative was presented, I already said that the presentation of this contract-programme was not appropriate. Before entering the disqualifications, you have theorized about what is a contract-program, about the goodness of the multi-annuality of a contract-program. And I repeat what I said in the first intervention: that there is a contract-programme in which each of the parties sets out what commitments and contents it has to fulfil, can be good; that it is better to have a multi-annual character to give stability, too. But if that's the case, why don't you do it in the first year of the legislature? I imagine you're going to tell me the same thing the counselor told me: because there was no economic certainty. And now there is? Tell Mr. Gatzagaetxebarria, because he doesn't have it so clear, and neither does Mr. Lehendakari. Now is there a total and absolute certainty of knowing that in four years' time the revenues that are going to be produced are really true? And you were talking to me about whether or not I know what the content of the contract-program is. Man, we'll have to see what the commitments are. The Government's commitment is clear: to put money. And above all it is clear the objective of this contract-programme, which is that with the difficulties and the continuous deficit that every year has EITB... And don't tell me there's no deficit. Of course, there's no deficit because then Dad comes government at the end of the year and gives it to the subtractions and that's why it blocks. But with the economic problems you have over the losses you're having in advertising, what you want is to ensure you have that funding. But you'll have to see what obligations EITB has. And in that regard, I agree with some of the issues that have been raised here. It puts on paper the bet for the euskera. And I've told him on some occasion: is that if something makes sense in EITB as a public service is precisely ETB1, because no private channel is likely to bet on a television in Basque, and as a public service, ETB has to give it. But it has to have the same quality as television in Spanish. And I'm going to give you an example that was put on the board itself that you were on. In some elections, when the election night was being commented on, really vividly, it could be done on ETB2, on ETB1 not. Canned programming was put in. And that's not having the same quality in Basque as in Spanish. Then, the commitment is very good to put it on paper, but then you have to fulfill it.And with regard to truthfulness, impartiality, listen, really. And don't give me that we're leaders in the Teleberri. Because being a leader is not a guarantee of impartiality. And don't tell me we're all out, because it's not a guarantee either, I told you. Some opposition groups, for what they dedicate to us the minutage, save it. What is not welcome, therefore, is to put a series of commitments on a role, and the one who presents these commitments is a direction that if for something has been characterized over these four years is because none of those objectives have met them, none of those principles have met them. So, that could be authorized? Yes, because it's the current EITB Directorate and the current counseling. That they're legitimized? No, no, And besides having no legitimacy, we have all explained it here: the current model of EITB is in absolute crisis, is worn out and exhausted. And you were laughing here, considered ridiculous a contract for five months, which is theoretically missing to finish the legislature, or continue with which we are and face a contract-program in the first year of the legislature. Of course, there are sometimes multi-annual plans, which go beyond a legislature, but not with almost full implementation in the next legislature. That's compromise. If that had been done with the government of Patxi López and Mr.Surio, I do not want to think, there is no sky high enough for the scream to arrive. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u90	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The representative of EH Collector, Mr. Urruzuno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u91	Mr. Uribe Housekeeper, don't try to get Twitter for no reason, they've erased it. Somewhere they've noticed the size of it, but I've recorded it, I'll show it to you later. And given Mr Maneiro's impatience to know the meaning of our vote and the perplexity caused by the speech to Mr Unzalu, I have intended to make arguments for the programme contract to change, for it to change content, not for it to be left on one side or on the other. Because what we have to make clear is that Euskal Herria Bildu, from the beginning of the legislature, is having a fairly clear speech about the functioning of EITB and how things are being done in EITB, and I think it is a rather critical position. But the criticism automatically does not involve joining you. Because, really, we have an essential difference as far as EITB is concerned. As for everything else, quite more, but as for EITB an essential, which is the starting point. The starting point is that we believe that EITB is necessary for this people, that EITB must perform a public function, must perform a social function, EITB must contribute, must contribute to the normalization of the euskera, etc. And we believe that the People's Party, UPyD and sometimes the Socialist Party are also in a continuous strategy of harassment and overthrowing EITB. And we tell you clearly, we are not going to participate in that Brunette, we are not going to participate in that strategy of harassment and continuous destruction against EITB, we are not going to do it. And with our criticism in the previous round too, what we have intended to do is that, there is a criticism, but as in our amendment, we try to make that criticism constructive and we try to say what needs to change. So that's what we've been trying to rectify. As I said, a contract program is now a problem for us, i.e. the main problem is not that it is done in the process of legislation. The main problem is the content of this contract program. We also criticize the form, how it has been made, and when it has been done, but the problem in the brain is substantial. And we think the content should be changed. And in this sense, that is what our correction has attempted, and we shall see how far it is protected by the vote. And when we speak of content, we speak for the benefit of transparency, to set up at least the limits of the sea-waterers' system, and to ensure the transparency of that system. What we plan is to establish a professional career for official offices who participate in the structure of news, in order to reach these charges by a professional career and not by finger chosen. We plan to provide a specialization of journalists in the area. We plan that the presence of all radio and television channels should be euphorium, and that as it is the chief goal of the group, all chains must respond to this end, and not, as I have mentioned here, in a case of absoluteization, where it condemns the resistance to a second level or to a second level. We plan that a contract made with the University of Basques must also be localised on that contract program. And we're asking for a commitment because here it's been discussed with the budget and that these budgets can adapt to the policy of the next government and all that. We see him compare. The presupustary games we think are few, they're small. We have to go beyond this, if we want to have a suitable EIB, and we ask that these games should mark the minority for our next engagements. So, like I said, that's what we're asking for. Our review doesn't have to be automatically combined in this case, in this case, with what groups have done today. We'll move on with ours. So, we're going to represent abstition by Socialists, Populars, and the middle-way thatUPyD has made, and we'll continue with our corrections. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u92	Eskerrik asko, yellow Urruzuno. Euzko Abertzaleak taldearen ordezkaria, Uribe-Etxebarria jauna, zurea da hitza. URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: Eskerrik asko. Telegraphically, Mrs Llanos, the truth is that I am very much tempted to ask for Mr Surio's appearance, and you would see how, from a professional and relatively objective point of view, you would undoubtedly endorse this contract-programme. Among other things because he had enough to suffer from the fact that he could not have a multi-year contract-programme when he ruled the Socialist Party with you, with your support. Deficit is that of Spanish Television, not that of ETB nor that of EITB. Don't confuse me or distort my terms, that's what it usually does. And man, leader in news is at least a guarantee of credibility. Which for an information professional is a priceless treasure. I'm a little worried because I don't know if you understand what the real nature of the contract-program is. In other words, the contract-programme does not measure the quality or impartiality of the information given is the Gaur Egun or the Teleberri. But it's not that either in this contract-program or in what we've had so far. So what I'm asking is an effort to try to understand what the true nature of the contract-program is and not to demand more than it really is. In short, EITB has basically a certain programming hours, which, in exchange for a certain funding, distributes them for certain objectives, with a certain mission and with a series of commitments, which in this case are 11. And it distributes it according to languages, according to languages, that we could actually talk about it, because it's not a new topic. That is therefore the true nature of the programme contract. I have answered you, Mr. Maneiro. Perhaps I have not quoted you, just as Mr Unzalu has embellished you, because you are proposing a five-month programme contract, which I find profoundly ridiculous, is a disappointing and ridiculous proposal. And what I'm saying is, what has EITB's address done? For the management of EITB, such as the Basque Government and the department of Councillor Uriarte, what they have done is assume their responsibility. They have assumed their responsibility to try to ensure the best possible present and the best possible future for EITB. And in this work, one of the fundamental instruments that we pioneered here and that use all radio and television, or if you want public media groups, is the contract-program. And what this government and this EITB Directorate have achieved is to regain the multi-annual nature of the programme contract, which I believe is a real triumph. And for all those who should have an institutional consideration of EITB, beyond other criticisms, beyond other disagreements, we should be happy and satisfied. The contract-program can be changed. If you did, Mr Unzalu, with the penalty that Mr Surio was carrying for these amendments and for not having a multi-annual programme contract. It can be modified and modified upwards. In the years that come when the debates of the past come, Mr. Uruzuno, perhaps propose the budget of EITB. That's possible. Every agreement foresees either its alteration or its accusation, or its suspension, or its delay. There's perfect empathy, Mr. Unzalu. These are not really solid arguments. What there is is a discussion above all about a question of financial availability. But if you suffered it, and you acted as you did, if you removed – I insist – the multi-annual nature of the contract-programme, one of its fundamental characteristics. And what has happened is an effort on the part of the Basque Government and the EITB Directorate to assume each other's responsibilities in these commitments, demands, mutual responsibilities and of a bilateral nature. And the same way you got angry, which is really amazing, because this year EITB has a slightly bigger budget, now it also goes and turns out that it gets angry or upset because in the coming years there is a certain commitment for EITB to have more funding. Look, Mr Urruzuno said it, we have said it more than once, we regard EITB as one of the fundamental pillars of Basque self-government, because in an open, globalized world, where information passes and somehow is conveyed not only at great speed, and not only at great speed, but are stereotypes of life, they are cultural canons, which a people like the Basque people have in the different offer to which they have access from a multimedia group of public character, which drives in Basque, which is in Basque, which boosts Basque culture and gives the vision of things, of their reality, the very one that surrounds them, from their own point of view, is something fundamental. And it is a right we have as a people that since 1973 – reports MacBride, Mr.Unzalu – has been accepted worldwide. Therefore, whatever it is to work in favour of EITB, its present and its future, will count on our support. And you guys stop putting sticks on the wheels. Well, there's little left for you, just a few months to go on with that burning ground opposition, which one day you'll have to explain why that change, what are the real reasons for that change and that 180-degree turn you've given.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u93	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. End of discussion, we'll vote for the Basque Socialist, the Esquilists, the populars of Euskal and the middle-line correction signed byUPyD-Misto. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contrarys, 27; whites, 0; Abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u94	As equality is, we'll repeat it again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contrarys, 27; whites, 0; Abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u95	As it follows equality, we will leave it to the next plenoe. Number of points in theme list: "As for the popular Eduscal Group, as far as Bilbao Air. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Llanos, who represents the Potion of Euscals, has the word to introduce and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u96	Thank you, Madam President. As you all know, Bilbao Air is a company created in 2001, theoretically – and I say well, theoretically – for the promotion of Bilbao Airport, with an initial capital of 240,000 euros. And in its constitution participates the Chamber of Commerce, the Basque Government, the Foral Diputation of Bizkaia, the municipalities of Derio, Sondika, Loiu and from 2004 that of Erandio. Since its constitution it has received an amount of around 3 million euros of public funds and has had only one worker, its general manager Jon Gangoiti, who has held various public positions in his party and who after them has called on Bilbao Air. The remuneration received by this worker between 2001 and 2014 has been almost 1 million euros. And that the financial problems of this society have been constant and their expenses as well. Since 2009, a major deficit has been progressively generated. The reason is very clear: income is reduced, but this is not accompanied by a decrease in expenditure. In 2010 it already had a deficit of almost 50,000 euros, in 2011 double, 97,000. Revenues had been cut, but compared to them, expenses to maintain their structure were increasing. Thus, these expenses amount to 250.000 euros in 2010, among which 82,000 euros have just been highlighted from the director's salary, 31,500 in representation expenses and 54,500 euros in several, including a magazine and a website. Expenditure in 2011 amounts to EUR 170,000. Despite successive injections of public money, at the end of 2012 it has an accumulated deficit of up to 400,000 euros. For this reason, it is finally decided to reduce social capital, transform it into a limited society and continue to inject more public money. After that year and despite, as I say, more contributions of public money, of the cancellation of a debt by the Basque Government, today society continues to accumulate deficit. And it is that society lives exclusively on public contributions, contributions that have been decreasing, but this decrease has not been accompanied by a containment of expenditure. When there is a lack of resources, we usually say that the belt needs to be adjusted. But Mr. Gangoiti only had to adjust his belt when he was travelling by plane and by obligation, because of course on land and as far as the expenses of society were concerned, the belt had absolutely untangled him. For example, on his own salary. In 2012, despite economic problems, the salary was raised from EUR 82,000 to EUR 84,000 per year. And in the same year, travel and representation costs are increased by 50 per cent. When I asked the lady to advise on expenditure data for 2001 and 2014, we have spent 60,000 euros on advertising and 365,000 euros on travel. Thus, we find that 31,000 euros is spent in hotels, 22,500 euros in gift items, 20,000 euros on mobile, 17,500 euros in restaurants, 16,400 euros in private club, 7,200 euros in taxi, always with the same, 2,000 euros in a winery. And if we go further down to detail, we find ourselves spending on merchandising... That said, of first quality, the merchandising used by this company was leather wallets, pens at 30 euros the unit, mp4 at 75 euros the unit, umbrellas at 25 euros. That is, as is commonly said, as it was thrown with king's gunpowder, for merchandising could be of high quality. And Mr. Gangoiti's trips and meals weren't austere either. Getaria was travelling by taxi, and so on, for example, in a taxi that takes her, waits while she eats and brings her back, she spends almost 450 euros, more than on a plane ticket to Madrid. Diets per mileage were also substantial, above average. And the accounts in restaurants aren't light either. The menu of the day did not go, it was rather given to the chopper, to the bogavante, to the besugo. As my partner said, Mr. Gangoiti didn't like the cod route, what he liked was the bogavant route. He has had negative balances on the card of the society that he handled, he has been threatened to include him in the file of late and block the card for default of the expenses that it charged to it. And before this one has to ask: Do all these expenses really relate to the company's activity? Are they really necessary? Are they really reasonable? In response to the question I raised in the plenary session, the adviser pointed out that the company's activity is related to encouraging the establishment of new companies, to conclude conventions with decision-making bodies of international airlines, which have then opened lines or established themselves in Bilbao. In another chamber, at the Bizkaia General Councils, even attempts were made to link Bilbao Air's action with the return of companies such as British Airways, when neither the company's own website mentions it and in the return act of this company certainly Mr. Gangoiti was not there. Or also the achievement that companies like Lufthansa chose Loiu airport. And it is true that Mr. Gangoiti, apart from the pimple and the bogavante, also had a desire for the Germans, because conventions with Lufthansa have been several, conventions that have cost the Basques a lot of money. And two issues need to be highlighted in this regard. First, in order to get Lufthansa to be in Bilbao, is it necessary to spend 1,800 euros in rooms at the Hotel Domine or almost 4,500 euros in a cocktail for 200 people? Is it necessary to take the Germans to a winery of the Marquis de Riscal and spend almost 3,000 euros? Is it necessary to take them to eat the Guria and use 3,500 euros? Besides that it is not necessary, secondly it must be said that Lufthansa has been established in Loiu for more than 25 years, he has been in Bizkaia since 1990. Lufthansa was here before Bilbao Air and before Mr. Gangoiti. She also pointed out that the company was responsible for expanding the airport's area of influence. And one might wonder, therefore, whether Lugo or Santiago de Compostela can also be included within that area of influence. Are you guys coming from there to catch a plane here? Is this then the justification for a meal with perceptions of Mr. Gangoiti in Santiago de Compostela or for a well watered meal with French champagne in a restaurant in Lugo? Does this fit into the "reasonable expenses" that the counselor pointed out? If of course it falls within that concept of "reasonable enough", it is that the counselor and this group have different concepts than reasonable. But one proof that it was not considered so reasonable is the amendment itself of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. It states that rationality and austerity in expenditure must be applied, and that mechanisms should be set up to account for such expenditure and the actual results of this society, proof of the fact that so far it has not been done. And that amendment also contains another issue, namely that there has been no way of assessing the effectiveness of this society, and that is why an ambitious business plan is called for. And also that systems be put in place to assess the achievements achieved, as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of the intermediation of this society. And to this one has to ask: 15 years later, after 15 years running, are they now considering making a business plan and a system that will measure the effectiveness of society? What do you want me to tell them? To this one can be applied a well-punished saying that is "at good times, green sleeves", and could also be applied another, the "it is never late if the bliss is good". But this is not good, because the effectiveness of this society is null and void, and has been called into question by the Basque Court of Auditors itself. In its report, the court stated that "there are no indicators to link the detailed activities and commercial developments of Bilbao airport", in addition to highlighting Bilbao Air's lack of coordination with Aena. In view of the lack of justification of expenditure and the lack of efficiency of society, in 2011 and 2012, the Basque Government, then with the socialists at the head, cancelled the subsidy it granted to society. And this brought with it financial problems for the same and the hole, as I said before, of 400,000 euros. And to cover that hole, it had to rescue, here yes, rescue society. The arrival to the government of the Basque Nationalist Party implies the forgiveness of a debt of almost 90,000 euros and the rescue, as I say, of society by providing more funds. He went back to the public subsidy. We doubt whether what he turned to is the justification of his activity, which has not been clear from the origin of it. I have already expressed the reasons that led to the creation of this society, we had doubts about it, about those reasons. We do not know whether it was to put the Txapella to the promotion of the airport, rather than to management, because management is not the competence of our Autonomous Community. Which would not be unusual, because putting txapelas in organisms is something that the Basque Nationalist Party likes very much, there is nothing more to see than the weather forecast, which is a clear example of this: the Basques we pay twice because they tell us if tomorrow is going to rain or it is going to make sun. But we believe that on this occasion it weighed another reason and was to seek a job location for a nationalist public discharge. And this goal was certainly met more than ever. And now what we are expecting from the People's Group is who will inherit Mr. Gangoiti's office when he retires, because actually the positions in the Basque Nationalist Party and in some societies are hereditary, just like the monarchy. To the lack of control over excessive expenditure and the lack of utility of society, one must unite opacity, the lack of transparency in it. The Court of Auditors' report shows that finger-to-toe contracts are carried out, and that in 2012 there was no contractor profile, as required by the Public Sector Contracts Act. And a sample of the lack of transparency is how this group has been provided with information. The People's Group, through our spokesman at the Bizkaia General Councils, requested access to the information and expenses of this society. He was not supplied and was told that he had to go to see her directly at the headquarters of the society. I went with him to get to know the documentation, because I had already presented the initiative in this House, because this issue was being dealt with here and in our role of controlling the government, which provides funds to that society, we also wanted to know what those expenses were. Despite the fact that the representative of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Landeta, knows perfectly well that I am a Member of this House, that my interest in the matter was justified, as I say, by the control work on funds provided by the Basque Government, he literally kicked me out of the Chamber's offices and prevented me from having access to information. And access to information was as if they were looking at the reserved funds. I believe that looking at reserved funds is simpler than checking the expenses of this society. All the time you looked at the information there was a vigilante behind you looking at what you were looking at, worth the redundancy. Therefore, we are facing an opaque society, a society that squanders unchecked public money and a society whose activity is absolutely questioned. There are groups in this House who shared this vision before and who, apparently, now – I will use the word before – have been fooled. Socialists were not as clear as they now seem to have the relation of society's expenditure to society's activity. Thus, following the report of the Basque Court of Auditors, he asked the General Councils of Bizkaia for the appearance of the foral deputy of Economic Promotion, to give explanations of that society. There was also a non-standard proposal calling for the dissolution of society, and then Mr Torres intervened to question the usefulness of it and voted in favour of taking steps to sell the shares that the Parliament had in Bilbao Air and to dissolve it. Today, on the other hand, they propose, together with the Nationalist Group, to continue with it and to make, now, a strategic plan and a containment of expenditure. Like I said, 15 years later. From our group, we do not consider that a specific company is necessary for the promotion of Loiu airport. And we ask that the Basque Government bring its dissolution and that, if the requirement is not met, it withdraw its share participation. We also call for the rejection of the economic management carried out by its management, which does not conform, in a kind way, to the minimum criterion of effectiveness. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u97	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u98	Thank you, President. On a public body, anyone, one must first assess whether it is necessary to exist and then whether its action corresponds to the purposes for which it was supposedly created. Societies for the creation of airports, with greater or lesser public presence, exist in almost all countries and in a very accused way in Spain, perhaps because we have more airports than the average and also some examples that sincerely are to forget. Only in Euskadi do we have the Vitoria International Airport, VIA, for the promotion of Foronda, composed of the Chamber of Commerce, the Basque Government; in Gipuzkoa Ortzibia, centered on the airport of Hondarribia and in which are, in addition, the municipalities of Irun and San Sebastián; and in Bizkaia, Bilbao Air, created in 2001 by the Chamber of Commerce, the Basque Government, the Chamber of Commerce and the municipalities of Loiu, Derio, Sondika and Zamudio. Bilbao Air, when created, intended to respond to several objectives. The fundamentals, attract new airlines and air frequencies, improve the airport's connectivity and promote new companies to establish their operating centre in Loiu. Therefore, on paper its usefulness seems beyond doubt. We therefore find it unreasonable for the Group of the European People's Party to raise abruptly the dissolution of society because it considers that it does not fulfil the purposes for which it was created. An approach in which it coincides, curiously, with EH Bildu, which is also the news. Seriously speaking, if it is considered that an entity, which in principle appears not to be discussing its usefulness, does not meet the stated purpose, the reasonable first of all, is to take steps to correct the situation and to ensure that it does not dissolve it. I will not deny that for many years, you have remembered, my group has had many doubts about the efficiency and rigour in the management it was developing in Bilbao Air its director. And we have repeatedly expressed this at the General Councils of Bizkaia, without the PNV, at the head of the Parliament, being alluded to at any time. That is why our group asked three years ago in that chamber that the Basque Court of Auditors will monitor Bilbao Air's accounts, until then subject to external audits contracted by the company itself. And once the audit was carried out, we had the Chamber explain its outcome at the Bizkaia General Boards. In its report, the Basque Court of Auditors concluded that the company reasonably complied with the legal regulations governing its financial-economic activity and did not object to the accounting data and financial transactions carried out in that year. However, as we understood that the concept of legality does not always coincide with that of transparency and efficiency, which are also fundamental, we raised doubts. And that is why, in the end, a socialist outlaw deputy, Mr Vicente Reyes, has had to arrive, whom you know well enough in this House, who is now the holder of Transport in the Chamber, so that these criteria of efficiency and transparency can be introduced into the functioning of Bilbao Air. This is what Mr Reyes did at the last meeting of the board of directors of that company, whose results, by the way, he subsequently reported to the Bizkaia Boards. But that there is agreement between the company's own objectives and the expenditure incurred, most of them in advertising, consultancy, contacts with operators, airlines, fairs, etc., does not guarantee, in any case, the efficiency in the management that is carried out. And that is why, with a positive view, we believe it is time to see if it is possible to improve the functioning of Bilbao Air, so that it better meets its objectives and that its management is transparent and also evaluable. A demand that is, by the way, not only to the promoter society of the Loiu airport, also, because here we are in the Basque Parliament, to which they operate in Foronda and Hondarribia. That is why, in the amendment we have agreed with the Nationalist Group, we call for government representatives on the boards of directors of the three companies to propose in all of them the elaboration of a strategic plan that includes an ambitious business plan and evaluation systems to define the achievements. In addition, mechanisms should be established to assess the effectiveness, efficiency and usefulness of their activities, applying criteria of rationality and austerity in expenditure and transparency in their public explanation. And let there be – and this seems very important to us – coordination, collaboration and joint actions with other bodies, such as Aena, which does not so far take part in these same societies, because each of them will have to ensure the interests of the airport it deals with, yes, but without losing sight of all the general interests, unless we also want to repeat here on the airport theme the three taifas kingdoms of each of the territories that make up the Autonomous Community. The three airports are in the same country, have a public character and cannot and must not compete by making war with each other, but by taking advantage of the niches in which they are strongest. We believe that this is the way, in all three cases the most reasonable and positive. But I want to tell you more. If there is no coordination between the three companies, if Aena is not able to participate in each of the three companies as logically one of the main elements, I think we should seriously consider, if this does not work, the existence of the three airport promotion companies that exist in Euskadi. That is the view of the Basque Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u99	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u100	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu anderea. Sailburu anderea, legebiltzarkideok, aratsalde on guztioi. "Where there is no one can't get out of it" and "calumnia that something remains": with these two sentences made or with these two sayings, which I see you also like, I would sum up why this motion doesn't law. Clearer impossible. Accusing is very easy and doing unnecessary free damage as well, but, no matter how hard it is, "where there is no one can't get out." On what basis do you make the statements that justify, in your view, this non-law proposition? The answer to this question is clear and concrete. They are based on wanting to find in others, in this case in the Basque Nationalist Party and in the current Basque Government, what you have in your home: corruption, theft and misuse of money and public resources. Unfortunately, their political formation is up to the point of cases of corruption and they try to splash others. No reliable evidence, I repeat, no evidence. That is to misrepresent, manipulate, defile, lack of truth, without evidence, without solid arguments and without proven justification. I repeat that "where there is no way out", no matter how much you try, no matter how much you try, no matter how much you make up accusations, no matter how much you use false arguments, no matter how much you like to be right. The truth is clumsy and ends up coming out and the lie has very short patitas. The desire and obsession they have to find something dirty, cloudy and dark in the management of EAJ-PNV and in the current government, I think it leads them to believe their own arguments – arguments that fall, by the way, by their own weight – and to raise this non-law proposal. Why do they only raise it with Bilbao Air? The goal is to slander, because, as I have said, "calumnia that something remains". Let's distract the Basques and the Basques to see if we can cover up or camouflage what we have in our own homes, our own shames, cover up our own on the basis of splashing others. The accusations are made too lightly, and although it is shown that nothing was true and that there was nothing reported. Then nothing is done to correct the error, and the runrun stays there, and of course also the long shadow of suspicion. Bilbao Air 2001. It was in the year to fire up Bilbo's airport. To this end the society was created, and it is said, in contrary arguments, that it does not fulfil its end, and does not fulfil it, that is, it does not promote the airport of Biscaia. As appears in memory of 2014-year-old acts, the airport is encouraged. After describing the actions that have been done, who can say that nothing has been done, and that for the sake of the end that nothing has been done and nothing has been obtained? Bilbao Air promotes the airport among the prescribers, contacting airlines and the main travel agencies and tour operators. Close collaboration is maintained with Aena, both at Bilbao airport and in Madrid, with the management of Grupo Uno airports, to detect new destinations and new companies, and to do everything necessary to maintain the proper functioning of those already operating at this airport. The maintenance and updating of the website, in addition to promoting Bilbao Air, disseminates complete information about the activities, services and offers available from the airport to both companies and individuals, as well as travel agencies and tour operators. It has a section to know what Bilbao Air is, its functions and objectives, and a news section. It provides information on the airport with statistics, promotes Bilbao and links to airports, airlines and travel agencies. Bilbao Air conducts an analysis of the behaviour and evolution of Bilbao airport. It studies trends and changes in passenger traffic. Prospects are set for the coming years: challenges, objectives and necessary actions. New destinations are offered, and national traffic evolves in its growth as well as the international one. Internal business destinations, internal holiday destinations and international destinations have also increased. During 2015, new regular destinations have been established such as Bilbao-London (Gatwick) with Vueling, Bilbao-Bristol with EasyJet, Bilbao-Zurich with Swiss Air, Bilbao-London (Heathrow) with British Airways, Bilbao-Praga and Bilbao-Rome, Bilbao-Brussels, Bilbao-Santiago and Bilbao-Palma with Vueling. To promote an airport is to do all the actions I've just mentioned. So, what's the problem? Why is it said that social society has not fulfilled its goal, that it has not been encouraged by the airport, that it has increased and strengthened its offer? What do those who say that? The data and memory are there, there is no doubt about it, or there is no doubt about it. Who's been to VIA Gasteiz until recently? Who is in the societies of Burgos and Zaragoza? We, together with the Socialist Group, call on the Basque Government to continue to develop the objectives. In addition to Bilbao Air, VIA and Ortzibia. I'll never repeat what we ask again. But we're asking for all this because we don't have any doubts. We know how these three societies have worked, what they've done before, what they've done, what they've done, and the improvements they've made. I've explained them and they're data that can be easily verified. No doubt, but we're always ready to go for improvement. This is the basis of this government, the axis, the end, duty, our will. This is the way we have followed, the way to work: always forwards, by improvements, for all of us who are here, fulfill our goals and erect new challenges and attain them with the help of all. It is the reality of the present day, though it is not proper for some to do it, and to pollute the management of the rest of those who try to do it over and over again. Bestalde, gastuei dagokionez, Vicente Reyes jaunak orin de la oso gutxi egin dituen bayztapenetan zera esaten du: "The willingness of the Chamber of Commerce to help me in this review has been full, and also the expenses I have seen apply to activities belonging to an airport promotion company. Apart from the normal financing cats, they are directed to activities related to the relationship with air operators, participation in fairs, promotion of the airport, corporate advertising, etc." Since Bilbao Air was founded in 2001, it has been like the sum of money which has been annually invested in the establishment. However, the annual expenses have come down. It hasn't been more than 125,000 euros in the last few years. Vicente Reyes jaunaren hitzetara itzuliz: "Every year independent audits are carried out, and to quote explicitly that of 2014, the last, appreciates that the annual accounts of the society express the faithful image of the property and the financial situation of the society". And also the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which has audited the accounts for 2012, says exactly the same thing. By the way, the court unanimously ruled and was presided over by Don José Ignacio Martínez Curiaque, proposed by the People's Party. Bilbao Air's accounts are in order for almost 16 years. We could look at the exact range of expenses, but I don't think it's necessary. Targets are fulfilled and expenses are justified. Still, we agree with the improvements. Promote the development of new lines and frequencies to improve the external connectivity of Bilbao, Bizkaia and the Basque Country. Improve airport connectivity with the environment, expanding the area of influence. Facilitate the establishment of new company operations centres in Bilbao. To disseminate and evaluate the evolution of the airport and its relevance to economic development in Bizkaia. To promote the quality of life of the inhabitants of the municipalities in which this airport has influence. Any promotional activity, the advantages of the airport, as well as the dissemination of a positive image of its environment. Promote inter-agency and public-private collaboration to achieve the goals of society. In order to achieve all these objectives, communication and promotion are necessary. The targets are specific and rich. The Bilbao Air societatate has already served. It's good to ask and know, but let those who work, let them do their job well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Lopez de Munin, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u102	Get out of the way. Only a few days ago the Spanish minister in office Rafael Catalá said that Panama is not a tax haven, but has a different tax culture. Today we come to hear something similar here from the hand of PSE and PNV: Bilbao Air is not a chiringuito. PNV and PSE have a different culture of responsibility and governance. Today we are not talking about strategic plans or rationality, nor about anything other than reviewing what has been happening in Bilbao Air for 14-15 years. It has the fabric that the initiative presents is the political group that has turned corruption, tax evasion, chanchulleo, amiguismo, clientelismo and the politics of the ball into its modus operandi. From former government presidents like Aznar to mayors, from ministers in office to councillors like Maroto with the rents of San Antonio de Gasteiz Street. Although it sounds quite rare, the PP presents today an initiative that talks about the mismanagement and misuse of a public-sector venture such as Bilbao Air. In these politically convulsed times, these things happen. As a matter of fact, without bringing you the ideological justification and arguments that can serve to defend our full correction today, I have brought you data which some are trying to lead us into the scope of management. I've brought data from the main meeting of Biscai and the same Bilbao Air. I must confess that it has been quite an experience to review the company's expense account during these years. It has been very interesting to spend my time seeing who are the people on the boards of directors of the companies with which Bilbao Air was engaged. Not to mention the grapevine Mr. Gangoiti has had, thanks to public money. This is due to kanpoko eta jendeak hobeto ulertuk duela gertatu dena datuak aipatzen badira. Before the data, it cannot be refuted, either they are true or they are not. And those I come to give you here are extracted from official documents from Bizkaia and Bilbao Air. The public money that has entered Bilbao Air is about 2.5 million euros since 2001, in which it is created. Since then, he's only had one worker. The workman in quotes and asking for forgiveness from the working people of Euskal Herria. So from now on I'll refer to Gangoiti as the one who lives in the patronage of the PNV with public money. Well, this gentleman has come to receive about a million euros in wages. Which means that out of every 10 euros of public money that came to Bilbao Air, 4 were for him. At the start of the society, back in 2002, several human resources companies were hired for tens of thousands of euros. Let us remember that there has only been one contractor during all this time, so human resources management should be an allegorical way of self-motivating, hoarding and paying for friendly businesses. Beasts spent harigari bat publicity gastuak izan dira. Another of the most surprising costs are advertising. There are grouped concepts as varied as advertising companies, gift companies, clothing companies, expensive hotels, expensive restaurants, expensive private clubs, shopping in winery, taxis, aerotaxis, a very sacrificed life that of the subsidized Gangoiti. Well, there are several data that are very curious. On the one hand, some of these companies, which also tend to have very good relations with the current Basque Government, with the Bizkaia Diputation and different municipalities of the PNV, have on their boards of directors the same people, share advisors, and some of them are recognized PNV militants. Curious. It is also curious that such advertising companies in some cases lack a website, or are not in service, or are relics of the Internet pleistocene. I don't know how advertising companies can get so many contracts with the public administration and adjacent companies, if it wasn't for their political contacts. It is also very curious that companies dedicated to these menus and to placing advertising in the media are plagued on their boards of directors by those responsible for the media themselves. It might appear that they were screen companies used to bite contracts with the Administration. The truth is that it's a curious issue for advertising companies. It is also curious that without a strategic plan to date, the subsidized Gangoiti, for which this ad hoc chiringuito was created, was spent until 2014 more than 370,000 euros on travel. For what purpose did you travel? I imagine that with the very noble objective of expanding your life experience and visiting interesting places. I don't think a trip to Avilés or Compostela or any other place would have a job purpose. Well, this gentleman, to whom the PSE and PNV defend and fund, spent about 25,000 euros of travel per year on average, without a strategic plan or anything, but with the full portfolio and the illusion of who knows that everything is paid. In his peace of mind he spent some 17,400 euros on expensive restaurants, and if necessary he took, according to Bilbao Air's explanations, the entire staff or delegation of Lufthansa food for example. Objective data. It also draws attention to the relationship with a company in Madrid that sells ties and handkerchiefs, the expenses were 12,000 euros. This gentleman was clear that wealth had to be socialized not only in Euskal Herria, but also in the neighboring kingdom, hence his costly expenses in expensive hotels and restaurants wherever he went. A taxi by road, with a cost of 7,000 euros, or in aerotaxi, for 3,500 euros; example of measure, austerity and rationality. Not like these families, about 1,400, who still receive income guarantee aid in Gipuzkoa and to whom the PNV wants to leave without the benefit. And it's just that the important thing is the important thing. In 2012 Bilbao Air's debt was 400,000 euros. After the help of this government and the rest of the partners injecting more public money, by 2014 it had already dropped to 255,000. By the way, you just have to look at the balance sheets to realize that Bilbao Air's activity from 2012 to 2014 was drastically reduced, yet the salary did not go down or stopped paying. Maybe there was no activity, but the patron had obligations to the grantee. In 2014 the PSE itself called for the dissolution of society, but apparently, petanque parks and posts of political responsibility in the institutions afterwards, this issue is also seen with other eyes. When we're done, I'll give you a few other curious facts, I've been turning into them, and they've seemed pretty strange to me. This data has served me to make an image around the subject. For years there have been thousands of euros paid to a person, I will not give names from this atrium, but I can show you all this with data. The person I'm talking about is defined in his LinkedIn profile as – and I read it textually – "specialized in content management and implementation of web pages, as well as emailing and presence and dissemination on social networks of companies and institutions". Have you seen the actual Bilbao Air website? Have you really seen her? There are thousands of free blogs with better looks. It lacks its own content, all are external links and links. Have you looked at Bilbao Air's social media activity? I'm telling you: on Facebook today there are 309 people who like the official page and on Twitter 1,305. Quite a success. Well, this person has charged almost 70,000 euros. What has he devoted himself to? What contacts does this person have? No one was checking from Bilbao Air's board what was going on? Are you all accomplices? Finally, another curious fact, but there are so many. Let someone here explain to me how the ABC can get more than 30,000 euros in advertising. What kind of promotion is that? I do not deny that other media like El Correo, I imagine that the News Group too, received money for advertising directly, without passing the filter of the advertising companies of which I have previously spoken. But let the ABC take that amount of money, at least I find it very curious. In conclusion, I announce that we maintain our correction. What PNV and PSE have introduced is naturally rather embarrassing. The amendment tabled by PNV and PSE shows that in this country, as in that of our neighbours below, the important thing is not whether or not it is stolen, but who does it, and depending on that the consequences are different. Mr. Gangoiti has been subsidized since 2002. It has been thanks to the legal personality that this company was given to create it as SA and subsequently SL, so that public control and control would be more difficult. It has been because no one has demanded targets for that public money invested in society. It has been because there is a pact between the PNV and the PSE that prevents it from being monitored. Check whether or not the expenditure has been made, but whether or not the expenditure has been politically appropriate. And I tell you that Bilbao Air is the perfect example of clientelism, political friendship and management fraud. It is a shame that from a public institution you are allowed and you are complicit in this aberration and corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u103	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Passing to a group that hasn't issued any corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u104	Thank you very much, President. As has already been said, Bilbao Air is a company created in 2001 for the alleged promotion of Bilbao airport. They are part of the society the Bilbao Chamber of Commerce, the Basque Government, the Bizkaia Provincial Council and the municipalities of the area. Since then it has been a company that has consumed almost 3 million euros of public money. It has been financed only by the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Provincial Council, since the municipalities do not make any contributions and the Chamber of Commerce contributes the premises and overheads, and lacks its own revenue. The Government of López cancels the subsidy, since the company does not justify the expenses or the activity. With the Basque Nationalist Party back in the Executive, the society again receives subsidies from the budgets of the Autonomous Community, also covering its previous deficit. Bilbao Air is a company with only one employee, Jon Gangoiti, ex-charge of the Basque Nationalist Party, who, according to the information published in recent times, known thanks to the good political work of Mr Ruiz at the General Councils of Bizkaia and some parliamentarians of this House, has generated a lot of expenses in travel, gifts and hotels. Throughout this time the only subsidized employee of the company, who enjoys a salary of 80,000 euros, has added expenses worth 592,000 euros in advertising and advertising, 375,000 euros in travel, 114,000 in counseling, 31,000 in hotels, 22,500 in gift items, 16,400 in private clubs, 7,200 in taxi, 19,000 in mobile phone and 12,000 euros in clothing items, among others. This seems normal to the Basque Nationalist Party. And it's normal for the Basque Nationalist Party to feel normal, it's logical, it's its usual way of proceeding. In 2014 at the Basque Court of Public Accounts, he highlighted his lack of coordination with Aena, noted that he does not know the usefulness of the society and recalled that the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Provincial Council had to cover in 2012 a hole of 400,000 euros and forgive him a debt 84,000 euros, 88,500 if we include the interests. That is, we are talking about public society created by the Basque Nationalist Party, with only one worker from the Basque Nationalist Party, who receives only funds from institutions controlled by the Basque Nationalist Party, which has incurred a huge waste of public money and whose usefulness, according to the Basque Court of Public Accounts, is null or void, due to its null coordination with Aena. Having all this data and all the data also given by Mrs Llanos and Mr López de Munain, it is clear that there is no other option but to support the initiative of the People's Group and call for the dissolution of society. When I saw this initiative, naive of me, seven years after I was in this Parliament, I asked myself, "And what will the Socialist Party do?" And the answer has been the same as I have received during these seven years of Parliament, the same. Indeed, the Basque Socialist Party will again ally itself with the Basque Nationalist Party to cover up its trapicheos, its waste of public money and its shame. And they haven't reached a joint transactional, they haven't signed each other's, they haven't abstained, no. They have even signed a joint transactional for this society to move forward and there is a friend of the Basque Nationalist Party who continues to live on behalf of all Basque citizens. And they present this joint amendment, they now propose what this society and the other two societies that have a similar objective are supposed to do. They are now proposing this, they are now proposing the implementation of a strategic plan, they are now proposing the establishment of mechanisms to test the effectiveness and efficiency of the brokering of these societies, they are now proposing the application of rationality and austerity in expenditure, now, after having robbed us during all these years. They now propose the establishment of mechanisms to allow for an accounting of the actual expenditure and results of these companies. They now propose to promote inter-agency and public-private collaboration in order to fulfil the aims of these societies. And what have you been doing so far, all these years? This wasn't being done? You didn't control what was done in this society? Were you looking somewhere else? But even the Socialist Party at some point has called for the dissolution of this society. Yes, they sign a joint transactional. Mr Pastor said what he usually says in these debates, where at the last moment, I don't know if everything is already agreed, they decide to protect the Basque Nationalist Party. "If you don't coordinate with Aena, we'll be careful and ask for her dissolution." But "if you don't coordinate with Aena"? What then happens to what has happened during all these years? Who's in charge of all this waste of public money? There was talk of slandering, of entertaining the Basques. No, what the different groups have put forward here have been objective data in relation to what this society has done all these years, they are objective data, the money it has been spent on, the waste of public money, mismanagement, perfectly objective data. I don't want to slander, I want to ask questions. Gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, how many such societies exist in Euskadi? How many people from the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party live on silly soup? How many grantees keep in charge and at the expense of the money of the Basque citizens? A more direct question. Gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, how much public money have been stolen from Basque citizens, they keep stealing from us and they're going to steal from us in the future? Gracias. THE LEKENS: Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u105	Thank you again, Madam President. Judge, now I'm not going to use a saying, I'm going to use an expression that my children usually use, which is that you've left me dead. I understand that coming out to defend this is complicated, and when, as we have seen this morning, a defense is complicated, because it is squid ink: insult to the one in front, disqualification and so I get out of the jam. You said "where there is no, you can't get out." What's not wasteful? Really, what I've told you before, not only do we have a different concept than reasonable, we also have a different concept of waste. That there's no waste? Are you really telling me that Mr. Gangoiti, at everyone's expense, he's just going to eat island, he's eating chops – no, on island it was the bogavante – he's watering it with French champagne – that's right, no one knows what he's going for on island, it's going to be for islanders to go to Loiu airport – and that's not wasteful? Instead of using a normal merchandising, which in the groups we are used to doing in elections, those pasticquito balls, no, with money from all the luxury merchandising Basques. And that's not that "where there's no way out," that's in accounting. Got it with a lot of work, that's right. Because transparency is a motto, but then applying it is something else. But that's not that "where there's no way out", it's that those bills are there, and really, the culinary sibarita that is Mr. Gangoiti, I tell you, a breast to the plate doesn't appear, no, everything is chop, rich, you know, clams, humpbacks, everything. That's not wasteful. When Lufthansa is brought in for a king's talk, that's no waste. I'm telling you, we have very different concepts than waste. And you have come out here and that is why you have also left me dead, because you have reached the agreement, the amendment. If you're saying "no, if everything worked wonderfully, there was no waste, society had a total meaning." If that makes sense, why are you putting forward the amendment to "Now we're going to make a business plan, now we're going to control spending, now we're going to austerity." Because they don't believe in it. Because you think you've made it phenomenal and that you're PNV and you can do that and more. They do so to save the paper that today the People's Party initiative is not approved, but they do not believe in it. By the way, you, you know what's going on, there's a saying that it's a television ad, that's L-Oréal, "because I'm worth it." And that's you. The Basque Nationalist Party can do whatever expenses it wants "because I'm worth it." And you can spend, of course you can spend, whatever you want, man. And what is it that they're trying to control me, so far we could get to someone from the Basque Nationalist Party. That we don't have corruption, Mr. De Miguel had to go through there, we didn't, those things didn't. Pinosolo has been ratified by the High Court of Justice, but neither has it. I can do whatever I want, which is why I'm PNV, I can put whoever I want. And to give explanations, if I want to and with a vigilante behind and we have to do some detective work. But do you know what's going on? That being bad waste, being bad the placement of a public discharge to find a way out of work, the lack of utility, efficiency and effectiveness, but the worst is, as I say to you, that you believe you can do it because you have the right to do it. And the worst part is that you Socialists are helping him. They have gone from asking for the dissolution of society to present this pantomime of the business plan. Just as you went from asking for Mrs Oregi's resignation on the subject of Pinosolo, to not getting profiled, to turning your backs. But it's more. You, Mr. Pastor, when you publish this topic, which is published in the North newspaper, you publish a tweet, I have it here, in which you say: "One question or two", sorry for the expression, but it comes this way, "What the fuck is Bilbao Air? What's the point? Who pays for it?". You didn't have it so clear here. Now they're clear what Bilbao Air is. What's the difference? Mr. Reyes sits on the Council of the Bizkaia District Council.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u106	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u107	Soon, from the seat. Without going into the disqualification of the "you more", for which some sincerely are not too legitimized, in any case we maintain our judgment. It is true that we have had doubts about the effectiveness and functioning of Bilbao Air. It is true that we continue to have them, it is true that we think that it works if it works in the three societies of Euskadi, in that of Álava, of which you speak nothing by the way, that you took it for a long time to put flights on which no one was riding, in that of San Sebastian and in that of Bilbao. And we have said in the rostrum, and I repeat again, that these are elements that we consider essential for these societies to serve something, the three coordinated, and with Aena with efficiency and transparency. And if that is not the case, this motion will be meaningless and we will ask that the three, which has been shown to serve no purpose in that case, be dissolved. And I keep what I said in that tweet and I keep what we have said in the rostrum regarding that amendment and that transaction. I understand that it bothers you, but the same thing I was saying to Mr. Oyarzabal, for promotional campaigns, you hire an advertising agency.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u108	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u109	Eskerrik asko. For starters, I have not insulted anyone, and if not, review my previous intervention from above and you won't find a single insult. I have affirmed things, which of course are true, but not a single insult. The clear data that are objective, but the interpretation and reading that is made of these data, I think, are not so much objective. That of "seeing the straw in the eye of others and not seeing the beam in itself", to continue with the sayings, is nothing good for health and, of course, nothing recommendable. It is not recommended because it distorts reality and, worse, confuses citizens by wanting, with that bad intention that unfortunately we suffer too many times. True efforts have been made and are being made to disqualify this Government, but the Basques continue to rely on it and its years of management. For something it will be. I'll tell you again, "where there's no way out." And here, of course, they have shown nothing, no matter how much effort it takes, nothing has been shown. The allegations and accusations must be proved, but nothing. In 15 years of society's activity, three conventions have been held at Lufthansa, two at Air France, to give just a few examples. If this is not activity and promotion, I ask: what is it? It's work, work that belongs to Bilbao Air. It has also been noted that there is no relationship or joint agency with Aena. In his day, he was proposed to participate with the same percentage as the Chamber of Commerce, as the Bizkaia Provincial Council, as the Basque Government and the member municipalities. But from Aena it was answered that if they did, they would also have to do it with another 50 airports and that it was not possible. Bilbao Air belongs to the Basque Country Airport Coordination Committee and I assure you that its prestige outside our Community exists, it is real, contrary to what some and some would like to judge by what has been said here today. There is no unfair competition for Aena, it collaborates with Aena. If the audit has not discovered anything irregular, nor has the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which unanimously ruled and was presided over by a person chosen by the popular, why do they not focus on ordering their homes, working and letting others work and not trying to entangle in what works, in what contributes to our society? So far they have not managed to mislead the Basques and Basques, although they must be recognized what effort, gain and effort they put in. If they don't go down that much looking for what's not there, I'm sure they'd be better off. The expenses discussed here are expenses incurred during almost 16 years of activity. That must therefore be taken into account when analysing the figures. Clear accounts, justified expenditure, activity and demonstrated promotion. To the contrary, what the non-law proposition affirms does not prove anything: conjecture, falsehoods and desire to bind, to entangle and to frighten. What needs to be improved? Okay. We're on it. Let the accounts be clear, it is that we do not say it, the audits and the Basque Court of Auditors affirm it. The data given here have also been seen in the audits and the Basque Court of Auditors. Perhaps we know how to interpret this data more or better. What may be shameful is to think that we better interpret these facts, that's embarrassing. You know that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Lopez de Munin, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u111	Eskerrik asko. As the data is true, the problem now is interpretation. Interpreting the data is quite simple, and you tell us that it is 15 years' expenditure. Of course, and that's why I gave you the averages too, 25,000 euros a year for example on trips. A curious year, 2013, hardly has the company's activity. In advertising the expense is minimal, in trips not. This person's standard of living was kept within the company; his level of spending, in his things, i.e. at his dinners, meals and so on, was maintained. He's a grantee, he's a public grantee, but that's an objective fact. Another objective fact. All advertising companies that have taken money year by year, that is also an objective data; for 16 years, right, but an objective data. During all those years, I remember one of those companies, one of whose directors is a well-known PNV person in Bilbao, has carried a total of 90,000 euros, in 16 years too. But it is that a company in which he also participates in the board of directors also took more money. Other data. More companies not only advertising, but also marketing. During these years, there was no activity at all, because there was no strategic plan, no measurable objectives. What are you talking to me about data? There's not a single measurable target, not a single target. He tells me there's been five conventions. In 15 years, huh, that's one every three years. Quite an achievement. In the meantime, this gentleman kept eating every day, but well, we said before, chops, bogavantes and let him not miss anything, because we pay among all. The problem is that this smells like a golden retirement and nothing else. It's a society that hasn't done any work. And you just have to see the website, it's a shame, it's an absolute shame how that website is to promote something, it's a shame. I think that objectively you couldn't get into that website because otherwise, you wouldn't have said it here. Did he come in? And doesn't that sound like a shame to you? Honestly, what do you think? Seriously. (Barreak) No, it's serious enough. What do you think? Do you think you deserve more than 70,000 euros of spending that website, honestly? He will not tell me that there has been, beyond the vine that we have subsidized him among all. He won't tell me that this person is a great manager. Here we are not speaking like you in your amendment... Because, moreover, in your amendment the good thing is that both points 2, 3 and 4 recognise that management has been bad. They recognize it, assume it and say "and now we are going to establish mechanisms to prevent everything we are denouncing to them." They take it and they know it. The problem is that it's one of yours, and beyond what looks like the title a Mafia movie, what we can say is that the problem is that the PNV has it inside, because surely of these you will have enough, as you have already been caught in some other. That's his problem. But you don't have to defend here... In other words, the problem that we are also experiencing in politics is that we defend ourselves in an irrational way. And what you should have brought here is to assume, on the one hand, that management has been very bad, terrible, that you have to turn it around and that you will surely have to put someone else and do an analysis, which is what we and we asked in our amendment of what has been done so far. And not a private audit, because with the private audits, we all know what's going on here. The only thing they audit is whether the expenditure is reflected and whether the expenditure is well-considered or not. They do not audit the nature, whether these expenses correspond to a political activity or have any political objective, whether that expenditure is well done or not. They don't get in, because they can't get in, because they have absolutely nothing to measure it with. It was also said by the Basque Court of Auditors: it is not possible to know whether they serve anything or not because we do not have the possibility of knowing it either, we do not know what the activity of that company is. It is that the activity of this company has been none. And the biggest problem that exists in the end is that citizenship is left with the feeling, after these debates, that here you can do whatever you want because here everyone is going to go out of their way, absolutely nothing happens. This person has taken more than 1 million euros in salary, that is, in 15 clear years, but he has taken them away for free. We've given him a pretty good vidor and I think an early retirement of the most worthy. That retirement that we and we wanted for the rest of society and that you have denied it. Why? Because he wasn't one of yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u112	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Finally, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u113	Madam Judge. A statement that you have made has reached my soul, I do not know whether it is addressed only to Mrs Llanos or to all the opposition groups or to some of them. You have said that we are dedicated to tidying up our homes and letting others work. Did you say that? Our home is Euskadi. The public money is everyone's. How is it that we dedicate ourselves to looking at our home? We need to analyze what the government does, what each department does, what every public society does, what the institutional representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party or any other political party do where they direct and control public money. That is our fundamental work as Basque parliamentarians. Therefore, our home is Euskadi and we are dedicated to sorting it out and dealing with these initiatives, such as this and others, that there is maximum transparency, that there is not a single gram of opacity and that no one takes public money, which is of everyone. This is what we have done and to this we dedicate ourselves. This is our home and, therefore, we will continue to do that task. You say "the accounts are clear." Of course, accounting reflects the income that this society has had, the subsidies received and the expenses it has incurred, of course. What are you proposing? That there's some kind of B accounting? What are you proposing? That the accounts haven't been manipulated? No, indeed, as the accounts are clear and we have checked them, we have come to the conclusion that it is a real scandal that 3 million euros have been devoted to guaranteeing the life of a friend of yours, that is, of the Basque Nationalist Party. Therefore, we do not make any interpretation of the data, none, are objective data. What we do is add them and we say, "This is too much public money for one person and one company." It serves no purpose, as the Basque Court of Public Accounts said at the time, which did not know what its activity was. What are the results of this society? Can you explain what the results were? What has this society achieved, apart from allowing a member of the Basque Nationalist Party to live for many years? There are no results. And so, all this is what we're denouncing. Mr López de Munain said that the Basque Nationalist Party has the problem inside. No, it's just that we all have the problem, because there they go, ruling practically all the institutions. Untouchable, and when there is some kind of problem, parliamentary or non-parliamentary, they always find some friend willing to talk about shame, as in this case the Basque Socialist Party. So this is because the problem is with the Basque Nationalist Party and it's inside, no. We have everyone else, things that happen and things continue to happen, and here there is absolute impunity. And they allow themselves to say things like the ones that have been said here. And above all, it attacks the political groups that we ask for explanations for the management of the public money that has been made in this society. So, the problem is we have it. I mean, it's data. The salary of the only worker, more than 80,000 euros. Money for advertising and propaganda. What has been dedicated to traveling during all these years, 375,000 euros, this individual during all these years. 114,000 euros in advisory services, etc. And since we have all that data, the conclusion we have come to is that this society must obviously be dissolved. You have presented a transaction that in some way recognizes that this society has not been controlled, and therefore you propose everything you propose: applying rationality and austerity in spending, establishing mechanisms to allow for accountability, etc. And in previous years, what was done? Nothing. But in any case I asked you before, how many such companies exist in Euskadi? How many people do you have placed in one company or another so that you can continue to live on silly soup? I asked them this question, asked them a question to see if they could ever answer it. How much have you stolen from the Basque citizens? How much are you still stealing from us today? And how much, above all, are we going to allow us to continue to steal in the future through these mechanisms to place your people with the public money of all Basque citizens? Someday you'll have to answer that question. In any case, we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u114	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 11. The contrary, 41; white, 0; abstainments, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u115	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociaists of Basque Sociialists in the same manner. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters, 41; contraries, 30; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-14.u116	So it's accepted. I'm going to read an institutional statement later, because Nagono Karabajen's ceasefire was broken. "Nagorno [is] %95% of the population of Karabaj. This territory, owing to the incidents of history and the domestic interests on the other side of the inhabitants, was placed within thezers, and consequently the 20th. A long conflict which lasted all over the century began between Nagono Karabajen and Azerbaijan. and when the republics of Armenia and Azerbai were founded, the war became a war which lasted since 1988 to 1994. He killed thousands of dead and shifted them and ended by a pause of fire which, despite the tension of the conflict, prevented the war from following. "On April 2nd of 2016, Azerbazer began to attack Nagorus Karabaj, as never before, the entire perimeter of contact-line between them. This attack has caused dozens of casualties, among them four civilians, and one of them was a child. "Before the break of the truce, the Basque Parliament expresses its deep concern about the break of the cease-fire in effect since 1994 in Nagorny Karabakh, and expresses its sorrow for the victims that this attack has caused on both sides of the conflict. It welcomes the resumption of the truce announced by both parties on 5 April 2016, and trusts that these will be respected. Requests the release of the international mechanism for the detection of ceasefire violations proposed repeatedly by the co-chairmen of the Minsk group since 2012. It rejects the use of force for the resolution of any territorial conflict, which must be resolved through dialogue and respect for the majority will of the populations concerned, which must be expressed in a democratic manner and without any coercion of any kind. "He calls to the sides, to take the necessary practical measures, to stop the military action at once, and to retreat the military forces to places before April 1st, 2016. He carefully protects European security and co-worker's need to resume the process of negotiating with the Minsk team of the organization's organization, and Nagorno Karabajes as he had decided before." Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was 6 p.m. and 7 p.m.
