ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Sit in your seats. Remember, there's a deputy in Urruzuno, the Borja Sémper's in Laura Garrido. On the other hand, the sixth point has been withdrawn. First point in theme list: "Religion of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, the Maider Ottamo Industrial Institutions. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the committee have something to say? A number of legislatures to speak or to contradict the judgment? We'll simply vote for the union committee, except for the members of the legislature related to the Irdition, you can vote for the other members of the legislature. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 64; the votes given,66; the supporters, 66; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abscesssion, 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u1	The judgment is unanimous and approved. Second point on the subject list: "Gather the other bill made by the legislatures, to examine the project of AHTa for a sea-fight. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a proposal. Mr. Matute, it's yours to introduce the word as an initiative and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Today we bring a clear, short, precise proposal to this Chamber. Besides the attitude of each party towards a high-speed train, we think it necessary to record the cost and benefits of this infrastructure. We're asking him to do it when he thinks we're talking about the biggest and most expensive infrastructure he's ever been in in our country. As you will see in another legal proposition, the demand is very exact, because it is an investment that has consequences above all, and conditions any possible infrastructure in the future. And we think we ought to do so, wholesome, just, and necessary to offer all the information we have to use the public money, and to supply the expenses of which we ought to be ignorant, without supposition, without opprobancy, and without ever being able to enrich a few rarities. Because surely no one has any doubt that the TAV is a strategic bet; nor ourselves, that we have positioned ourselves against it since the start minute of the infrastructure itself. What seems also obvious, at least in this case to us and to us, to the people of EH Bildu, is that there is no rigorous analysis that accompanies the armor of that infrastructure. Thus it was recognized in the very impact on the economy of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of the Basque Y, realized by different professors of the university. We were told there, and it was said directly by the teachers responsible for making that report, that only benefits had been studied, not costs. Moreover, to quote it literally, it was said: "Second and very important, he has mentioned several times" – he referred to the group EH Bildu – "that we have not answered him (my apologies for not having done it before) about whether it was a real cost-benefit study. It is part of a benefit report, since what we are assessing here are economic impacts, i.e. benefits. Obviously, the other part isn't here. We have not assessed any of the costs." This has been the report that for a long time the relevant department of the Basque Government, or competent in the field we are dealing with today, has been using or reiterating as a defining element and central element in its defence of the high-speed train as a sustainable project, as a project that not only yielded benefits, but also took into account the cost-benefit analyses, which took into account what we were investing and how we were going to recover it for society as a whole. And yet, what we see is that the authors themselves of the report that has been used to justify that reading tell us that no, that it is just a profit report, that it is just a report that takes into account the possible economic, fundamentally economic, advantages that it could bring. And we say this because the very data he used – and so he was also recognized in the appearance – are obsolete data, they are data that is made based on the 2008 Eustat input-output analysis. It is a report made in 2012 using the 2008 input-output statistical data. I do not think it is necessary to remember in this House that 2008 is the year in which the dreaded and cursed crisis that we are still going through today is beginning to start, and that it has transformed, which has changed significantly and directly not only our way of life, not only the way of life of the citizens of this country, but that of the whole of the business and industrial fabric of this country, casting more and more negative or decreasing figures on the volumes of industrial production, on the volumes of goods to be transported, on the volumes of capacity or per capita income of the citizens in order to be able to dispose of their resources, their money, and to use it in one or other mode of transport. And, as I say, all this, this whole report was carried out in a context marked by the beginnings of a crisis that has affected our lives, but which also affects the development and future viability of the future project, or the high-speed train project. And yet, the reality is that since then nothing has changed in the absolute determination of this Government, of the Government of Gasteiz, to continue to support the high-speed train in the parameters defined before the start of the crisis, defined at the time of the great economic boom, when it seems that the money was reproduced by spores, when it seemed that there was no need to have a very high country planning, because, as all that was coming was positive, it was about making adjustments, in any case, so that growth would take place in one place or another, but never to stimulate further growth, or even to foresee economic decline contexts like the one we have experienced. Thus, the investment of the high-speed train against wind and tide has been sustained, and from our point of view, from the point of view of Euskal Herria Bildu, that investment is becoming increasingly aversion. This investment in public resources is generating more and more social aversion to a project that deprives all citizens of this country of more resources for other issues. Because we can also see how from 2010 to the present the weight of expenditure on the high-speed train, of investment in the high-speed train itself in the budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community, remains very much greater than the overall investment that the budgets of this Government allocate to another number of issues. I am not going to start here comparing how many schools could be improved, and I know that much of the parliamentarians in this House know this, because of the visits they make, what are the demands for improvement of many infrastructures absolutely necessary to sustain that evil state of well-being, or to be able to say that our sustainable human index is higher or as high as that of the Nordic countries. I am not going to compare how much better health, education or other basic pillars, such as income-guarantee income or social assistance, could be improved, with what has been allocated to VAD. But I cannot fail to mention that from 2010 to 2015 the volume, the real weight of the investment of the high-speed train, or the money that has been allocated to the high-speed train in the overall investment of the budget, has never been less than 50% of the total, never, having to leave the other remaining for the different investments, surely as much or more necessary as it is. Only in 2011 can we talk about 45.88 (yes, below 50%), but in 2010 69%, in 2012 and 2013 57%, in 2014 69%, in 2015 68%. So, we do have more and more, and modified upwards, a real idea of what it will cost to build it, but we still don't know how much it will cost to keep it. In a macro-infrastructure such as that of the high-speed route as important as it will cost us to know what will cost us to maintain it, especially when we see the reality of the neighbouring country, because unfortunately we are still part of that structure, when we know that in the Spanish State the high-speed lines are having to be subsidized or paid for with public money to throw statistics less harmful to the eyes of the citizens, in what has to do with the use of that transport, by the volume of passengers, and in what has to do with the transport of goods, which is nil. We pointed it out in the appearance and we say it again: it is null even in the line that is considered more feasible, like that of the Junquera. And in view of this reality, it seems to us that what should be done is to propose from now on a cost-benefit analysis; that citizens understand that the money they are deprived of is used for other things for a macro-infrastructure that is going to yield a number of benefits, but here all that is left for the imagination or for the desire, for the desire of those who invest that amount of money of all to satisfy the wishes of a few again. Because in the very report that I spoke of and which was the reason for the October 2015 appearance we were told that the pricing was more or less estimated, according to two parameters, A and B; that the transit of goods was estimated on the report that I pointed out earlier, which was 2008; that the times of the connection of capital were estimated on which they were initially said to be and which have already varied, as has been pointed out in this House at times, to increase the time of the journey between the capitals. Nor was connectivity taken into account, or was connectivity taken into account with Europe and the plateau (with the capital of Spain, if you prefer) which does not seem to be definitive today, much less possible in the coming years. In the face of this cluster of difficulties, or misconceptions that we would say, we would like to know what are the benefits that someone understands that they are going to bring this, and gross benefits, that they tell us in amount of money; that they signal the costs, because they are still producing overprices, and that they also show us the costs of exploitation. And we have to say that we care about ACS, Ferroval, Accion or Alsa being the same companies that now present themselves as a railway operator. It concerns us that some make great businesses, always at the expense of the public money, in construction and exploitation. Those who enjoy so much free market seem to have too great a habit of drinking from the public field. Because in this whole project, as in many others – this is not an exclusive issue of the high-speed train as it passes through the Basque Autonomous Community – we are witnessing a sad paradox of our times, and it turns out that the most fervent defenders of liberalism and the free market are the ones who benefit most from the money of all. Because Acciona, Ferrovial, ACS, the big companies of the Spanish state, those that push forums, that push platforms and that even push or want to push governments that defend the current neoliberal and capitalist model, are precisely those that are financed, those that are enriched with public money, with the money of everyone. If they had so much faith in the free market, if they had so much faith in liberalism, the normal thing – and I think that is understood by all citizens – the normal thing, the logical thing, the prudent thing would be that they sought their benefit in the private world, that they sought their benefit by resorting to their ability to generate illusion around their businesses, and not by generating elusion around public money to enrich their pockets. And this, with being worrying, because it is worrying in the construction phase, it becomes even more worrying, because these same companies (ACS, Ferrovial, Acciona), which also have a lot to do with Basque Y, are running no longer just to continue to get rich in construction, but to be able to fill up by exploding it. And so they are being converted and they are applying and positioning themselves as railway operators, in the face of the loss of monopoly or the loss of the unique character of operator that Renfe may have. That is the reality that we believe that they also have to know all the citizens, and we are surprised, we are extremely surprised, that in this context the lehendakari, I understand that on behalf of the whole Basque Government, asks us to do with all the present and future management of the high-speed train, knowing as we know, and so says FEDEA for example, that perhaps it can be understood as an association of part, that this corridor, the corridor of the north, will be the least profitable of all the corridors or of all the high-speed lines within the Spanish State. If we know what is going on in Madrid-Sevilla, not to mention the Mediterranean; if we know that they are having to be over-bonded with pricing aids, so that it can be used by more travellers and it can seem something more profitable than it really is; if we also carry with this reality, how much more public money will we have to spend to make more people travel in the TAV? We don't get the bills. But it's not just FEDEA. Brussels also points to the same issue. Brussels points out that the Community Executive accuses Spain of continuing with a model in which the large companies, which I mentioned a moment ago, have managed to privatise profits and socialise losses, despite certain positive changes in regulation. That is the reality that involves the whole economy in the Spanish State, and from which it seems that the high-speed plot could not and should not be abstracted. In the high speed plot, the Basque Y, according to the FEDEA report, neither the investment costs are recovered nor the operating costs are recovered. It is, therefore, a black hole that we will have to endure. The European Commission therefore recommends that cost-benefit analysis reports be made. And what strikes, what is really paradoxical, especially in the Basque Autonomous Community, where with so much speed and sometimes with a certain touch of realism we mark distances with what is being done in the Spanish State, is that neither do we worry about doing cost-benefit analysis reports. And that's really strange, especially when we take into account what has happened to us with other quiet infrastructures in this country, when we see what has happened with the Supersur, or with the Eibar-Donostia, or with the Artxanda tunnels. In all these infrastructures exactly the same thing has happened: there have been huge mismatches between the initial cost and the end. And the Basque Y won't be an exception either. And in all there has been too much mismatch between the estimated demand, which justified the execution of the project, and the actual demand, which finally uses the project. For this reason, and in order to avoid continuing to incisive and persist in the error, which we all pay for, and which deprives us all of more resources to improve the quality of life, we make the following proposal: that a cost-benefit analysis be made that considers the useful life of the infrastructure and studies from a monetary point of view also the impact on the well-being of Basque society, and that it be presented in this House in three months. I am convinced that we all want to be models when we manage public resources and spend public money. Let us also be effective in projecting substructures that are paid for all our money, so that they may be useful to us all. That's all. Thank you for your attention. Gracias.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari, counselors. EH Bildu proposes that we urge the Basque Government to draw up, through an independent research team, a cost-benefit analysis of Basque Y, and that this study be presented to this Parliament within three months. Go ahead, it doesn't seem like a crazy proposal to me, I won't vote against it. In any case, we prefer to look forward, and defend and vote on the UPyD amendment, for the reasons I am going to explain and with the aim that in the future there will be no repetition of mistakes made in the past. At this point in the party, I believe that it is evidence that in Spain as a whole an irresponsible production of clearly unnecessary infrastructures was carried out for years: high-speed lines without passengers, ghost stations, millionaire undergrounds, airports without planes, roads without vehicles, congress palaces without visitors, or pharaonic buildings without recognized function, all to the greatest glory of the political party in turn and its electoral challenges, the corrupt mayor or the local boss. As a result of this irresponsible course promoted by the main Spanish political parties, Spain was placed on the world map of waste and the spending of public money, unemployment, ridicule and corruption. In relation to high speed we can give some data. Spain will soon have 4,000 kilometers in high-speed lines, more than France, the United States or Germany. Only China surpasses him in the world. It is estimated that EUR 15 million has cost on average every kilometre of the network (this price rises considerably in Euskadi). Twenty-eight Spanish cities, mostly provincial capitals, have AVE service. The next to be added will be Burgos, Castellón and Granada. More than 10 billion is the debt carried by the Government of Spain for the works of the AVE. In 2017 it will add so many more. The Spanish high-speed network totaled 31 million passengers in 2015. It represents an increase of more than 5% over the previous year, but it is not enough. Only the route Madrid-Sevilla covers its operating costs. It is obvious that all public transport is deficient. Another thing is that they are socially necessary. And it is apparent that many of the works of which they have been carried out are neither, nor are, except that they are considered socially necessary to the electorally profitable, which sometimes, by the way, neither. Indeed, the Basque Y was designed within the planning of the railway infrastructures of Spain. We support the Basque Y and want the works to be completed in the most reasonable time possible, without this, as we have been saying, implying to stop meeting the most urgent needs of the citizens. In any case, we are convinced that, if the decision had to be made now, many things would be done differently. On the other hand, we cannot say that the construction of the Basque Y was not profusely debated in Euskadi. It was discussed, and the main political parties supported it at the time and continue to support it today. Initiated, we think it should be completed in the best possible way. Paralyzing it would entail higher costs to continue with it and finish it. It is, in any case, a question of not repeating the mistakes of the past, and that is why we are proposing the amendment which we are proposing and which we will be voting on. What we propose is that this Parliament urge the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to draw up and carry out an analysis of the cost-benefit and economic, financial, environmental and social viability of any public investment in infrastructure they intend to carry out, with compulsory public exposure to these studies and the criteria followed for their preparation, and with a public period of allegations, so that the need for such infrastructure must be reasoned and justified from an economic, political, social and environmental point of view as an indispensable condition for carrying it out. In other words, any relevant infrastructure work can be perfectly explained to the citizenry and given sufficient arguments to defend its implementation. I am sure that in this way we will not be able to solve the mistakes made in the past, but at least we will prevent others from being made in the future, and in this way we will make appropriate use of public resources. It is not a question of stopping works that are already under way; it is at least a question of not starting new works whose need is not fully demonstrated. This is what we basically advocate with our amendment. It is about making good use of public resources; it is about putting the real interests of citizens before the interests of political parties or certain companies; it is about investing rigorously, seriously and with all guarantees, prioritizing in any case the real needs of citizens, prioritizing in any case investment in education, health, dependence and truly productive investments. In productive investments that can also be enjoyed and used by the majority of citizens, and not just by a few. This is therefore the amendment which we have tabled and which we will vote on. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u5	Thank you, Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u6	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. At the week's meeting, right here, it was said, or at least I understood that when the subject of the Serantes was treated, if there was a slight relationship with today, the government began the projects and then demanded the reports "sobre la marcha" and that things are the result of improvisation. That's not true. And it's not true what we discussed and discussed on Thursday, and it's not true what we're discussing today. 'A state heights', as we say, the demand for an examination on the project of a high-speed train has little sense. The examinations and investigations which have been completed during the preceding stages have long been laid down on the table, and have often been discussed in this legislature. As with all important and important projects, or with almost all of them, opinions and attitudes are opposed. And that's usually the way it is and this time it is. But when all things have been so many years and so much pains to attain the end, it seems that setting up another stone on the road is neither reasonable nor just. Because of repeating things over and over, they don't come true. It is optimistic to examine and dispute of positions, but the application of certain methods, which we constantly and constantly recall, does not lead us anywhere, and it is really troubling. In this investment the consequences which it is already possible to produce economically and socially are thoroughly examined. I repeat, that the Department of Environmental and Regional Policy, and Government have repeatedly examined the benefits which this project will bring to the euscal society, from economy, from society, and from environment. It's been a terrible time and effort to get this project through. If all this work has been done and it is done because there are reasons, and it is not because, as it was stated last week, it is a caprice, or an improvisation. The opposition policy never leads us anywhere. We can talk today, tomorrow, and next month. We can go through the projects from top to bottom. Investigation, reports, whatever it is we can ask for, but the government clearly does. the development, economic development, and social development of our people. He knows where this policy has placed our people, and knows exactly where to place them now and in the future, and has hitherto proved it. The results of the contrary, unfortunately, are also known to us, and our society clearly does not want them. The benefits and social advantages of this project are shaken by some. Social policies are not just scholarships. Our current social system is complex and effective. Social politics, the modern, near, effective, and good public system, is to have a compatible, advance, and useful education system; it is to have a broad, accessible cultural offer, and to be useful; it is to guard the environment; it is to guarantee the quality of all generations, by a modern and pleasing city; it is to give up the future generation a preponderance, and to have modern and effective transports. A high-speed train is a way to get ahead of us. Expensive, too, who demand great employments. But necessary and effective, if we want it to go on. We can find very few public transport projects, which are ethomically compatible. This path is based on social progress and we can't stay behind. So far we have gone on, placing our land in Europe and the world. To make transport structures necessary to our people, they are determined by studying technicalability, economic income, and socially, deeply and at length. The procedures used in this case, and in this case, have been homologous with the projects of the sub-relations of the European Union. Cannot deny that transport request is vital. I mean, that time and service vary according to the economic and social development of the population which takes place. Transport, the whole system has a very important role in the economic development of Euskal Autonomic and the general development of society. The project's running. It's moving on. It's been a terrible job and it's becoming reality. When we say that to the project of the AHTA is to make an examination of the cost, we say that it is a proper Moment in its time, when AHT was designed, the data used by argument and reality has been revealed to us." Well, it's not a good time. As I have said, it is an obstacle to the course of the project to the end of this demand, and not to collect information of it. The goal is to make an out-of-time request. The instructions are given and already lifted. This project has often been discussed in this legislature, and investigations and investigations have been introduced. The benefits and damages have been examined. The object of the project has been correctly explained, why it is important to our member. The detailed and complete information has been given punctually by the state and development of the work. The chief physician replied, "A long and strong project takes years, and the demand of necessity changes." The absence of the essential media at each moment of history has, in general, given collapse to the lands. A great part of the process either flows under the earth or through the viducts, and thus some of the incests are diminished. The high-speed train will take part of today's planes and bus travel. The effects of nature are limited as much as possible. As the development of economics, companies, culture, services, and economy offers will be introduced and increased. Companies will be more efficient and more competitive, and the city of Euskal Autonomy will unite and approach. If our fellow-citizens are placed in Europe, we must shorten their distance from it. The high speed looks at intermodity for effective transport. Efficiency, development, proximity, and modification are the basis and axis of the project, always connected with endurance. Euskal Y -a is a project that encourages Eucharistic economics, which will create wealth, and a useful tool for structure and union of our lands. The link between France and State will increase 17 million inhabitants a year. This project strengthens internationality: Considering the demographic weight of the Aquitania, the territory of Pyrians, and the land of the Basque territory, many of the experts predict the effectiveness of the future. Euskal Y -a Euscal Autonomy will spread out in the three provinces of Erdi and the international railway will be used for the first time. To have a mixed system, i.e. to use the transportation of persons and merchandise, is a great advantage. This will assume that it reduces the routes from roads and autopists to the security and speed of traffic. The high-speed train project goes forward and is another way to deal with it. The goal of our partnership is to stay behind as we have been. There are reports, such as Adif's, a report for 2009. We need to talk about all the reports, not just the reports that support or interest us in order to cover our opinions and support our opinions. The money earmarked for this project is also unavailable. Let us therefore look at all the reports, and not just those that support a specific interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representing the Euskal Potion Group, Mrs Ruiz is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Matute, it is true that years ago, as you say in the justification of your proposal, some political parties representing many citizens made a strategic bet, as was the high-speed train project. A strategic bet you didn't make. Very legitimate, but in what we do not agree. They didn't do it, they rejected it frontally, but they couldn't stop it from succeeding, because you didn't represent the social and political majority of this country. Since then, rather than assuming it, what they have devoted themselves to vigorously is to harm the social consideration of this infrastructure, and by the way also to put all the obstacles that they have been able to put us more difficult to those who had made this strategic bet and we had a political and social majority to carry it forward. That you reject the high-speed train doesn't look bad to me. I don't share it, but it's an option. What seems wrong to me is that deliberately – and they are doing so a lot, and I see it every two by three – they are devoting themselves to pouring a picture of this infrastructure to their measure on Basque society. And I think this Parliament is not going to finance it. We shouldn't have. What is no longer so true – and it is a premise that you also take part in your initiative – is that there has been no economic and technical debate about the high-speed train. That'll be a joke, come on. I'm the one who would never have been so categorical in a justification, much less. On the contrary, I believe that we have debated a lot about this, both within and outside the institutions: it is now only in this legislature, which has not yet ended, in this one, that it is also not the one where the most has had to be discussed about high speed, since the project and the strategic bet is much earlier, one hundred initiatives. I don't know, compared to other topics, it doesn't seem like a smaller figure. So what have we done, waste time in this Parliament? Until you get away with it, as long as you debate this, what are we, wasting time? Mr Matute, among the latest initiatives, in addition to those proposed by your group, you have, at your request, a report on the economic impact of the new Basque railway network in Euskadi, and two appearances you have mentioned, on the economic and social profitability of the high-speed train, such as those of Professor Rus and Professor Hoyos. Do you really need to be more corroborated in your refusal and rejection of the high-speed train? Or do you consider that in any study there is any possibility and that you may be surprised by this study of independent experts, to whom you confer an extra authority...? I imagine, when he says independent... I hope he's professional, because independent, if you're professional... If not, here, when we all leave Parliament, none of us will be able to devote ourselves to anything, because we are all professionally biased. I imagine you're talking about professionals. Maybe some study surprises you and makes you reconsider your opinion about the VAD, and says, "Go! Well maybe I was wrong in some terms and maybe there's a studio that makes me...!". Come on, that's fiction politics. You have it very clearly, you have it rejected, you don't want it, and anything that isn't tailored to that thesis isn't worth it. He's not worth it! What you want is to charge yourself with reasons, and you think that this analysis would be one more to add to the inventory of your political-ideological effort to reject it, but with the aura that it is independent experts. It's accessory, it's subsidiary, you don't really want it to reconsider anything you no longer defend. I am sure that you would not need any study to defend how socially profitable all the money that the Catalan institutions governed by the nationalists in the consultation and the process have cost the Catalans. Or what? That money is super-rentable... come on, that one's really good there, and it wouldn't be better in schools, etc. Yeah, yeah, I'm talking to you because it's... I could also ask the PNV the same question, but I do it to you who is the mentor of the initiative. I therefore believe that urging the Basque Government to carry out a cost-benefit analysis at this stage is anachronistic. I don't say it's not interesting, eh!, and in fact, if the scientific and academic community did it, then I'd like to know it. But he didn't. I have reviewed my bibliography, and, with all the interesting things that it might be, I do not know why the scientific community is not particularly interested in this analysis. They do other things. Moreover, they have to constantly refer, in the bibliography – so I have made a simple review of this issue, a little bit so to walk around the house, not very rigorously, but let's go – to a study of the ninety-one that is the only one constantly quoted. I'm not saying, I'm saying, that it's not interesting, that I'd like to meet him, but it's just that we're in another phase, we're in another stage. The recent Standard & Poor's report, that hasn't mentioned it, that's skipped it. With everything that interests you the investigation, that hasn't mentioned it. He says stopping the Basque Y is more expensive than continuing the project. The debate you want to bring us back to, in this and in other institutions, is that it is already overtaken. We're in another one. We are in how high speed reaches cities, how we optimize intermodality, how we manage to recover urban spaces in the capitals, to know who pays for it, to see if we put it all to cleavage... We're on it, we're not on the other. I am surprised that in order to defend the GNP, I am talking about how obsolete the economic impact report that the Basque Y could have remains. So, I do not know what report you might find today that it is not obsolete in the medium and long term. That is why we are going to reject this initiative, for three reasons. Because what he really seeks is to undermine the social consideration of this high-speed infrastructure in Euskadi; that is his first objective. The second, because it's anachronistic, and it's very clear, let's go (this is like the "Tell me" of politics). And because you don't really need it, you don't need it, you don't need it. In any case, we have – I insist – no inconvenience in the fact that such a study exists, and I am sincerely surprised that it has not yet been done at university level. That seems paradoxical to me. At the legal level it is also not a mandatory analysis, neither in Spain nor in the Basque Country, nor for their respective governments, nor in the countries of the European Union. What I encourage you, Mr Matute, is that on those double days that you organize with experts, that you take advantage of your journey to appear in Parliament in the mornings and in events in Bildu in the afternoon, you encourage them to come to Parliament in the afternoon and tell us parliamentarians from their chairs or from their pulpits, from where they are, to do this study, to give it to you in one day. Change the order. That'd be good. The order of the factors would not alter the sum, only the budget. Well, Mr Matute, your speech sincerely seemed to me to be the umpteenth ideological argument against high speed in Euskadi, which we do not share and which is why we are going to reject your initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Basque Socialists, Mr. Elola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u10	Thank you, ma'am, at the congressman's table. Good day to all presidents, chiefs and congressmen. This time, we're here to talk about another proposal, like the EH meeting. I say to speak, because what he demands after all, as my predecessors have said, is a very subdued subject. It's very regeneration. I'm going to begin with the reason EH Collect brings in. And so it begins: In the project of a high-speed train known as Euskal Y, there has been no economic and technical discussions. That's what you say. We say, as others have said, that this is not true, and since the absolute truth is not so, nor is there any sign of it, the absolute truth, which is perhaps only yours, but is not true. We say this discussion is sterile, and I will explain why. The proposal comes at a time when labor is about to end, and therefore this proposition is not necessary to accept your proposal. In 1994 the European Council decided to penetrate the Madrill-Gastiz-Dax into the strategic project of a high-speed train. Look at him from time to time. And to build this infrastructure, finance, aided by European funds, belonged to the Ministry of Sustament. Because of the delays of construction, the EukMunk took over the Gipuean Road. Do you think Europe would finance a part of it without any other economic studio? Well, yes, and that's how you throw money away. That's how the others throw it. Not you, but you're all strict and careful, and then I'll tell you something. In the land of the Gipuz, which belongs to Eusko, the civil work will be finished for the end of 2016. Sociists feel so proud when Patxi López was president, and the translator was the chief physician of the Arriolas pushing this route. We feel so proud. You know how you feel about how we're fighting for each other. No competition, when we believe in a project, we push as many as we can, and with the budget support and all the resources that we can get. I'm saying that this thing goes to the Dreaming End of the World, and as far as Gasteiz and Bilbo's route goes, it's in the direction of the Ministry of Sustaff, and he's on his way too. In September 2015, you'll remember, from the Ministry of Sustament, that it would be over by 2019. The chief physician also mentioned it, even in the section of the commission, that he thought it might be possible to do it. We have our doubts whether or not this will end for 2019, but doubt is certain that this infrastructure is about to end. I keep saying, "For this project that some political parties made a strategic bet in time." Of course, and others, on the contrary, for different reasons, and one of them is the one who signs today's proposal. Mr Matute, being a Member of Parliament for Ezker Batua, you were defending the high-speed or high-speed train (let me finish, do not interrupt me; let me finish my speech, which, if not, the Madam President will then cut me off), and you proposed, instead of the Y, the U. His party then argued that it would be 20% cheaper than the Y. Do you want to tell me what economic studies you made those 20% cheaper calculations? Then, then, some studio would have, I say! What I don't understand is, when your party co-governed with the lehendakari Ibarretxe, with his partner the councillor Mr Madrazo, how your group did not at the time contribute the relevant socio-economic studies to endorse your alternative. Because you know that VAD, the Basque Y, has always been accompanied by studies of all kinds, and that it is supported in its mandatory environmental impact study, and corrective measures, where all kinds of conditions to the natural environment are detailed. It should also take into account the corrective measures that were taking place in the economy and in the urban landscape, and even in the sociological aspects of the affected population centres. You even look at the rearing, you see, of the European mink, and of the shoer plane, because that will also possibly worry you. Lehen aipatu duzu gaiak egin behar say the opakotasunik gabe. No opacity. You were in that government, you shared that government with your partner, and you are talking about opacity now, to us, to whom we support the high-speed train? Look at him, Mr. Matute. You know perfectly well that long before betting on this railway route there were numerous sociological studies on mobility, connectivity and transport, studies of all kinds, on which their former government companions were based, and the socialists as well. So how can you say in your written justification that no real cost-benefit study has been carried out? Do you think that the rest of us do not act carefully when we make the decision of a infrastructure? You're the only responsible ones? You have your own course in politics, your neighbors too, and each of you compares your history and your cares and your cares. I don't compare it, I'm relieved that our party acts carefully when it admits of a infrastructure, and that the studies and improvements that must be done before. And so, Mr. Matute, to do a proposition at first, when a infrastructure is decided, we must at first propose corrections, propose changes, in short, to make good use of public money. Now, you come here and make an obstacle to this. That's clear and your political decision is clean. It's always been and now you're still on the same side. Well, I didn't go in personally with you today, but I'm on your route. Don't make so many faces, man. Don't worry. I'm relaxed! Don't make such faces! You'll have a chance later! Yes, you're in the name of EHG, but you're also from the EH Union. Well, now Alternative, but first left Batu, the others are from the other side... Well, you'll get along, if you get along. And there's still a left-to-left patriot among you. Aipatu duzu, abiadura handiko tranari buruz, "antisocial infrastructures". Eta nik galdetzen says: Does it also refer to Leizaran's highway, which the Abertzale left fought with blood and fire, and today I am convinced that not one climbs through Azpiroz when going to Lekunberri or Pamplona? I'm convinced. Are you referring to the incinerator of Gipuzkoa, which today is a transfer of garbage trucks to Cantabria, with the cost increase that we assume to all Gipuzcoans on the issue of garbage, which has been their first target in Gipuzkoa? Is that the seriousness you're talking about? Is that the seriousness with which you intervene? Well, yes, that's Euskal Herria Bildu. And now he's attacking the rest of us who support anti-social infrastructure. Well, on the other hand, not to think that we're all getting worse here with your proposal, I'd like to explain that this proposition of yours is good news, because here's the subject, here's the subject, and here we're discussing whether or not we're on our side, whether or not we're on our side, whether we're on our side or not. If it had been so, the decision of this substructure had been decided from the first to the left, if the Abertist had taken this course as a whole, and had made an argument in his own places, he would have declared that Orion, Hernanin, the attack on the builders who had built these sub-structions would not have been possible, and that today even Ignatius Uria would have been still alive. In fact, we're here to take our decision and take our position, and we can clearly see your political game. The President's opinion is not accurate, interested, but it's not accurate, you talk about universality. And we meet with PNV, because it finally protects this infrastructure, and I said that, as you said, some parties decided to consent to this infrastructure, and that's what he says to himself, not in his own proper place. And also he asks if you'd like to take a walk in the right place and have that career in the next row. And on the other hand, he asks Europe to bring their reports, economic studios, and other studios here. That's what we agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Passing on the answers, Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u12	Mr. Elola, don't worry, because you haven't bothered me. If I've gesticulated it was because I found your reflection very interesting, highly interesting. It's too bad we haven't talked about the subject and the subject we were bringing in! But he has invited me to something that is always convenient to do, and in politics more: personal introspection. I promise you that I will do a personal introspection on what my position on the VAD was, but I know that Mr Lehendakari and I know that different members of the Basque Nationalist Party bench can tell you too what my personal position on the VAD was. But since we talk about personal introspection and since you decide not to talk about cost-benefit analysis and talk about other things, I also invite you to do personal introspection. Let him do it no longer twenty, thirty, forty years ago: make it even of the last political formation in which he was before being in the Socialist Party. You will see that what was being defended then and what is being defended now, without having to mention, without having to mention specious aspects of political today, has also changed in you. But I'm gonna give him a chance. The one that looks like you don't give to anyone, I'm going to give to you. Perhaps, if we get to know each other more, we will realize that perhaps the important thing is to enter into the political debate and not to lose ourselves with torturing demands, because that is what I thought his intervention seemed to me, I say it with respect, rather than to enter the very heart of the matter. You were talking about the Basque U. It is the only element, let us say, of political argumentation, in what has to do with this debate, which you have used. Yes, I did have the Basque U for an analysis... Not an analysis: it had a political report and an economic report, an economic report of social, economic and environmental profitability, made by university professors, many university professors. Some believe that even at some point they decided to support some of their political adventures. I highly recommend it. If you want, I'll give it to you later, but I won't waste any more time. I insist, I am not going to enter into that debate that you wanted to enter, about pasts, genealogical trees..., because I think it does not bring anything to this House and because I have nothing to hide, and because I do not know if everyone's trajectories are so exemplary and so upbuilding that we can recreate in them. The representative of the People's Party has commented on a number of issues that I think are important. One was Standard & Poor's. I have here a report from Standard & Poor's, February 14th, I think it was... yes, February 14th. The headline is "Standard & Poor's urges Spain to analyze the feasibility and profitability of building higher speed". But, of course, if you keep reading it it becomes even more interesting, because it says (in the penultimate paragraph) that it "recognizes that Spain already has a good endowment", but that "it is necessary to pay attention to sectors such as water-related endowments". He then said that infrastructure and infrastructure investment could not be conditioned to turn governments. I do not know, to me it seems to me that, of course, it is not the best presentation letter to land this request that we make for cost-benefit analysis. But, in any case, if the argument you bring is the argument that it says it's more expensive to stop it than to follow, then that's the same argument that your co-religionaries have used (now they're not very fashionable, it's true) in Valencia for Formula 1. Now, does it serve us? Well, no. Since I do not think we need the ways and means of the People's Party's policy in Valencia. And of course, he's also telling us about Renfe's report... Adif's report, I'm sorry. Man, it's important too, and it's also important the date you did it, and you've pointed it out. Well, it's not very current. But Adif is not a very independent institution either. It's obviously not. It is the most dependent of all, because it is the one who manages all the reality of high speed. But, of course, he also has an example in Catalonia, with two accused by chanchullos in the AVE, which I also don't know if it's the best source to drink in. And what can't be is one thing and the other. That is, it cannot be that we are presenting a hundred initiatives, and that we have never said anything about VAD. It cannot be that we have an almost obsessive fixation for making an ideological debate, and that we have not made an ideological debate. I believe that one of the two people did not understand what we have proposed, and, with all due respect, I think it was you, Mr Elola. And to conclude with the approach of the Basque Nationalist Party, with what it has come to put forward, it is clear that there are opinions in favour and against, I have never called it into question. Of course there are opinions for and against! What I'm saying is something very simple, and I think that all citizens understand it, and that's why I think the initiative that UPyD has presented also has quite common sense. I mean, when we're going to hit big infrastructure, it's absolutely necessary for us to know that everything that's going to cost us so much, and that's going to prevent us from being able to target it for other things, it's going to have some kind of profitability. But it's that, in the domestic, surely you, me and anyone else do. I mean, if I'm going to invest my money in something, to deprive myself of things in the present and in the short term, I'm going to want to know if that something I'm going to invest in is going to report something to me, or if, on the contrary, it's a lost bag. And that wasn't done with this play. It's not done. There is no analysis, there is no cost-benefit analysis report. That's all I'm saying! I have not said that there are no reports, I have not said that there are no people who have put themselves in favour or against. It's obvious. What I am saying is that there is no cost-benefit report or analysis, and that the European Commission is calling for this with increasing insistence on works of this kind. And more in a context like this, of crisis, when resources are increasingly scarce. That is, in short, what I am proposing. That there's been whim and improvisation? Of course not. That there's been irresponsibility? Of course I do. And that business becomes, or does it look like, ruinous? Also.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u13	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u14	Yes, thank you, President. I would like to remind all of you that you can vote on the UPyD amendment. Because the different groups have certainly put forward arguments to vote against the EH Bildu initiative, and they have obviously been arguments that they have defended and that we say we respect, but they are arguments that do not apply to the UPyD amendment, which I believe is an amendment that can be considered perfectly reasonable and common sense, as the representative of EH Bildu himself has proposed. I would therefore like you to explain to us in this second round the reasons why you will perhaps vote for the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party, and why you will reject the UPyD amendment. What they don't like about that UPyD amendment. Because Mr Elola has only said that this is an amendment that is not concrete. I believe that it is perfectly concrete and precisely what we want is specified: that before launching a large infrastructure in Euskadi or Spain, a rigorous cost-benefit analysis is carried out, as the most advanced countries in the world are doing and are carrying out, which, by the way, will all come, and will also arrive in Euskadi and Spain, that need to carry out a cost-benefit analysis to carry out any type of infrastructure. It will come, it will surely come, and here we will remember it. I say, it is a question of asking the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to draw up a cost-benefit and economic, financial, environmental and social feasibility analysis for any public investment in infrastructure they intend to carry out, so that it is perfectly demonstrated that this infrastructure is necessary and indeed seeks to meet the real needs of the citizens, which in the past you, all of you, have never done. And since you have not done so, what we ask is that in the future you start to do this kind of study. How have you acted in the rest of Spain? Have they acted correctly? Do you feel proud? Do you think that enough has been discussed in the whole of Spain in relation to the high-speed train? Do you think so, this, really? Do you think that no mistakes have been made, and no bulwarks have been made, which have caused a huge amount of public money to be spent? Do you think you've done well? Do you think there hasn't been a waste of public money? Do you think that the high-speed train, and how it has developed over all these years, responds to the real needs of citizens? Do you really think so? Have cost-benefit studies been carried out to carry out these infrastructures? Do they respond to the real needs of citizens? If you have done so so sadly wrong over so many years in all of Spain, it is normal for us not to trust you, and at least to put on the table the need to better analyse these works that you intend to carry out in the future. As simple as that. Indeed, there will be high-speed train detractors and there will be those who defend the high-speed train. What it is about is having all the studies on the table, all the information, to act with maximum transparency, and this is what you do not want to do. You don't want to put those studies on the table. You don't want those studies to be done. You do not want to explain what has been done over so many years in Spain. And what you want is, indeed, for the future to continue to be done in such an absolutely unfortunate way. Mr. Elola said: "Have we supported anti-social infrastructure?". If you belong to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the answer is that obviously you do. High-speed lines without passengers, ghost stations, million-dollar undergrounds, airports without planes, roads without vehicles, congress buildings without visitors, and a long etc. have been carried out. That is what you have done over the last few years in Spain. They have, therefore, done so badly. They have preferred to allocate public money to their own party interests, to the corrupt mayor on duty, rather than to allocate it to the real needs of citizens. And there is no one who questions this, because it has been shown that this is indeed the case. And you, in relation to EH Bildu's initiative, call it anachronistic, out of time, it's been introduced late, we're at another stage, it was said, we're at another stage... Finally, this debate has already been overtaken, okay, but what the UPyD amendment proposes is to look to the future, to present these cost-benefit studies from now on, so as not to repeat the mistakes of the past. And it certainly draws attention to the lack of self-criticism of all of you and the refusal to push forward those studies that, as I say, sooner or later... , because so many things are changing in Spain in recent months, or even in the last days, that will happen sooner or later. Because this is being done by all the developed countries of the world, and this is obviously what we are asking for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u15	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u16	If you are going to vote on the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party, I just want to remind you that this has already been approved in this Parliament on other occasions and does not contribute anything to the debate. The thing is, do we want to do things right from now on? Is it necessary to present a cost-benefit study to justify infrastructure projects involving millions of euros of public money? We think so. Certainly, for things that you do not understand, or perhaps you do understand, you do not want to carry out those studies. It is certainly regrettable, therefore, that your opposition, unless you finally choose to vote on the amendment of the whole of UPyD, which, as I say, is reasonable, coherent, and looks to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u17	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u18	Thank you, and good morning again. "Apuesta de futuro, beeficial, rentiabildad social, esis son las claves." You said there are conflicting attitudes, so do I. But if data be used for certain interests or benefits, this is manipulation, and it is not the whole truth to tell. So many facts that have been explained here are from all over the state and not from our community. And that's what you're talking about, "shodio de FEDEA" no analysis of the Y vasca. Son datos mucho más generales. I repeat, the projects which this government has made and which it brings forward, have been installed in Europe and settled in progress. It's been decided so far. We can't stop back there and we don't want to stay back. We're a pattern and we want to keep doing it. If we apply some of our policy, our transports would still be ass and oxen, and it is true that we do not want it. You guys keep putting on the burn-out obstacles, asking for stuff. But the project is going on and reality is becoming, and we're working on it. There has been continuous talk of figures, data and infrastructure of the State, which leads to confusion. And what UPyD asks is already collected for future projects, but we have to remember that this project, this almost reality, dates back many years. So, situations, requirements... everything's changing. What public transportation brings economic income? That's the key. If you can find an example, please explain. Increasing the economy, the tourist engine, the dynamism of economic and commercial relations..., the Basque Y will reduce the level of pollutant emissions by 70%, eliminate 6,500 vehicles per day, increase energy saving. These are also data derived from both exhaustive analyses that confirm that Basque Y is a step forward. So, I repeat again, we must analyse all the reports and all the studies, and not just tell what is right for us. I insist again: strategic bet. For all this, we have been presenting the total amendment, and I wish to thank Mr. Ella and the Socialist Party for the protection they will give us, and also for the protection of Madame Ruiz and of the Popular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. Ruiz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Maneiro, I have devoted my first speech to arguing why I was not going to support Bildu's initiative, and I have focused on that. Moreover, I thought I had the desire to overlook your amendment, but, as you like to be the child at the baptism and the bride at the wedding, and you have a certain parliamentary self-centeredness, and on top of that, I will tell you, of course, that your amendment, yes, more or less with that text, was debated in the Congress of Deputies not so long ago (I am sure Mr Erkoreka also remembers it), at the initiative of CiU, to do this which you are asking for. And I don't want to explain... the tone, not because I've read it, but the frogs and snakes that Mr. Martinez Gorriaran launched his co-religionaire to oppose that initiative! So I was surprised by the amendment, but I said, well, anyway, as it is not about this today and it is more about rejecting yours and I agree with what the PNV amendment proposes, I will overlook it. But you openly urge me to say something about your amendment... Well, I have to say it. I was going to save him, but since I'm on my way, I'm telling you. It's just, I don't know, it's just that he was his partner in the ranks, or former partner in the ranks! But it wasn't a quiet intervention, it was... Come on, I don't know if it's the style of Congress or what, but it caught my attention to the extent to which barbarities can be said to reject something that you put to us here now. Curious. Curious, that's all. So, it's not that I don't think he's frontally rejecting his amendment either, just that I like PNV, among other things because he hasn't discovered America in a glass of water either. He's saying things that are already assumed and internalized by everyone. In fact, when the initiative was presented I did not want to accept it, but neither did I think about how to amend it. I just don't accept it. But, well, what the PNV says is something that is already assumed by everyone and there is no problem in approving it, but its amendment specifically, in short, was not very right. At least it's not coherent. At least it's not coherent. And I believe, Mr Matute, that we have given him our arguments. I know you don't share them, but neither do I have anything ontologically against such a report, and I would encourage the scientific and university community to do so. And if that were the case, I would even ask for the appearance of someone to come and talk. But anachronistic will grant me that it is; that at this point we are already at another stage of the debate and it is to go back to a report that could have been made perhaps a long time before. The same approach, at the beginning of all the discussions and discussions, when everything was still a project less than embryonic, would perhaps have had more to go. But I was not in this Parliament, you were. And Mr. Elola has already reminded you that I did not intend to get involved in those proceedings either. And neither have I seen him put much interest in neutralizing me with Valencia and Catalonia. He's gone for pancakes. Specifically with Catalonia it has gone for the derivative. But, I insist, there are other issues, as I asked you, that you certainly do not question the social and economic profitability of the consultation and the process. And see if that money, which is very much, would not have been enough to spend it on other needs of Catalans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Basque Socialists, Mr. Elola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u22	Thank you again, Your Honor. First of all, I refer to Mr Gorka Maneiro from UPyD. You said that you do not understand why we do not support your proposal. I told you that the PNV concrete more, because the PNV one talks about a project that is already underway and is almost finished, then it is more complete. That's why we're going to support the PNV. And what I do not understand is why you, arguing what you have argued, do not support EH Bildu's proposal, because in the end you are talking about cost-benefit. No, what happens is that you put an alternative... Well, I'll approve with them! If they're on the line! That's all right! Nothing's gonna happen to him. Look, we support many proposals from them, from others and from others. That is what it is to play politics, to do politics, transversality, which is interesting, that we are all here for that. Mr Matute spoke of personal introspection, referring to me clearly, and of the political family tree. Look, I don't have a problem talking about my political family tree at all. I've spoken publicly many times. I know what I've been and what I am, I don't know what I'll be. Maybe you do, maybe you're still there for ten more years; I'm not, I'm convinced not. Well, then I have no problem. And perhaps, if you were to solve your problem (in your group I mean) as to your family tree, as to your past, we would speak in this forum in another way and we would speak on equal terms, which today does not happen. You have spoken that you supported the Basque U in your day, but withdrew. It was a high-speed train, supported by some members of the Basque university. Well studies... but, you see, studies there is support and against, in all proposals. And what is that, partiality, or impartiality? Because what you propose is to do an economic study by independent members. Well, I don't know if there are independents, but well, it's very difficult to be independent when you have a political stance. Well, here's a study they presented in committee recently, back in September, presented by a member of the UPV, Javier Fernández Macho. It referred to the economic impact of the new rail network. You disqualified him because he wasn't enough, because he wasn't talking about exactly what you were asking for. But this gentleman said – since he referred to him – on a personal level, "I believe that in our socio-economic environment it is a necessity, even a right, because I do not find many industrialized sites, areas as industrialized as Euskadi, where they lack the means of rail transport as we have here. I cannot have an opinion contrary to the construction of a new railway network." I wasn't talking about the Y, but it's the one we have. He was talking about the need, and it's the one we have. And, of course, I challenge you to present here the data, as you are against (we refer to some), that it is cheaper to destroy everything than to continue. We, we believe that at this moment the interesting thing is..., and we have to bet on the completion as soon as possible of this infrastructure, so that once built, once started its march, we have the benefits that correspond. It also speaks of a subject, which you have not spoken about (Mr. Macho, and we too), it speaks, among others, of the reduction of sinestrality. No one here has talked about that. That's important too! With this railway network, among other things, we are going to reduce the sinestrality, apart from other kinds of economic, environmental improvements... that we have talked about before all those. And, of course, those we bet on the public, it's usually not to have an economic benefit. It's to give a service to the citizens. The less losses he has the better, of course. Y luego ha ha hablado, hemos hablado de que un insistu, poitico. There's a lot of obstinacy in it! Last few days, last week, we talked about the Serantes tunnel. As long as you're against it, and you're against it, but while you're against it, while you're against it, while the dock of Bilbo, the port of Bilbo, which lies in the general system, goes from first to sixth, and if we don't give it a good solution, I don't know, we'll have to close it with what it's supposed to be. Even 15 days ago, when you opened the law of the Earth, you fought against it, you fought against it! And your teammate said, "hombre, your reason is that the social condition has changed." You have mentioned today, the construction of this railway railway, which was decided by a time, that we were in another social situation, but we are now at the present moment, and that we are going to end what we know today, and begin to work fast, so that this people, this people, and our people, and the citizens, may take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 70; the votes given, 72; the supporters 21; the contrary, 50; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u24	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conference, 70; 72; the supporters are 22; the contrary, 41; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u25	So he didn't accept it. Next and lastly, we vote for the total correction which the Eubertarian party has made. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting 70; 72; the supporters 50; the opponents are 21; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u26	So it's accepted. Third point in theme list: "The same proposition as the Socialists of the Euscals made by the Parliament, about Garogna's supposed reopening. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Rojo, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u27	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to you all. Indeed, the subject of Garoña is an issue that has been discussed a great deal in recent years and also in this legislature. First of all it focused on the reopening or not of the nuclear power plant, a few months ago we discussed whether or not to put a nuclear cemetery after the nuclear power plant was closed, and what brings us here today is the last plenary of the Nuclear Security Council, held on 20 January. Therefore, today we bring back to this rostrum a concern of the Alaves, but also of the Basques, and we want to think that this is the last time we will have to bring it, because it is possible that on the 5th there will be a government of Spain that will stop forgetting the social cry and that will apply the common sense, the closure of the plants of more than forty years, as is the case with the central of Santa Maria de Garoña. Today, I'm sure someone who listens to us may think that we're going to bring back a repeated subject to satiety in this House. It is true, we have repeated it many times, and it is a repeated matter, and we have repeatedly called for the same thing, and repeatedly the People's Party government has covered its ears. First a full-fledged People's Party government, and now a functioning People's Party. But this time, moreover, the Rajoy government has used the back door, its administrative powers, to reopen what its predecessor stopped. And whoever we discuss here may seem useless, may seem like a simple toast to the sun, you have to tell him that every time this House has raised its voice it has done so by the hand of the society it represents, and on every occasion it has helped to set foot on the wall against arbitrary decisions that hide hidden interests. Because this Government of Spain still in office, and about to end its black phase, has wanted to shield itself in technical reports of the Nuclear Security Council to protect what is a clear political will: to reopen Garoña, give her twenty more years of life, even though it is an old and obsolete facility, without security guarantees. The decision is political, not technical. Because we can think anything about the Nuclear Security Council, and we share the idea of those who believe that this body, like others, should cease to be subject to political party directives, fully agree, but we are not here to discuss the last report of the Nuclear Security Council. We are not going to fall into the same thing as we criticize, in which we are the parties that determine what this council should or should not approve. What we come to discuss is what the parties say, what the People's Party has decided. Because, although the Security Council says that it can be opened, the political majority will of this House, of Basque society and of Alavesa society, and now also of the majority of the Congress of Deputies, is to put an end to the artificial prolongation of this installation and start to lay the foundations on clean and safe energy production formulas. As I say, it is a political position and not a technical position. So it will not be necessary to repeat what we have already said on other occasions: that Garoña is not essential for electricity supply, that its operation only has an economic interest for those who drive the power plant, and that we do not want a nuclear cemetery there. We do not need to repeat it, because, no matter how much we urge the Rajoy government, it doesn't matter. The bad news for that Government is that it no longer has time to meet its last threat, referring to the facilities in Garoña. Your time's up. The plenary of the Nuclear Security Council itself has delayed the issue of the decision, and if there is a new executive on 5 March, that day begins the final countdown of the power plant. But, in case, in case we could not celebrate that end that day, we have to put all the cautions: that the Basque Government does not lower its guard, that it is alert to any movement that it detects in the Executive in office against what we are going to say again, and that it exercises all the actions that are in its hand, without exception, to prevent the PP from leaving a poisoned inheritance. We do not want the Basque Government to step down, nor do we want all parties that share the same objective. It is legitimate to defend the reopening of Garoña, it is legitimate to bet on nuclear energy instead of other less aggressive alternatives, because everything that is defended by the word can be legitimate. Who defends what he says, and who does not, is consistent. On the part of the Basque Socialists we are going to maintain the same position in Euskadi and in the Congress of Deputies, where we have already presented a parliamentary initiative. Parliamentarians in Vitoria and Members in Madrid defend and have defended the same thing. I am convinced that the representatives of EH Bildu and also those of the Basque Nationalist Party will do the same. I have doubts about what those of the People's Party are going to do, who here say one thing and in Congress or in the Council of Ministers say other things, even though Basques are talking about the subject. This today is not to get along with anyone, it is not to not have to hide when the citizens ask in the street again this closure, in new mobilizations that we also call on to participate. It is not to look good or to prepare for any forthcoming election campaign, because the socialists are on another stage. We are not there; we are seeing whether it is possible to start working with a new government and, among other things, the closure of Garoña is one of the first decisions. That is why we continue to maintain that from day 5 the countdown begins. We would like the compromise amendment that we have signed by the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu and the Socialist Party to be endorsed by the rest of the parliamentary groups, because we have tried, in those six points, to collect all the requests that, through the amendments to the whole, all the parliamentary groups proposed. In fact, there was one point that had not been included and we have included it in the end, in order to try to have once again, although we do not know what will be defended in Madrid, the unanimity of all the parliamentary groups against the forthcoming opening of Garoña, which is what the People's Party wants to do. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u28	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Passing the teams who are running the corrections, in the Euskal popular, Mr Barrio, everyone has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u29	Thank you, President. Egun on, lehendakari, counselor. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. And I have to congratulate Mrs Red for her originality and for the innovation in making parliamentary initiatives in this House. In the same year, parliamentary initiatives have been adopted along the same lines as the current one. For the umpteenth time, in the same keys, we discussed today about Santa María de Garoña as a nuclear product company. Twenty-one debates said she... twenty-two debates already on this issue. That is to say, I believe that the debate on the issue is no longer proceeding. Parliament has already expressed itself in relation to what? Well, with the non-continuity of the plant. It has already entrusted the Basque Government with its positions or duties in the case of a decision to reopen, it has already decided to take the steps before the European Union, it has also decided to challenge and ask for any decision to reopen, also to integrate, to promote expert study commissions, to support concentrations... Well, that's already been done. This, Mrs Red, is decided by this House. We come back again, we come back again... We have already voted twice in favour of this closure, in the parliamentary statements of 5 June 2014 and 19 February 2015. There they are, and that's our position. We also basically agreed on 19 November. You didn't let us vote for points and, well, then... But in any case, our positioning is already there. And you said that we, the People's Group, can say one thing here and another... I don't know, but you say one thing and you did another. That's the truth, that's what we have to say. You say one thing and you did another. You extended the life of the Santa Maria de Garoña nuclear power plant when you could have closed it. And now we are, as a result of that masterful decision of the Socialist Government, now we are with those repeated and constant approaches of your group on this issue. Well, briefly, the compromise amendment says nothing new. Here is the first point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to respect the pronouncements of the majority of Basque society, and particularly Alavesa, contrary to the reopening of the nuclear power plant of Santa María de Garoña, and demands the definitive closure of it". We have adopted it in previous statements, it is already adopted in many previous statements! "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to comply in its entirety with the resolution agreed on 19 February 2015...". It is also approved in this House by the parliamentary majority, of course broad, in relation to the nuclear warehouse! Number 3 ("The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain in office not to take any administrative or political decisions...") is already approved! Government in office or not in office, but that is approved by this Parliament. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to immediately transfer the opinion of this House to the new executive...", which is the same. Even if it is the Basque Government or Parliament itself that urges it, that is not new in the parliamentary debate, that is already approved. It's approved several times too! Fifth. "The Basque Parliament is in agreement with the depoliticization of the Nuclear Security Council..." Very interesting, very interesting debate, which can be studied where appropriate, but you did not raise it, when the Nuclear Security Council was studied and formed, that debate. Finally, that can be studied, nor is it a novel issue in relation to what you are asking for. And "The Basque Parliament adheres to the mobilizations..." in connection with the final closure. We have already seen that it has been approved other times, we have all approved it in this House, in other chambers, we have even promoted it some when we had municipal management responsibilities, such as Mayor Maroto. In that sense, I believe, Mrs Red, that we are in a repeated debate. We have already addressed these issues. Time must be given to discuss other issues. You had another much more interesting initiative than this on this issue, and it would not have been wrong if you had postponed it to see what the political landscape would have been like after these coming weeks, on this issue, because in relation to the present, Mrs Red, we had already approved it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u30	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u31	Yes, thank you, President. It has already been said that this is a matter that has been discussed in this Parliament in recent years on countless occasions. The last time it was discussed was last November 19th. And I'm not saying that discussing the same thing is not justified. I say that in my case at least I will say basically the same thing I have said in other debates, because there is not too much news on the issue. Moreover, as Mrs Red said three months ago, the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant is a classic of this Parliament, and above all it is a classic when the electoral campaigns are near. That is what Mrs Red said three months ago, which gives the impression that Mrs Red has relevant information regarding an imminent call for general elections, because this is indeed a matter which, above all, reappears when the election campaigns are near. In any case, I say that we will say basically the same thing. On this occasion, this initiative of the Socialist Group is presented as a result of the meeting held on 20 January last by the plenary of the Nuclear Security Council, which served to postpone to a forthcoming meeting, with a date still to be finalized, its decision on the future of Garoña, recalling that this body continues to carry out its regular work to assess and analyse all matters within its competence, apart from the political situation, in accordance with its status as a regulatory body for nuclear safety and radiation protection and independent of the Government. In its justification, the Socialist Group reminds us of the position of the party, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party: neither to reopen the power station nor to serve as a nuclear warehouse in the future. It is a position, as the Socialist Group reminds us and we obviously recognise, majority in this Basque Parliament, and, in view of the positions of the various political parties represented in the Congress of Deputies, majority also in the Spanish Parliament. This being the case, and if all of them are consistent and maintain their electoral programmes, it is to be assumed that this majority opinion will finally prevent the reopening of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant. If this is finally the case, we will accept that decision with sport. Having said that, accepting the political position of the majority cannot prevent minority groups from setting out our position on the issue, and in this sense UPyD maintains the same ideas which it has advocated in recent times and which are also reflected in this whole amendment. What we propose is to urge the Government of Spain to maintain all the security requirements and, therefore, to demand from Nuclenor all the necessary investments so that Garoña could, if necessary, restart its activity, respecting and enforcing in any case all European security regulations, all technical requirements and all international requirements. I think that we are also very clear here: if we have to reopen Garoña, we have to reopen by absolutely fulfilling all the security requirements and all the Spanish and European regulations. And we also propose, as a novelty, in our amendment, to urge political parties represented in the Congress of Deputies to promote the partisan decolonization of the main institutions of the State, which should be independent of political parties. And in particular the depoliticization of the Nuclear Security Council, which has finally been included in that compromise amendment. With regard to the debate on nuclear energy (because, of course, we are also discussing nuclear energy today), we think, like Counsellor Tapia, that nuclear energy plays an important role in the current energy mix, and that it is therefore still necessary. We think that a system with a lot of renewable energy needs a guaranteed base power that allows to compensate for the price and power upsurges of renewables, also the peaks and valleys of demand, or the failures of other sources. And that's where nuclear power plays its part. That is why we argue that Garoña, meeting all the required requirements and all the necessary security conditions, could continue to function. On the other hand, nuclear energy has, like any source of energy, positive and negative aspects. Positive aspects of nuclear energy, which also has them: it is a cheap energy, or cheaper than others; it is a clean energy, or cleaner than others; it is an energy source that does not emit greenhouse gases, such as renewables; it is an energy source that does not contribute significantly to climate change, or that contributes less than other energy sources. These are the positive aspects of nuclear energy. It also has, of course, negative aspects: it is an energy that is generally poorly seen by citizens; it is an energy that is in question, as a result of social sensitivity to it; it is an energy that has its risks when nuclear power plants do not meet all the necessary technical requirements; and it is an energy that produces waste that is complex and difficult to store. Therefore, like all energy sources, nuclear energy also has positive and negative aspects to put on the table and on which much more in-depth discussion is needed than is usually done. That is why we have been arguing that the Garoña nuclear power plant, rigorously meeting all the requirements and all the safety conditions that are necessary, could continue to function; and that it obviously cannot continue to function, that it must be impossible to reopen, if it does not meet all the requirements. As simple as this. I think it's something we can also share a majority. On the other hand, there are other aspects that need to be taken into account. Garoña is a power station that has been standing for three years; it is a power station that has been standing for three years for economic reasons, or for technical reasons. It's a nuclear power plant that's over 40 years old. It is a plant that has recently had certain technical problems that need to be solved (it did not stop for technical problems, but for economic reasons, but it has had certain technical problems that obviously need to be solved). It is a plant whose renovation would bring it to a useful life well beyond forty years. And it is a power station whose maintenance or re-launch certainly causes social rejection and uncertainty in a significant part of society, as well as institutional opposition. In addition to all this, during the last few years the Spanish Government has acted with opacity and lack of transparency, and it came at the time to create ad hoc regulations for Garoña, which only made anti-nuclear spirits angry and prevented, in turn, a calm and reasoned debate on the issue. All this being so, we must demand that we be demanding in relation to the decisions to be taken by the Government of Spain. We must be vigilant in demanding that all decisions be made with maximum transparency, and that society as a whole, as well as political parties, receive all the information that is required. I believe that we can also share this with a majority of the groups in this House. Since we know how the Spanish Government has acted on this issue, and especially in recent years, it is reasonable that the Basque political parties want to be demanding and we are vigilant about the decisions that are being taken. Moreover, I say, we maintain our amendment in its entirety: to urge the Spanish Government to maintain all safety requirements; to ensure that all European safety regulations, all technical requirements and all international requirements are respected, before deciding on the reopening of the Garoña nuclear power plant, and if it does not comply with all those requirements rigorously, which will definitely be closed. This is what we stand for. And we also raise decolonization, the depoliticization of the Nuclear Security Council, something we have finally managed to get the political parties present here to include in that compromise amendment. In fact, it is the only relevant novelty of that compromise amendment that you have signed, Mrs Red. The only relevant novelty, the best thing that is reflected in that compromise amendment, is point 5. It is the only novelty, the only change, because the rest has already been approved. We are pleased that the Socialist Party and the People's Party finally recognize the need to decolonize, depoliticize the main institutions of the State, and also the Nuclear Security Council. A few months ago in this very House I was called anti-political for defending these kinds of issues. Well, now the Socialist Party includes in its compromise amendment the decolonization of the Nuclear Security Council. That is why I would ask for the vote on points, and I would obviously vote in favour of that fifth point. The rest do not, because I do not share them, I do not share them, or at least I do not fully share them. Finally, I believe that the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group will speak. I want to say before your speech, for that of encouraging the debate a little bit, which I basically share what the Basque Nationalist Party is going to say about today's issue: nuclear energy is needed today, and nuclear power plants that do not meet all the technical requirements must be closed down. I think we can share this. I think the Councilwoman put it this way at the moment, I think the Basque Government is also putting it this way, and I think that this is something we can share with the Basque Nationalist Party: nuclear power is needed today, and all nuclear power plants that do not meet the minimum safety requirements have to be permanently shut down. I think it's something perfectly reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Before you continue, say the fourth dot has been abandoned for another reason. Now, the representative of the EH Collect Group has the word. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u33	jaunak: I'm sorry about Mr.Maneiro, but the one I was touching right now was me. We must admit that this proposition, which has come to us today, does not contribute too much. It doesn't contribute to the final close or activity of Garoña, because it's already said everything. Beyond major speeches, we and we identify the scenario as follows: the PP left before the elections tied and well tied, as advanced students who are of this practice, in the governing body of the Nuclear Security Council, the majority necessary to continue the activity of the central. The evidence that the PP wants and will always want to keep Garoña open, although here in Gasteiz and Araba say otherwise, is evident, and was demonstrated a few days ago in the Spanish Congress. So nothing new under the sun: here is one thing, but when you vote where you have to vote the representatives of the Basque People's Party in Madrid vote what the party and the companies send them. The PSOE, aspirant to the Government, has reached an agreement with Citizens for the definitive closure of Garoña. The problem that comes to the PSOE is that its new partner, Citizens, showing the role that is called to interpret as vassal of large companies, has nothing clear about the subject. I read statements from his spokesmen recently: "The most logical thing would be not to reopen Garoña by criteria of safety, economics and social sensitivity, but we will not be dogmatic, and we will wait for the CSN's opinion" (great opinion), and continued: "... and we will analyze other associated factors". This said David López, who is the coordinator they have on energy. On 1 February, the new Spanish ultracentrism did not meet with Greenpeace, as you all know, as did the People's Party. And to conclude, I must remind you that Citizens are not defined as an anti-nuclear party. So it will all depend on whether Sanchez is finally appointed president and on the duration of the next legislature, which is called to be quite brief. Even so, it is a source of joy – contained, at least – and it is time to congratulate once again the citizens of Alaves for their anti-nuclear commitment, and because thanks to their struggle at last it seems that Garoña can be definitively closed. Now we have the issue of the nuclear warehouse. EAJ, on his side, had a clear commission from this Chamber, and when we asked him by the order of this commission, he told us in a sort of arrogant tone that he had no intention of carrying out his commission. It was an out-of-the-way answer, if we think it's from an official institution. Lets hablo de interponer un recurso contra almae nucle que se planateba abriren Garoña. In the end, the PNV passes a bit like the PP, saving all distances. The energy companies owning the plant have a lot to say, and better not to be angry with them. So, political statements? No problem. Concrete facts? That's it, another day. However, the General Assembly of the Arabs propose that they participate in the institutional ceremony which they have organized for March 19. So we'll say again that people are sick of Garoña and they don't want nuclear Plants. And that's how far we've come. Once again, a period of some illusion could be opened. We have lived many since 2012, but these moments have always been accompanied by their cold water jars. We do not know whether a possible re-centralizing and moderate centre government will be able to comply with this agreement, although we can only demand from here that, whoever governs, Garoña closes already and forever (we know that with the People's Party that would be impossible), separate the interests of energy companies, and take precedence over the interests and security of the citizenry. Finally, I'd like to remember that if Garoña closes, it won't be any merit of imaginary government, if Garoña doesn't open the gates again, it'll be due to the people's struggle. El cicer de la centrali no sera gracias a Nungún gobierno de turno en Madrid, sino a lucha de déadas de la Ciudadía. This is not a technical debate; it is a purely political debate. Whether it closes or not, it is in our hands, and especially in yours, who tell us that you paint so much and in such esteem have you in that neighboring country called Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u34	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: President, chief physician, good morning. "Eusko Legebiltzarrak Garoñako zentral nuklerraren behin betiko itxiera eskatzen of the age jardunean ari den egungo Espainiako Gobernua awardzen of the zentralan berrirekiera erraztuk lukeen erabakirik ez hartzera". This is the text of the original PNV amendment to the Socialist proposal, and it says telegraphically that the Basque Parliament demands the definitive closure of the facilities of the Garoña nuclear power plant and urges the current Government of Spain not to take any decision to facilitate such reopening. We already know that this is an issue, as has been discussed many times in this legislature (if I had to make a list of the main issues, I would be on the podium and I would take the first, second or third place), but I think it is necessary, contrary to what Mr Barrio said, it is necessary to continue talking about Garoña. Why? By obscurantism. We have had to suffer the obscurantism of the PP government in Madrid, the obscurantism of the Ministry of Industry in Madrid, the obscurantism of the private company that exploits Garoña, and also the obscurantism of the Nuclear Security Council. And in the face of this obscurantism there is no alternative but to repeat, even every four months (three times a year), the Garoña affair in this Parliament. It seems that they do not pay much attention to our resolutions, and the best example is that in November, barely four months ago, we were talking about the possibility of a temporary waste warehouse in Garoña. Of course, we said no, that warehouse was condemned, and yet it has been four months and we still do not know whether that warehouse was to store current waste from Garoña, whether it was to store future waste, in a hypothetical entry into operation from Garoña, or whether it could also be, with the dismantlings that now exist with the nuclear cemetery, a warehouse to use it for other types of nuclear waste from other power stations. We know absolutely nothing, with which, Mr Barrio, in the face of this obscurantism we only have the remedy of, even if it is a little heavy, every four months returning to the burden. I wanted to emphasize the safety of the close to 300,000 inhabitants, if we consider the people living in Vitoria-Gasteiz, who could obviously suffer a hypothetical nuclear accident in Garoña. And first of all, I want to remind you of one thing: we are talking about nuclear technology, which is the only technology that has been invented by the human being who has rebelled against him. In other words, the human being has invented techniques, apparatuses, industries, and all of them moderately controllable in any case. If in Garoña there was a thermal plant, a hydroelectric plant, even a chemical plant, we would not be talking about that, because, more or less, caught in a possible accident of one of those industries, we would know what the result would be, but with nuclear energy we have no idea. For this the examples of always. In Chernobyl there was a technical failure or a human failure, and there was a nuclear accident, and the Russian engineers had no better idea, brighter idea than what is always done when you don't know what happens, that is, to throw meters and cubic meters of reinforced concrete into a nuclear sarcophagus so that the nuclear generator and the waste would stay there. Years later the same happened in Fukushima, and the Japanese engineers repeated the brilliant idea of not knowing what to do and in the end buried everything buried, but without knowing how many decades it was going to have to be buried, or without knowing what future damage that could cause. That's like when we're on the beach, and when a kid poops, then what's to be done? Then make a hole with your foot and cover it with sand. When human science covers an accident it means that it recognizes that it has no wisdom, no remedy to do so. I don't think it takes much imagination to imagine what could happen, seeing what we saw in Chernobyl or Fukushima, if we had it 30 kilometers straight from Vitoria-Gasteiz. When we talk about the Garoña issue, at least the nationalists do it mainly by thinking not of whether or not nuclear energy is, but of the nuclear energy produced by a power plant that is now forty years old and that is completely old and amortized, and, consequently, by the security, or, rather, the insecurity of the people living around it. It should be remembered that the Garoña nuclear reactor is of the Westinghouse brand, and the Westinghouse brand when it was manufactured gave it a useful life of forty years, which has already fulfilled. Now they seem to want to extend it by 40% more. Then, one should ask who can favor this hypothetical reopening of Garoña. We know that electricity has not been increased because Garoña has closed down. We know that if Garoña goes into operation, the electricity won't go down. We also know that the benefits of Endesa and Iberdrola have also not suffered any spectacular decline because Garoña does not work. And we also know that Garoña contributed 1% of its capacity to the Spanish electricity system, that 1% that nobody has obviously missed. That is, that we have been without Garoña for three years, and from an energy and economic point of view it seems that nothing else has happened. In other words, the electrical system is capable of operating without Garoña and, of course, it can generate other electric alternatives to the operation of this nuclear power plant. The question is who would be interested in the reopening of Garoña. We have to conclude that perhaps the PP government, in order to demonstrate, when it had an absolute majority, its clumsiness in saying "I want to open it and open it", and secondly to the private company that exploits it. But I wanted to remember that in a world perhaps a little more moral or more ethical than what we currently have, the benefit of a private industrial enterprise cannot be trusted at the risk of people. That is, if there are 300,000 shareholders from Iberdrola and Endesa who could see a few centimes less dividend at the end of the year, which has also not happened, there are also 300,000 people living around Garoña in the other scale dish and, of course, have their safety conditioned to a possible accident. Accident, of course, is becoming more and more possible as time passes and as the plant ages. A nuclear power plant cannot be retreaded. We can retread a tire, we can patch a steel factory, but you can't walk with temporary measures for a reactor that was designed for forty years. You can't say, by the art of birlibirloque, "I invest four pesetas, I plug the cracks, and they're going to be 15 years producing more electricity." We have to think about the base, which is what we started by saying, and we have to think about the safety of the close to 300,000 people we live around Garoña. I insist, we too here, in the Basque Parliament and in Vitoria-Gasteiz. And I believe that with this argument, that of the safety of a fully amortized nuclear power plant, there is no other argument, neither economic nor political, nor much less energy, that can be sustained. We only advocate the closure of Garoña because it is amortized, because forty years are enough, and because if it were launched it would obviously seriously affect the safety of all the people living around it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Rojo doesn't have to speak. Mr. Barrio of the Popula team? He mustn't speak. Mists? Not even. Mr. Lopez de Munai? Not even. (stopping) Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the EH Collectors and the media that signed Eucators. No points requested. Is there a problem? Is there a problem? Dots? No. Okay. Then we'll vote one, two, three, four, and six, and then the fifth. [[Berber]] No, no, no, no permission. Okay, so we'll vote for the entire half-path correction, okay? We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 72; in favour of 71; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u36	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Pune the other bill made by the legislatures, concerning the departure of the steps to match children's births and adoption permissions. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the contractor, the New House, the Representative of the EH Collectors, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u37	Thank you, Chief, and good morning to all. In Iceland, in 2012, the economic crisis was completely complete, and they had the same motherhood and fatherly permissions that each parent might have divided between three months' leave and three other parents. Now we're going to the model to match parent permissions in order that each of us has six months. In Norway, without a chance to pass the days of permission to 14 weeks in 2012 without being able to pass the past to the other parent, i.e., the unreproachable permissions. In Sweden, my parents are entitled to 480 days, 16 months. But the days of permissions can be passed from one parent to another. The result is that most men have passed their permits to women. In the Spanish state, in 2016, that is to say, at the present day, the paternal leave of motherhood and two weeks of age, of motherhood. By order of the law of equality of 2007, the two weeks were to last in 2011, but Madrid delayed this extension three times in the excuse of economic crisis. The workers of the Public Administration here have an 18 week's leave of motherhood and a fatherly license for 28 days. Compared to the northern countries in Europe, this system of authorization is short. It's very short. But above all, it strengthens traditional roles between women and men. From the moment when children are born, the chief care and care of keeping children is laid upon women, and men are foreseen, and they are urged to invade the world and the public domain as soon as possible. Women to watch, men to work. The patriarchal logic. It is also a disseminator's way of naming: maternal permits and paternity permits. We know there's a lot of family types. So in a family composed of two women, one of them must use a fatherly license, and in a family composed of two men, one of them must use a motherly leave. Hence we propose to speak of parental consents, because it is neutral in regard to sex, or else to speak of births and adoptions. In short, what we want is more Iceland and less Madrid. Collecting thinks parents have to match their parents' permits and they need six months of duration. I mean, each person being a parent must have six months of permission to take care of the children. One because the care of women is not only the care of children, but two, because men too must interfere in the custody of children, and three, because public policies, which give precedence to the care of the person, must be made. The permissions should be equalized by two different modes of influence. First of all, in the custody of children, to increase the human complication. And, on the other hand, it would help to eliminate a kind of woman's discrimination in the trade. For many of the companies see the collective population of women as a collective danger, because they know that if they are children, they will have a longer license than men, and that afterwards, for the care of children, they will often have to employ their labours and their dependences. And, on the other hand, they predict to men the complete disconsociability in all their stages. So we think the presence of women and men or absence would be useful to us. By this action which we now exhibit, we propose to begin the way to attain this desirable goal. We're asking him to start a parent license match in a group of his subordinates or organizations to match parent permissions in progressively. For example, fatherly leaves two weeks a year. Then, considering the results, what we propose is that reform may gradually become more general. They did something similar in Iceland, the parents' licenses that matched Reykjavik's council, first and then after, the reform spread to the whole Iceland. It must be the same as the parents' resolutions, they must be incorrigible, and must be paid at a hundred per cent. Why is that transcript? Because experience shows that in cases where it is possible, one parent will pass the other's due days, that most men, the greater part of the stadia, pass their leave days to women, and so it does not succeed in answering, and the traditional distribution of characters between women and men remains in some degree strengthened. But there must be a fourth mark, a good-natured one. Which means that the two parents don't have to take their leave at the same time, and that it's possible, if you like, to use the permission one after the other for a long time to take care of the child. In our initiative, we suggest that we do a study with the results, in three months' time, in order to determine what department or organization this pilot project would be made, to determine which kind of calendar it would apply, that is, what degree of progress it would apply, and also what investment it would require to determine, in the future year's budgets budgets, to predict this division and put the project in motion. And, on the other hand, we agree with what PNV reports in its correction. All this must be done according to the frame of collective negotiation and the delegation of unions. We agree with this and believe that all this process must be discussed and arranged with the union representative. On the other hand, we know that Madrid doesn't admit we have a right to determine the nature of these permits, Madrid is now a limit and is far from Iceland. But if this way is to be done, we have a choice for it, if there is any political will for it. It's possible that a pilot project will start off in a group or organization under fun, go in progressive ways to match the permissions, and then check the results to expand this reform. It's not just a chance, but it's a duty to say that the 35th article of the law of equality is: "The Ministry of the People of Euscala..." ) The men will take care of their homekeeping people, and they'll force their responsibilities to take care of them." What public policies have you ever made to promote men's responses in the care-making arts? It's time to start making effective public policies in this direction. It is true that the standard of parenting permissions is not the solution of all problems. That's right. And that it is necessary to form a greater measure in the same direction. But that doesn't make any difference to this proposal, at least from our point of view. It is therefore necessary to make public politicians, but in a new direction. For to-day is an unjust watch system, which is not tolerable, and does not answer the wants of men. The carefulness of children is founded, in some great measure, on the privileges of motherhood, and on the beauties which are called for colication, especially on the reduction of industry, and on the receiving dependence, and these kinds of politics are still left to the care of women. In fact, they mostly encourage women to visit at moments when they demand an intensive custody, and be partial to it. But this is one of the consequences of these policies for the settlement. And, on the other hand, public services have been but little developed. If the public services of the North Europe were a transatlantic, they would be to the patricians; let him who can save himself. And the care of care and care of care cannot be of families, nor of women. As a matter of all of us, men must also be in part, and even public institutions. Hence parental licenses are of the same duration, and universal public services, including children's schools, free and quality to all. We need a transatlantic so we don't drown it. We place our proposition in this direction: it is the basis of the mutual equality of preference and well-being between men and women. Iceland's our north.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u39	Thank you, President. There are endless reasons to defend the extension of permits and the equality between maternity and paternity permits. We are increasingly moving away from achieving a fertility rate that guarantees generational replacement, which guarantees a stable population pyramid, with all that it entails. The fertility rate in Spain is 1.32, according to data from 2014. Women are increasingly less willing to have children, and this is partly due to the cost of opportunity, as pregnancy is the main deterrent to female recruitment. But there are many more arguments than just those related to female recruitment figures and birth, of course. And it is that parents also have the right (we have) to enjoy that unrepeatable moment in the lives of our children. It is important to move towards true reconciliation, which is achieved on both the male and female sides. It is important to move towards real equality between men and women. And this is difficult to achieve when paternity leave is eight times less than maternity leave, clearly maintaining the role of the caring woman, with all that it entails. In 2010, 84% of parents used paternity leave, but less than 2% enjoyed the ten weeks that can be transferred from maternity leave to paternity leave, and less than 5% of unpaid surpluses, or paid at very low rates, were enjoyed by parents. This means that when the permit is non-transferable and remunerated, men make use of the permit, and therefore this is a measure that contributes to a more balanced distribution of the care of children. This is what we advocate in our electoral programme: to promote the expansion of parental leave, tending to equalize maternity and paternity leave in order to promote equal employment opportunities for men and women, and the right of both parents to participate equally in the upbringing of children. That is what we have included in our entire amendment, and of course we will support all the measures that go in that direction and that aim to achieve those objectives. That is to say, we advocate for the equalization of birth and adoption permits for both parents. Beyond the physical recovery that the woman who gives birth to the baby needs, and which obviously cannot be shared, there is another phase of care and upbringing that, far from being delegated, must be shared. We also advocate the extension of such permits to at least the six months recommended by the World Health Organization. It is true that maternity and paternity leave in Spain is within the EU average; however, there are countries such as Norway, Sweden, Iceland, Finland, or even Italy, where the leave is much wider and more equal. It is also about learning from those countries and moving in that direction, which I believe is a positive direction for all. The problem we see in EH Bildu's original initiative is the competition field. This regulation is the responsibility of the Government of Spain, and therefore our ability to influence permits that are regulated by state laws, and whose payment is managed by Social Security, is limited. This unique legislation seeks to maintain equality throughout the State, and it is for this defence of equality in all its fields that we cannot agree either with an approach that seeks to break equality between Basques and the rest of Spain, or between officials and the rest of Basque and Basque workers. What needs to be promoted is, therefore, the change of national law. That is why, in our amendment, what we have done basically is to urge the Government of Spain to change that law. Perhaps in the coming weeks, perhaps in the coming months there will be a new government going in that direction. We, in any case, defend this position of changing national law, I say, in order to promote the increase and equalization of birth and adoption permits throughout the country in the most equal manner possible. On the other hand, we believe it is a mistake to do pilot experiments with rights, even more so when we know that this is a social demand that no one would reject. A right must enjoy guarantees, and not be an experiment. In any case, rights must be extended, better than experienced, and that is what we advocate: amending the national law so that those rights can be extended and reach the greatest number of people. Finally, we want to show our support for the legislative initiative of the PPIINA platform, Platform for Equal and Non-Transferable Permits for Birth and Adoption, which last February 17th organized an informative breakfast at the Congress of Deputies where it presented a very interesting proposal for a law for the equalization of these permits, where all parties present in that House agreed to agree on a comprehensive reform of paternity and maternity permits, so that they are equal, non-transferable and paid 100 per cent. These three principles are also defended by us, and since all the political parties represented in Congress committed themselves to carrying out this initiative, I understand that there will be no problems for it to actually be, this is finally the case and let us move from words to facts. We therefore hope that an agreement will be reached as soon as possible to give effect to this right to childcare, as well as the right of children to be cared for by both parents. There are certainly many things to do, and this is one of them. We, in any case, in principle maintain our amendment in its entirety. We have just received an amendment agreed between EH Bildu and the Socialist Group. Some of the points we share, as I explained, other points are not. I don't know if there's finally a compromise amendment between the Basque Nationalist Group and the People's Group... I'm told no. If this is finally the case, what we will do will be to defend our amendment, which I think is perfectly well reflected, on the other hand, what a majority of this House supposedly thinks. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscalal Group Representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief physician, congressmen. We may say that in an advanced society the policy of association is also advanced, and that it is to promote all these politics between the aims of all institutions and administration. An advanced society is characterized by advanced reconciliation policies; therefore, it is obvious that all the public institutions and public administrations involved can have an interest, and among their objectives reinforce all those policies aimed at reconciling the family, work and personal life of parents. Certainly, the issue of paternity and maternity leave for the care of children has a fundamental role to play in reconciling personal, work and family life, and it is the debate that has been brought to this House today, but it must also be said that it is not the only measure, although it is an important measure, which contributes to making effective progress in these conciliation policies. For it must also be remembered here that permits last as long as they last, and that, however broad they may be, they are limited in time and are limited to a certain period of time. In order to achieve true equality, politics must be developed for equality, and that is to say, what all institutions and administrations have to do. And to move forward in the field of contact, it is essential to encourage boys or men's yellow paper. Of course, in order to advance equality, and in order to achieve effective equality between men and women, it is necessary to promote the reconciliation of work, personal and family life, and, of course, to advance reconciliation and co-responsibility, it is necessary to involve men, men. But no longer an implication by encouraging concrete measures, but also in many debates in which we have spoken about this issue we have talked about the role that education has to play in the field of conciliation, and more specifically also in the field of co-responsibility. Kontziliazio-politikari buruz hitz egiten dugunean, neurri desberdine di buruz hitz egiten dugu. In this sense, when we talk about reconciliation policies, we talk about policies promoted in different areas, and I would like to bring back here the progress that has been made by the Comprehensive Plan of Support for the Family in Maternity, which includes measures to boost reconciliation and co-responsibility, 2015-2017, promoted by the Government of Spain; all those measures that enable shared parenthood and motherhood, that are adopted in the existing economic and social conditions and that effectively respond to the expectations and needs of parents and to the emotional, psychological and physical development of minors. What is more, to promote and encourage companies and trade unions and the various public administrations and institutions that make up the public sector to be involved in the creation of a new working culture that allows for reconciliation and co-responsibility. Of course, also talk about the rationalization of schedules. With the current timetables in our country, and in general the existing culture, it is very difficult on many occasions to reconcile family life and work, because it must be recognized that the timetables here are more rigid than in the rest of Spain. I believe that there has been debate in this legislature in the Congress of Deputies, in the Senate, on this issue, and there has been significant progress. Of course, let us also talk about the new teleworking formulas, which are undoubtedly measures that make it possible to make clear progress in this conciliation by all of us. The debate before us today is the debate on maternity and paternity leave. It has already been explained the sixteen weeks that correspond to the mother, the possibility that the father takes ten weeks after the first six weeks that would be irrefutable of the mother, and the paternity leave of thirteen days uninterrupted, expandable, in case of multiple delivery, in two more days for each son or daughter from the second. The provision contained in the four-week Equality Act, which must also be remembered that this provision was introduced as a result of an amendment by the People's Party... And it is true that of the various governments with responsibility in the Government of Spain, the first of them, which was the one who was able to develop this normative forecast, the Government of Zapatero, therefore, could not carry out the fulfillment of this forecast, as he said. The economic crisis and the priorities of successive governments, and especially of the People's Party Government, which was the one that found a more delicate economic situation – and this has also been said in a sincere and honest manner in the successive debates in which this issue has been discussed in the Congress of Deputies – have made it impossible... The priority of economic recovery, the promotion of concrete measures to boost employment, have led to the priority being where it has had to be located. It is true that the economic scenario is now radically different from that found in 2011 by the People's Party Government, but it is also true that emphasis still needs to be placed on this consolidation of economic recovery and on job creation. We therefore believe that we also agree, because we have also expressed this in all the debates, in moving forward on this equalization, but we also believe that, according to the budgetary appropriations, it is a difficult objective to achieve at this time. But that does not remove, obviously, so that the objective is there and that it can be progressively achieved. The original propuesta por EH, está claro que nuamente en el ámbito compencial. I think it would be convenient not to speak of rights, or to speak of words, but not to mention them in a text; for in the end it is a great difficulty to make a treaty. And in the end, EHG is the same in the agreement between the Social Party and the Social Party. The popular party does not understand the end of this pilot's experience. The amendment by the Group of the European People's Party urged, and since we are in the Basque Parliament, the Basque Government to take all the measures and actions necessary to advance the conciliation process, and also measures that would make possible such progress in the area of competition also in paternity and shared motherhood, which I believe is also the objective of all of us in this House. I regret that EH Bildu and the Socialist Party have passed us a closed text, and therefore the ability to introduce some issue was quite difficult. It is true that we were given earlier at the beginning of this debate, but it was already a text that, so I was moved to, and moved to this morning, and I understand that you have had a possibility of approximation over these days, because it was quite closed. That's how I understood it. We have tried to reach a compromise text between the other three amending groups, but I also believe that there has been a closure on the part of everyone (even I can include myself), in looking more at what separates us than at what unites us. And I think that when we talk about these issues it would be more convenient to look at what unites us, rather than what separates us, which I think is a lot. That is why I am going to propose the possibility of subscribing to a text. I am also extending it to all groups, even those who already have the compromise amendment, but I think it would be good if we could urge the Spanish Government, of course, to move forward in extending paternity permits, so as to promote equal opportunities for work. I also believe that it would be good to urge the Basque Government, within the framework of collective bargaining, to take all necessary measures and actions, within the scope of its powers, to enable the reconciliation of working life and family co-responsibility. And also urge the Basque Government to strengthen existing conciliation policies. I believe that this has also been the subject of debate in this House, and on many occasions or on some occasions we have given this government a small earful, because there have been problems with conciliation aid, and I believe that everyone in the field of his or her powers must also shoulder the responsibilities that lie with him or her. I therefore leave this text open, which I believe is a text of minimums, and it is a text of minimums that would make it possible to move forward; to be able to draw out and – given that there are many things that unite us more than those that separate us on this issue – to move forward in a text, and that at this point a common text that would be extremely positive can come out of this House. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u42	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u43	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The EH Bildu group brings us a reflection that we share in general, but the justification that is made in the non-law proposal seems a little short. In our way of understanding and in our view, it remains somewhat short, because in substance only measures are proposed for public employees, who are the least of the workers in Euskadi. Because you didn't just solve what affects homosexual couples either. Because it does not refer to the thousands of homes where an adult is, about the vast majority of women, who carry on the family, and to whom this proposal does not offer conciliation solutions. And because it focuses only on parents and overlooks one of the most important reconciliation needs today, which will be in the future, as it is for dependents of different kinds. But the initial reflection we share, and we believe that this reality, in which women remain overwhelmingly responsible for conciliation, does not only respond to a patriarchal mentality. In fact, we all know here, fortunately more and more often, men who responsibly share the tasks of caring for their sons and daughters, even if they do not aim at those surpluses. Too many traces remain of this mentality, yes, but above all, the wage gap between men and women is widening, and the job insecurity between women and men is growing and increasing, which are the ones who occupy most of the temporary and part-time contracts. And it would be fair that we also recognize here that there may be more cultural loopholes in which men earn more than women. It can have a lot to do with them taking the permits, because that has less impact on household income for a heterosexual couple. That is why we Socialists believe that action must be taken on all fronts, especially work. And yes, as the proposer points out, there are things that are not directly in the hands of the Basque Government, indeed, but on which there are concrete proposals at the moment, which if there is a socialist government are possible. Because in the PSOE proposal to the various parties there is a law of equal pay and the increase of paternity permits in terms very similar to those that Bildu brings here. But there are other issues that are in our ability to decide, beyond the fact that there may be extended decisions to the rest of Spain. And they are what we put forward in our amendment. Some of us have already introduced them when we had the opportunity to govern in Euskadi, such as teleworking in all areas of the Administration, that decree which remains in force and which seems to have received a hundred public employees over the past year. It is a formula that can also be transferred to the fields of social dialogue, employers and trade unions, to explore in jobs where possible. In this area of social dialogue, the rationality of working hours can also be promoted in collective negotiations, or, as we have also proposed from the PSOE, the establishment of hourly credits for the care of families, equal for men and women, without affecting their wages. And we have to think about those new forms of family. The proposer quotes a reality, that of the homosexual couple. Its legal recognition in all areas on equal terms with any other form of choice has undoubtedly been a achievement and must also be reflected in this area of conciliation. But it has surprised us that the proposal has overlooked another very extensive social reality, which is also the fruit of the long struggle for equality, and that, however, it has no protection in conciliation, nor with another set of specific needs. I refer, as I indicated at the outset, to the 80,000 single-parent households in Euskadi. The vast majority, about 65,000, are homes where a lonely woman takes care of her children for various reasons (viability, divorce or free decision to exercise maternity alone), and in my group we wonder how these people can exercise real reconciliation alone. It is a very broad collective to which we must give more answers, but which we are talking about today in particular. There is one issue that we have already adopted in this Parliament and to which the Government has not responded. In the November 2014 monograph on unemployment and poverty, at the request of our group, the Socialist Group, we asked the Executive for a specific support plan for working people who are active or unemployed and who have family burdens, so that they can attend training courses essential for their recycling. In defending this proposal, we already indicated that we thought of all kinds of workers and unemployed with family burdens, but that we thought specifically of those with no one to share that responsibility, such as single-parent families, as I have explained before, who, I repeat, are headed especially by women and who are also particularly vulnerable and at risk of exclusion. This debate that EH Bildu has brought us has seemed to us an opportunity for the Government to remember that it must also fulfil this mandate which is so attached to the possibilities of conciliation and to the fight against the various forms of inequality. That is why we Socialists are in favour of starting to equate birth and adoption permits for children, if necessary by legal mandate. Not just this. In previous debates we have shown our willingness to make conciliation a subjective right (to conciliation, not aid, but conciliation itself); to ensure that we can take care of our families without this penalizing us, especially women, in our working lives and in our professional careers. We believe that we must begin to lay the foundations for the fourth pillar of the welfare state, the protection of social rights from criteria of solidarity and from the public, such as pensions, health and education. And yes, we can start by doing what's in our hand. The Basque public administration, with flexible measures at work in those places where it is possible, exploring the extent of telework in public places where it is possible to implement it, encouraging social agreement in collective bargaining, so that parents have the children they want without fear of losing their jobs or their well-being, so that men and women also care for their dependents, especially the elderly, in an increasingly ageing Euskadi. We must work to prevent the heads of single-parent families from continuing to juggle to take care of their relatives, so that everyone can choose their family model without risking exclusion. Therefore, we are committed to this equality, which must be further strengthened in the legal sphere. We bet clearly that men are better integrated into work and home care, and that they are fully involved in the care of the family, both of children and of sick relatives or with some disability. We bet to continue to work on changes in gender activities, towards a less sexist model, promoting more egalitarian behaviors, both at home and in the couple. We bet that this reconciliation is possible in new forms of family, the fruit of each one's freedom. And we bet that these changes that we advocate can be developed without excuses. For our part, we bet to change the very bases of inequalities on which part of women..., through the basic legislation for the whole of Spain, but also to change what is here, in our hand, not only for public employees, but for all workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u45	Yeah. In the first place, Madam Congressmaster, would it be possible to ask for my participation and then for a moment's rest? It may be that in this matter we come to a minimum agreement between all the teams and we'd like to... Yeah? Thank you. Very well, thank you. Chief department, congressmen, good noon to everyone. Yesterday's headlines were "el permiso por hijos, al Parlamento Vasco" and then when they were little, and some of the parliamentary members of the EH Collectors quoted this subject as a conveniency that belongs to Congress. And it's important for me to notice this, from the competition to which it belongs. Why? Well, according to what you'll hear during my involvement. First, It must be said, that in this legislature we have a bill of law, which all the groups have already in hand, published by the Government, the bill of the law of the public employment of Euscal. In this, too, as usual, a precursor, a man who proposes to prolong his motherly leave, and also his father's, among many other proposals. And why this space is not used to change this state, I would like to ask, why the paths are not commonly used to make such proposals, taking advantage of the law's project among us in the legislature. He said that in December 2015 the Basque Government Council approved the Basque Public Employment Bill, which aims to update the regulated public employment system twenty-five years ago in the Civil Service Act, which has been in force since 1989. And, among other news, he raises maternity leave from eighteen to twenty weeks, and from twenty-eight to thirty-two days the paternity leave. It is not to equate, no, that is what my parliamentary group and this Government would certainly like, but they are steps forward, steps towards their achievement. He would also like to see equality with the Socialist Party. His statement of intent, collected in the transactional with EH Bildu, makes it very clear. The curious thing is that where he is competent to do so, in Madrid, being at the head of the José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero government, he was the first to fail to fulfil this premise of progress towards achieving this equality. And so, from 2009 until today, all the governments that have passed through Madrid. "The agreement for a reformist and progress government" is the title of the agreement that is being forged these days between the Socialist Party and Citizens. Point four, point 3 of the agreement, measures for equality between men and women; says: "Promoting the incorporation into collective bargaining of measures related to the rationalization of working times and working hours, as well as the establishment of time availability formulas that allow workers to accumulate hourly credits for the care of personal responsibilities". I am glad that your party has made it clear that in Madrid these kinds of measures must be analysed and channelled through collective bargaining, which is what my group called for in its amendment. And then that agreement also states that there will be an increase in maternity and paternity leave, from the current eighteen weeks to twenty-six. Untransferable maternity leave will be extended from six to eight weeks, paternity leave will be eight weeks non-transferable. The distribution of the remaining 10 weeks will be optional between the mother and the father. As we see, there may be many changes in the area of this issue, changes for good on the road to equalizing maternity and paternity leave. It is no secret that the party to which I belong wants and demands the transfer of social security, but, while that does not happen, we must address the issue realistically and always seek the welfare of this Basque society. If this agreement signed by the Socialist and Citizens' Party were effective and Social Security took over these extensions and permits raised, this Government, the Basque Government would be willing to take on even more. It is already doing so, as reflected in the bill presented, but it would have the margin to go much further. Because equality is not the reason for discussion here today, it is not the disagreement. The disencounter is the model, which is the best model to establish this equality here in Euskadi. Well, I wanted to ask Bildu if his model, the one he proposes, is the best. You're not listening to me. He's talking about the Icelandic model. And why? Because it occurred to you that the Icelandic model is the best? Is he the best for Euskadi? Could you accommodate our needs? That and many more should be studied, because there are so many models: Icelandic, Norwegian, Swedish..., but many more than you have not commented on, and we do not know which of them would be the most appropriate for us. Experiments... as Mr. Maneiro has said, it seems to me that this is not the time to do any experiments. We therefore understand that they should all be studied. And of course Emakunde has a lot to say. Emakunde, like many other agents. But within the framework of collective bargaining, which is what we have always advocated, this is where it is appropriate to adopt such agreements. That you can propose things? Good. But why does it have to be just that one and only, to establish that model, that pilot project? There is no prior analysis to indicate this. The argument is that it is the right one because in Iceland it has gone well. Oh, all right! And that's an unequivocal proof that it's the most suitable solution here? The Icelandic model obliges the father to take one third of the permit. Is that what we want, you only have to take a third? The rest is voluntary. Is that really going to lay the groundwork for co-responsibility? It's not a hundred percent paid either! The Swedish model, the Norwegian... As I have already said, there are a lot of models, there are endless reports talking about this issue, and we do not understand why we have to choose this one and only and we have to urge the collective negotiating table or the Government to put that one and only because Bildu seems to be the best. We understand that it is an unmatured proposal and very much in front of the media, again, looking for a headline. And that's a mistake; it's a mistake to pre-define what the path is going to be. And we say face-to-face to the gallery above all by taking a look at the signed transactional. The first point is very important; it is now Spain, the central government. The rest of the stitches? In the second we do not agree, so I have just said, because this pilot project is the only possible option. And that Emakunde analyse situations of inequality of women for their dedication to the care of children and independents? If he already does, he's been doing it for a long time! We cannot accept this point. And the rest of the points, at the request of the Socialist Party, therefore, more of the same. If in all of them the government is already working! It seems to me that I have understood you, Mrs Fresno, that the Socialist Party's proposals in the agreement are on top of it... we are already working on it! We are now opening up a very broad legal framework in this area at the state level and at the level of Euskadi, and we believe it is important that it is time to reach firm and progressive agreements, indeed, but effective and realistic, without conditioning all responsible actors. Parenthood has also been spoken of in an integrated manner, not only about the equipment of the permissients, but in a more extensive protection to the families. I think the Social Party has said it and the members of the Populative Party have also said it. On this subject, as the President himself advanced in the pliant of general policy, the great judge of strategy which is at work in the Government will soon be introduced. And even then, it's planned that when this strategy is introduced, it's going with corporations and unions into the desk agenda. So in this one too, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you're always a precursor, you know? "Políticas de a toadyo a las family en Euskadi." The title Análisis y propesstas is made a dromative between our member and Europe, and there are really very interesting data. I cheer you up to examine it. So, as I said before, this government is always precursor. The advance still continues to give, but respecting the space corresponding to time and space corresponding to it. Because of all this, we think it's our best correction, at least so far. I don't know if we're having a break and we'll change our mind, but that's what we're going to defend right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. We'll break up, you'll go. How much longer do you need?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u47	I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u48	Well, when it's over, I'll ring the bell, okay? When we start again, I'll ring the bell so everyone finds out, okay? The meeting was interrupted at twelve-and-twenty-two. At twelve o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at fifty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u49	Good afternoon again. We'll continue on the set, not at the previous point, but we'll leave the previous point where we were before, but we'll go on with the next point, if those who have to take the word don't have a problem, don't we? Not on principle. The seventh point on the theme list: "The same proposal as the popular U.S. Acting People of the U.S. Act, to the mental health of the A.A.A.'s attention to the health of the people who are without reserve, according to the recommendations of the report of the United States. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mr Barrio, representative of the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u50	Thank you, President. Good morning again, Lehendakari, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the Ararteko recently appeared in the Commission on Human Rights explaining an interesting report on social and health care for the mental health of persons deprived of their liberty. The Ararteko gave there data, an analysis of what had been the work of the leading institution, and in that sense some conclusions emerged from that report. It should be remembered that prison health was transferred to the Autonomous Community on 1 July 2011, and since that transfer, work has been done and progress has been made, and this is what must be acknowledged, in the way prison health is, health in prisons in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. They have also worked, and we have seen, different working groups, working groups sometimes made up of staff from Osakidetza and from prison institutions, and work has been done and work continues, because it has not yet been completed, so to speak, on prison health integration. And, well, there are aspects to highlight: there has been much progress in what is using Osabide, in the clinical history of patients, and other more specific aspects, such as telemedicine... And indeed there is progress and Ararteko is also expressed in that report in that regard. We, among other things... Of course, there is the report available to everyone, and we do not have to review it, but we had remained with an appeal made by the defender of the Basque people, an appeal in relation to some of the basic issues addressed in this report on social and health care for mental health. Among the recommendations of the report was one that is justified and that Ararteko explains both in the conclusions and in the recommendations, as in the development of an equally powerful and interesting report, I say again. The Ararteko stated in recommendation No. 10 that Osakidetza's implementation of a prison health plan is necessary, which allows for the uniform care of prisoners in the various prisons, given that there are currently differences in the criteria for care and in the equipment, as well as the absence of protocols for coordination and referral to the resources of the community network. Well, it's an important reference, it's a recommendation that's logical to make after an analysis, and it's also logical that it can be addressed from the Department of Health, from Osakidetza. He also said that, with regard to mental health, the prison health plan had to define the interaction with the framework programme for comprehensive care of mentally ill persons in prisons, whose effective implementation required, in any case, some improvement. And he talks about the need to fine-tune the criteria for the inclusion of prisoners in the above-mentioned programme; he said that it is essential that all persons suffering from serious personality disorders be included in the framework programme... I also understood that it was necessary not to exclude from the program people in whom the psychotic or personality disorder is comorbid with a substance use disorder... He also said that it was essential to coordinate the health and prison aspects that converge on the person; therefore, permanent channels of coordination between the prison technicians and technicians and the Osakidetza health personnel involved in the prison environment should be established... In that regard, it seems highly advisable that this analysis should continue to be addressed from a concrete point of view, and that is why we understand that the Ararteko has worked in that regard, and here are the issues that it manifests. He said, in relation to the transfer of prison health and some of the advances that are detected..., but we did observe the absence – and this says so in the conclusions – of a prison health plan on the part of Osakidetza that allows to care homogeneously and equivalent to the people imprisoned in the different prisons. That is what we said in the recommendation, which is also reflected in the conclusions. And it fell to the detail of a number of points: differences in the criteria of care are observed, the absence of protocols of coordination between the medical teams of the three prisons is detected... He also said: "There are differences in the staffing of the various teams. It does not seem appropriate to use the units of prison custody for the care and evaluation of prisoners with mental disorders, and it is advisable that these psychiatric patients be admitted to the acute units of the corresponding hospital." He also spoke of "From the information offered by the mental health atlases of Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, and in the confidence that these kinds of tools will be extended to the territory, it is necessary to deepen, by the professionals who carry out their work, in the exhaustive knowledge of the health resources available to Osakidetza". He also spoke of the absence of protocols for the access and referral of the person suffering from mental illness. It also referred to a more structured, intense and uniform presence and intervention of professionals. There was also a need to reflect on the nature of prison health care in general terms. It also seems that it would be desirable to facilitate access by prison medical teams to forensic medical reports, etc. Well, they're a number of issues that seemed to be analyzed; some of them that talk about coordination and talk about that lack of protocols, seem to be more or more insistent. And that is why we have tabled a non-legislative proposal, in which we understood and want the Basque Parliament to urge the Department of Health of the Basque Government to draw up a plan for health or prison health that will allow for the uniform treatment of mentally ill prisoners and other pathologies in the various prisons, which will focus on the criteria of care, equipment, the development of coordination protocols and referral to the resources of the Community network. I say again, it is to collect the suggestions and recommendations of a specialized study by the institution of Ararteko, and that is our claim. Indeed, we have seen and have seen a compromise amendment in which, in addition to this issue of drafting a prison health plan in relation to prisoners, we are talking about the transfer of prison institutions in general. For us that is another debate, which will have its materialization, but it is another debate of what is the point question once the issue of prison health has been transferred in its day. But, well, in the vote on the compromise amendment we will ask for a separate vote. On the second point, of course, we will vote in favour. And in the first, then, we will not oppose, we will abstain, because that is part of another type of negotiations, which would not be the ad hoc ones on this issue that we are raising. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u51	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections from EH Collector, Mrs. Blanco is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u52	Thank you, ma'am. Chief departments, congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good noon. Today, we will be paying attention to poor minds who are without freedom. Thanks to the file made by the interrogator, we can talk today of more precision. That's why we're here to rectify the deficiencies that are in prison. The numbers are to be counted. In this community there are 1,400 people in prisons. Among them, there are about 600 people suffering a mental illness, and 100 people have a serious mental illness. 1.400 people in the community, but another 800 of them are citizens of euscal or other states. Far from their origin, far from their homes. We want to highlight another data at this time: in the last five years 45 escali prisoners have died in prisons or in prisons in the South Basque Country. We are talking, therefore, about a number of people who have died to take into account, without depreciating, of course, those who suffer from chronic illness or mental illness, as is the case today. And all this happens in institutions that are in our territory, but of which we know little and on which we have little capacity to influence. That is why we included a fundamental point in our amendment as a whole: we are talking about the need to complete all prison transfers as soon as possible, so that the mental health care of prisoners is part of a model of criminal execution of their own. We are not proposing anything new, because this request is consistent with parliamentary agreements that have already been adopted in this House, and with the Ararteko's own recommendation. This point has also been included in the compromise amendment that we have signed, word for word, as was in our amendment as a whole. And at the moment I would like to thank both Mr Orbegozo and Mrs Roncal for their willingness to reach an agreement, and I have to say that it has been tremendously simple. It is clear, that if the object of prison punishment is to civilize the prisoner, we must consider whether the pattern and management of the present day should be attended with it. And, of course, about the collective we're looking at today, poor minds. They are in a vulnerable situation, and sometimes this fragile situation is doubled, for instance, in women's cases, or in people who lack family protection. We know that habits of mind are often not easily diagnosed, and these difficulties of diagnosis increase when sick people are in prisons. Therefore it is essential to establish a protocol in order to penetrate into the form of professionals, and to give an early attention to others. The system which is now established according to the report of the interrogators, the PAIEM, does not reach all persons, and with this program it is very difficult to form the society of prisoners, because the process of abortion is within, between four walls and the bottles. The equity, therefore, which we so often display in health, is in this case disputed. In that committee in which the Ararteko presented the report on social and health care for prisoners suffering from mental illness, it was clear that there are many gaps in the approach to this issue. For example, it insisted on providing coordinated care, articulating personalized resources to treat these people in a comprehensive manner and to care for all prisoners in the same way, regardless of where they were serving their sentence. And while the care of sick prisoners inside the prison is so important, it is no less important to include social and health care at the time of release from prison. It is therefore essential that public resources be set up in a social and health network (protected floors, residential structures) and that appropriate monitoring be carried out on the street to control the disease and promote the social integration of these people. We share this communal model from the EH Union, the public model. Because it's very important to normalize the life of these prisoners, and to provide them with productive and specialized attention, by means of the means required to do so. We must, therefore, cultivate the problem of this collective by three distinct parts, in our opinion. First of all, considering the same health fever that's given. Secondly, Sociative attention, which is the end of the socialization of simple minds. And finally, that's why we find it necessary to transfer prison manager's transfer to rights. These three parts are of great importance, as well as the three of them connected together. All this is received in the medium we have signed, we demand a transfer of the necessary rights to the Spanish Government, on the one hand, and on the other we ask him to do me a health plan for prisons, to correct the obvious problems and disabilities of the intermediary. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u54	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, good morning to all. This non-legislative proposal is indeed the result of the appearance of Ararteko in the Joint Commission on Health and Social Services, Human Rights, in which he explained that he had carried out field work, had been interviewed with prisoners, psychiatrists and staff of the prisons themselves, and as a result he brought us a series of recommendations. I will not repeat what has already been said by those who have spoken before me and who have pointed out certain shortcomings. I am going to stress another aspect, which actually attempts to be corrected precisely by the first point in our compromise agreement, which are the conditions for serving the sentence. The Ararteko report does not place any particular emphasis on this, but it did point out that penalties in certain prisons under certain conditions can make mental health worse. And in this sense, our first point, which speaks of the transfer of prisons and prison powers, confirms that, in fact, the penalties themselves can be a cause of mental illness. That proposal that the penalties be almost, almost a revenge against the one who has committed a crime, or the one who is an addict and indeed as a result of his addictions, or perhaps of an inadequate previous mental health, delinquent, those penalties, that reviewable permanent detention, that already in itself generates a mental illness! Because it is not the same to have adequate and compassionate penalties, and to attempt social reinstatement, as they are used as punishment and revenge for having delinquent. That on the one hand, the penalty itself. But then there are the conditions in which this sentence is fulfilled: the massing of prisons, the cutting of healthy conditions so that... The penalty they have is deprivation of liberty! There is no need to add additional penalties! That feeling that you put luxury in jails, that there are pools... Look, they haven't been deprived of vital minimums for development! Because the unfavourable conditions of the prison itself are always for the most vulnerable, because those who have resources are already bringing resources from outside. Thus, public resources placed in prisons are designed to facilitate equal enforcement of sentences between those who do not have the resources and those who do have them. Therefore, the transfer of prisons, of prison powers, is called for precisely to improve these conditions of prisons, so as not to worsen mental health itself. And I will not repeat what those who have spoken before me have already said. We agree that both agreed conditions are indeed necessary, both the transfer of prisons and the improvement of staffing and health coordination precisely in a population with a much higher percentage of mental illness than the general population. Therefore, nothing but to ratify the acceptance of this transaction, and to try to push for the Government to do everything in its power to improve these conditions. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u56	Good noon, everyone. First of all, we must remember, as has been said before, that in 2011 a year, the Basque Medical Department received the right to the endurance of prison health. And in July 2011, the transfer was completed, by the hand of the Medical Department, and consequently by the responsibility of the Osar. Ever since that time, the health insurance services which are offered to people in prisons have improved and increased in our native Autonomy. That is to say, following the transfer of prison health to the Department of Health of the Basque Government, progress has been made in the quality and quantity of the health services offered to persons deprived of liberty in the prisons of our Autonomous Community. And this assertion is not something invented: As Mr Barrio has mentioned, and the interrogator himself insisted on the scene on the committee, in the course of which the progress of 2011 years had been advanced. It may, therefore, be said that prison health services have penetrated into the usual practice of members of the Local Council. It is clear, however, that the logical limits established by this particular context have a direct influence on the course. Anyway, in order to face health problems, it's possible to establish normal dynamics that can be given in a normal health center. And also to give prominent steps on certain pathological tendencies which demand specialisation. Therefore, it has been possible to install a dynamic very similar to that that can be given in a health centre in Osakidetza and to make definite progress in the pathologies that require specialized or hospital care. And in that normalization route, it was a key to the prison doctors to have an entrance to the Globe Store. In the same way, the possibility of a long-distance consultation has given rise to many advantages, among other things, of waiting for a consultation almost to disappear for the people in prison. That is, thanks to the possibility of carrying out remote consultations, for example, as has been mentioned above with regard to telepsychiatry, telematic care, unlike before, delays are virtually zero. In this sense, too, the concrete structures in which, within the sphere of mental health, each historical region have been enabled to maintain a certain existence in psychiatry and mental health. In this case the psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, and nurses, take part in the prison for every country. Asinicia que además es proporcinal y ajustada a la prevalence e inensid de las patologías detectas. And not only that. In certain cases, in the case of certain criminal or proscisal circumstances, such as, for instance, mental health diseases are attended to public psychiatric hospitals belonging to Osa. I mean, outside of the prisons, for instance in the Psychiatry Law of the Menni Hospital. And this choice, this situation, compared to state, is quite different. For these considerations of security are fulfilled in the hospitals of the Psychiatric or Sevilla prison, or else in prisons as a common sentence or punishment. Besides, I would like to praise the importance of the work which several foreign institutions do within the circle of attention. And I'd like to stress out the subsidies you gave me from the Basque Games, especially the Medical Department. In fact, the work of these independent institutions is indispensable, and the work which they co-ordinately co-ordinately with professional co-ordinated co-operation. In fact, we can't forget that in many cases the poor in prisons are patients of these two compounds. Esto es, la laborer que quehas ONGrealen, coordidas con el personal de gatención pro de Osa, porque frucente pacente pacentes a ambos circuitos. On the other hand, as far as PAIEM's plan is concerned, that is, in the prison context of prisons, to treat people with mental illness, special professionals in mental health, but also professionals in the first prison are involved. It is therefore necessary to penetrate into their co-ordination. The intermediary mentioned in this plan the question of decoination, and we believe that it is always possible to improve it, that progress can always be advanced to improve service, although it is true, and the interrogator himself asserted that the Ertar system works well in general. Nevertheless, as I have said, we are ready to continue to improve that system, and we believe it is necessary. And linked to this, when the intermediary mentioned spreading to other pathologicals or changes to be made within the PAIEM, we must consider that in the Spanish State prison system the standardized procedure is a standardized procedure. And even if we make a special plan in our circle, this opportunity of seeing PAIEM is open, it is being updated to give true solutions, in prevention, and after the procedure. And on the way he's doing it in state-level, just in the document of the committee to examine the cases of mental health connected with the prisoner's condition, like the sheriff, our Autonomia Erdigo. In this regard, it should be noted that this document is part of the mental health strategy of the national health system; indeed, a document that was signed at the time within the interterritorial council by all health advisers of the different communities, including that of Euskadi. We believe that it is fair, therefore, to highlight also the good work done in Osakidetza by the commission for the coordination of care in penitentiary institutions and the manual approved by that body. A manual setting out the health-administrative procedures in the prison environment and which has become a reference for other institutions. A manual that is public and could be considered perfectly as a plan, even if it does not have that name, since any interested person can access from the Osakidetza website itself in its section on prison health. But again we say that our team has no objection to the fact that there is much in respect of mental health about co-ordination to improve and also in the section of PAIEM. So we agree with the order we received in the delivery correction. In like manner, as we have often asked for more than once in this Chamber, and as the intermediary demanded in the occurrence, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to hand over the whole of our jurisdiction. As a result of the transfer in 2011, the primary attention is first available in prisons. Consequently, apart from the specialized existence and the psychiatric psyche, the prisoners can get their first attention in prisons from the professional members of the Oscars. Moreover, the attention which the citizens of the Eran Autonomys can receive with this persistence homologized. Hence, in our view of the advantages which it seems to us to possess, the transfer or transfer of the prison guard, as we wish to ask the Spanish Government to make the whole of it. So we also thank the other teams for their agreement, and thank you simply.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u57	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing the teams that have no corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro? He mustn't speak. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u58	Yes, thank you very much, President. From the seat, with your permission. Well, I think he's made some progress. Indeed, what was requested, what we understood and verified in that parliamentary committee that was a necessity, today will materialize by urging the Department of Health of the Basque Government to carry out this prison health plan, in order to meet and to complete those deficits or deficiencies that were still observed after the specialized, comprehensive analysis made by Ararteko in relation to health care in the prison and in relation to mental health. That is to say, the development of a competition that the Government already has, that is what we are actually asking for, and what is essential is the development of that competition at this time. The other question that arises, the development of the general competence of prison institutions, well, can be demanded, or can be addressed, or can be manifested, but that does not have to make the competence that the Government already has, which is prison health, not develop. That is why it is so important to draw up this plan to which we have referred. And as long as that other transfer is not made, so that it is developed, improved, capacities improved, health skills in the prison sector. I think that's the big breakthrough. The other issue will be part of the negotiations between the Central Government and the Autonomous Community on issues that may remain outstanding, but what is important today is the development of a competence that we already have, which is prison health within the framework of people with mental illness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u59	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Blanco? He mustn't speak. Mrs. Roncal? Mr. Blueberry? Not even. Now that the discussion has ended, we shall put the original text of the proposition of Euskalia, like the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Berber]] Itxoin! For points? But the transactional or the original text? Okay. We vote again. We'll vote for the original text of another proposal like Euskal Potula. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 70; the votes given, 72; the supporters 11. The opposites, 61; white, 0; abstations, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u60	So he didn't accept it. Next, the Basque Socialists, the EH Collectors, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertarians. You're asking for stitches, can you? Yeah? Okay, so we vote for the first point, first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conferences were 70; 72; the supporters, 61; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u61	So the first point is accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 72; in favour 72, contrary to 0; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u62	So the second point has been accepted unanimously. Yes, Mr. Maniro?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u63	Yes, Madam President, I was wrong in the first vote, I wanted to vote against instead of abstaining. Just so it's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u64	Okay. That's on the record. Bear wave. Now we're going to go to number five, replicate. My dear lady, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u65	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. EHG seems important to him to come from general expressions to precise commitments and steps, and that is why we came here today with a definite and possible proposal. He only requires to be able to develop, to be political, to be willing. We compare parent licenses in both areas and in the public or private sector, and we propose as a starting-point to a pilot project. Because parental consents must have the same duration, impregnable and 100% paid. Project pilot's not the final destination, it's the starting point. I also mentioned in Iceland the first experience that Reiciavik did at the City Hall, and then the whole Iceland project was spread. So I don't think it's ambition that's missing us. We think it's necessary to start taking steps and that's why we've made a special effort to reach the minimum agreement with PNV. As Jonan Fernandez would say, in order to obtain a dwarf. We've been trying to remove the suggestion of the pilot of the project and suggest that we take a look at the pilot's project and examine the possibility of making a pilot project according to the results. We've only tried to propose that proposal to test the frame of collective negotiation. But the answer was no. PNV was not interested in commitments. As a saying says, "When there is anything to be achieved, the means are put together, and when there is no attempt to do anything is sought for excuses." What public policies did you want to make or do? We still continue with this question, and it is true that many things can be done, many proposals can be brought, and we have brought a definite and unreproachable proposition to-day, and the answer has not been answered. We were told by PNV that our model is Iceland, and why Iceland must be a pattern and no other country. Yes, of course, Iceland is our model and I've introduced it that way. The peer of the permissions, the same duration, the unreproachable, paid 100 percent, each is six months ahead. That's our model. What we don't say is that it must be the pattern of everyone. When we propose a pilot of a project, we do not propose that the project should respond to that model, but that the destination, the license must be matched, must be equalized. The project would be executed by an examination of what kind of a pilot this would be like, and it would be seen what departments or departments it would be able to operate on, what calendars and what investments it would require. We're not here to propose a concrete pilot, but to propose to begin working in that direction. We don't know if PNV will be planning to draw another bird's mark as the sign of a red joke for the Basques. Zozo, cuckoo... Who knows? But the question is on the table, I mean, what public policy does PNV think of promoting men's reaction? What public policy? And yes, for example, in March, the fun of making a conversation about the new paternitys is a good argument to talk about it around here. But when we bring a specific proposal to make a progress around it, it's just as interesting to close all the doors and follow them as it is today. I want to thank for Rosa Fresno's attitude, because it is true, although we had very different interests and views from this point forward, that she really tried to agree. This shows, above all, that the will to attain the agreement is possible, and we have, in some measure, managed to join the different interests and views in the middle of the line, we have managed, in some measure, to concentrate on these interests, and I really appreciate Rosa Fresno's position. We have received in the middle of the process a general expression of comparison of parent permissions and the role of starting the pilot of the project. And then we've also received other measures suggested by the Socialist team, but then I think that Rosa Fresno has explained these measures better than I have. To conclude, I would also be grateful for the PPIINA platform working in the Spanish State, for all the work the parental license has done to match. I don't know what's going to happen yet, but the right hand seems to have agreed to a middle line... We were just trying to get this action straight up to the North, we wanted to look up to Iceland and not Madrid, but it looks like we didn't get it, because they did a middle-class thing to make no difference. The result, the old policies, the antisocial policies, and the people the loser.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u66	Thank you, Mrs. New House. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u67	Yes, thank you very much. Briefly, to explain what has happened in the last hour, in the last hour and a half, and what is finally the agreement we have reached between the Popular Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and UPyD. With regard to the compromise amendment signed between the Socialist Group and the EH Bildu Group, a common problem has arisen in these cases, and we have been presented at the last minute with a text that seemed to be finally closed. And not only that, but in the course of the subsequent dialogues and negotiations between the different groups we were told at a certain time that they were not going to allow point voting. Faced with these facts, and bearing in mind that we wanted an ambitious text to come out that would capture the fundamentals of what we all stand for, we have signed a transactional where all this that you have possibly already received is collected. With regard to the initial compromise amendment signed between the Socialist Group and the EH Bildu Group, finally, the People's Group saw problems in the first point, particularly as regards how to draft it, and the Basque Nationalist Group also saw some problems with the wording of the last three points. And with regard to the second point and the proposal for a pilot project, obviously the Socialist Group and the EH Bildu Group have every right in the world to defend this initiative, but the other groups, and in particular UPyD, consider it not a good idea. We believe that the goal is to improve all laws that can be improved so that rights can be realized as soon as possible, rather than launching pilot experiments like the one that was being proposed. And, therefore, the fundamental thing to do in this matter is to reform national law. As we have been told before, there will soon be a socialist government, and we understand that this will be one of the measures it will take, without any doubt. In any case, we'll see what happens. As I say, we have signed a compromise that will go ahead with the vote of the three groups that have signed it. In any case, what is important to us and the principles we uphold are the following. Maternity and paternity leave should be broader, equal, non-transferable and 100 per cent remunerated. I believe that this is something that we share with all the groups in this House. This requires a change of national law. They are not worth patches, we need to change the national law to guarantee the same rights to all. We also defend the same rights for all workers, without favour treatment for certain groups or for certain employees. And we also defend the same rights for all citizens, regardless of the part of Spain where they live. This is at least what I see reflected in that transactional, and of course we also include a number of requests to the Basque Government to take all necessary action on this issue, provided that the principles set out above are respected. I think we have done a good job of dialogue, negotiation and agreement so that this transaction will finally come forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u68	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscalal Group Representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, Sailburuok. Well, from the People's Group we have to say that we are more satisfied than in the first intervention. And I have to say that I regret that we will not be able to reach an agreement unanimously on this point. On the other hand, I would also like to thank, after the appeal to dialogue by this group, when it was being found that there were many points of union in relation to this matter of conciliation, for the effort that at least all groups have made in trying to reach an agreement. With regard to the compromise amendment tabled to us by EH Bildu, the proposing group, and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, I have to say that it has been presented to us at the last moment, and therefore, although we have had the opportunity to bring forward positions, it would be to bring forward positions on a text and points which the proposing groups also considered to be immobile. On the other hand, a compromise has been signed in which we participate as amending groups, which we are obviously satisfied with, because we believe that things are done as they have to be done: the Spanish Government is urged, but not in any way, as we are used to in this House, but by bringing into an amendment to the Basque Parliament an agreement signed in the Congress of Deputies itself by all groups. I therefore believe that this is where strength is really built, in line with another institution which can also really urge the Government of Spain, which has the competence in this area, the competence to regulate paternity and maternity leave for the care of children by birth and adoption. In this regard, we incorporated, as I said, an agreement of the Equality Commission at its meeting on 10 October 2012, which, as I say, was an agreement unanimously to an initial proposal of the Convergence i Unió group, in which a paragraph of an amendment of the People's Party was expressly added as well. The text would be as follows: on the one hand, we urge the Government of Spain to address, as soon as the economic situation permits, and taking into account the recommendations of the subcommission for the study of the rationalization of hours, reconciliation of personal, family and work life and co-responsibility, the comprehensive reform of birth, adoption or foster leave, which has as its fundamental objectives to ensure the right of children to receive care from each parent on an equal basis and for the benefit of each parent and for the whole family; to guarantee, on an equal basis, the rights of both parents to reconcile quality employment with maternity and paternity, without losing their income and without being deprived of the enjoyment of their personal and family life; and to progress towards the equalization of birth, adoption and foster leave between both parents, so that both parents have the same personal and non-transferable period, eliminating the dysfunctions existing in the current legislation in this regard". On the other hand, we also urge the Basque Parliament to strengthen all measures in the field of work to facilitate conciliation and care for minors and dependent persons; also to continue to promote and encourage the teleworking formula, to which I referred in my speech; also to promote agreements in collective bargaining that promote conciliation measures; and also to take into account, in these conciliation policies, new family models, especially single parents, which may have difficulty in simultaneously performing work with the care of minors. We are therefore satisfied from the Group of the European People's Party, because the Spanish Government is urged in the terms in which it has been urged on other occasions by the Congress of Deputies itself and unanimously, and because we also place duties on the Basque Government, which also has competence in this matter. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u70	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u71	Thank you, President. Like my fellow Members who have already preceded me, Members of Parliament, I would like to reflect a little what the second point has been, that we have not reached any agreement. I do not understand the fear of analyzing a situation working with Emakunde, doing a job, analyzing a situation of inequality that women have in their dedication, in their care for minors, in the care of dependents, because we do not really know the exact degree of inequality that exists. Indeed, we believe that this amendment that we had sex with EH Bildu could be an amendment in which we were going to have a fairly important agreement with all the political groups, because what we really insisted on, above all on the third point, is that, in the area of the competences of the Basque Government... We said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, within its remit, to provide flexible measures at work to facilitate the reconciliation and care of minors and dependent persons. To this end, it will continue to promote, among other things, the formula of teleworking." A telework that, of course, the Patxi López government has set in motion and is working, and today there are about a hundred and peak people who are using it. Why can't that be put in place in jobs, apart from private enterprise? Pilots can be made, studies can be made so that it can be evaluated if possible and can help the reconciliation. We believe it is important to promote agreements in collective bargaining between the social partners that promote conciliation measures. It seems to us very important, and not only in the public enterprise, which is already being collected, but also in the private enterprise. We think it's fundamental. And that in all conciliation policies it addresses the peculiarities that present new family models, especially single parents, being an extensive collective with specific difficulties to be able to simultaneously care for minors with the performance of work tasks, training or job search. In this regard, we urged the Government to fulfil a mandate, something we have asked and want to ask again. In the November 2014 plenary, my party, the Socialist Group, made some proposals, made some approaches in the support plan for people who are active or unemployed. What information do we have about that? We don't know anything. The representative of the Nationalist Party can also answer me. What activities have been carried out? How is this support plan helping people, workers above all, unemployed with family burdens? I think it would be interesting if you told us. We agree to start and implement effective public policies so that we can move forward without inequalities. We don't want inequalities. We want to charge the same, we want to work the same, and we want to reconcile the same. We do not want the inequalities that still exist. And aid for this reconciliation must be guaranteed in the different circumstances, different existing families. We must take this into account, we must think about the present, but especially in the future, and address the existing gaps that exist. The maternity and paternity leave presented by our party, the Socialist Party in Madrid, within the framework of proposals, puts and wants to launch an increase in maternity and paternity leave, from eighteen current weeks to twenty-six weeks. Untransferable maternity leave will be extended from six to eight weeks. These are policies that can help women's equality. These are indeed political. Then they tell us we don't represent. We also equate paternity leave, which will be eight weeks, non-transferable. You'll enjoy them... The remaining 10 weeks will be optional between parents. So, we started to equate. We are working on the equalization and the needs of a citizen, a society that is still suffering from significant inequalities. We call for measures to facilitate the reconciliation and care of minors and dependent persons. Also in private enterprise, with social partners, one must work and agree. There must be agreements in collective bargaining that promote conciliation and co-responsibility measures in private enterprise, and we call for a willingness to start taking steps to reverse this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Madame Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. The new house, as the lady said, the deal, the compromise will... In order to get a settlement, both parties must leave something behind, and this is what they always forget when they make a deal. Deals, but mine, always mine. And that's what happened in that little room over there. And that's why we finally signed the middle-class signed up byUPyD, PPk and my party. That's why it's your fault, ask the others. Even about the wills. It's just that I don't feel like it... You have spoken of birds, the red joke of the eucalypine, which we believe to be beautiful. I have another pretty phrase about birds, which I often use: Slings black ass. I often use yours besides. Always asking others for commitments, yes, yes, yes, but when they are always criticizing you: "What has EAJ done? What did you do in the hall of love and fatherhood? "So many things which have hitherto been done will be added to the future. And in a short time we have a bill of law to discuss among all of us in this legislature. But what does Collect do when he rules? Now you'll forget it. Jo, no, it's true. Commit messages? Zero. Klaro, you too have governed him, and have spoken to him in the great assemblies of Gipulia. In the 19th of May 2014, the Basque Socialists presented a proposal of resolution: "To make an inquiry in four months' time, to examine the consequences of fatherhood and motherhood, under the works of Gipulian workers." Having been so much born in the course of the investigations, it was strange to collect together with the Arlar, that he made a full correction. And in this full correction, there are zero patater pilots of study or project. There was not one of them to ask, not one. Other things, but nothing on the test and the project. If we accept the full correction and agree to accept a resolution from the Supreme Council to do something to the Indulition, we must state what has been done about this resolution by a report. And, well, that report's never done before. 2014. about what has been requested in the year, in a subject of parenthood, so that it contains zero patater. And then, in the Forun Rule of Equality of Gipulia Fordicity, it is also accepted by Collectors, in which case zero patater in the field of motherhood and paternity. So, what are you talking about? What are you talking about? Mrs. Fresno said we were afraid to do a pilot project. It's not fear, it's not fear. It's to be consistent. Because Mrs. Etxeberria said, "No, we're just marking the direction." What's the address, no. With this pilot project what is done is to say what are the steps we will take, one after the other and after the other, when there are a lot of options about it. Yes, yes, yes! And we believe that those who have to decide which project is going to be made or not, and in which direction, are responsible for making such decisions. Because depending on what is decided that the Icelandic model is the best? Which, by the way, is not paid a hundred percent in Icelandic. Then it's not fear. We are consistent, and we know what the form is and what the mode is. And that's where our amendment came from. I repeat again, as I said in the first place, that we have a very broad legal area, it is totally open, for what is happening in Madrid, for what we have in our hands here in Parliament... Then we're not going to condition it. What we have to be is effective and realistic, and if we can, what we want, also progressive. Because what we all want and all here is equality. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH and the Middle Amendment signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. Wait, wait, wait!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u75	...I'd like to have it in full euphora.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u76	That's right. But you know, like me, that this paper has been delivered an hour and a half. The translators are working on fire, but they don't reach for the vote. So, we'll postpone the vote? Or do you have to vote? Don't you understand? Or what's the problem? [[Berber]] It's all a matter of circumstance. It's all a matter of circumstance. I understand you need the text to rest. So you want me to stop the vote until the text comes? [[Berber]] All right. We wait until the text arrives, because it has the right to hold it in two languages. [[Berber]] In the meantime, I'll read an institutional statement. We have two. The institutional expression on the sahara. " 40 days when the Democratic Arabs of the Sahaara Republic were proclaimed. On the anniversary of the year, the Eusunian law, by the members of the legal team, and other institutions will be found in the ceremonies organized by the Saharar government in February 27th, Dajla (in the territories of the refugees of Erinf.). "That is why, and as in others, the Chamber has decided to approve this institutional expression, and to make it appear in public, once again to reveal its commitment to the freedom of the people of Sacca. "That's why we say that Fronte Polissary is the legitimate and sole representative of the people of Saharar, the United Nations and the international community. "We remember that the land of Western Sahara is a non-autonomous territory subject to international law, and that it has never been of the Kingdom of Morocco, and therefore we demand that it may end with an illegal occupation and the right of self-determining the people of Sahara. "We demand that the Kingdom of Morocco be executed immediately by the deliverance of the political and conscious prisoners of Saharar, and that they may end in the prisons which govern the rapes of human rights, by securing the physical and psychic integrity of the prisoners. "We urge the United Nations to promote without further delay the just and definitive settlement of the conflict in Western Sahara, a solution that will put into practice the right of self-determination of the Saharawi people through the holding of the referendum. "We denounce the Government of Morocco's expoliation of natural resources in Western Sahara, and demand that companies operating in the area respect international law and the rights of the Saharawi population. "We consider it necessary, in view of the grave situation in Western Sahara, that the Minurso expand its functions and tasks. We therefore urge the United Nations to empower the mission to monitor and safeguard the human rights of the Saharawi population in the occupied territories. "In the same way, we ask the Spanish Government: "Let him grant it to the kingdom of Morocco to respect human rights strictly in the occupied territory of the Western Sahara and end the privileges which the population of Saharar bears. He demands also that the European Union should act actively in order to extend and support the sphere of business, and also to secure and support the rights of human rights in the Western Sahara. "Let him give a diplomatic state to the Spanish delegation of Front Polisarius, the sole legitimate representative of the people of Saharar, who has confessed to the United Nations. Even let the OSAD burn it. "Promote the necessary political initiatives aimed at achieving a just and definitive solution, in defence of the legitimate right of the Saharan people to self-determination, through a free and regular referendum, as a final step towards the process of unfinished decolonization. "Priority, as a member of the United Nations Security Council, to issues related to the implementation of the peace plan for Western Sahara and to promote the Minurso's competence in the monitoring of human rights in the area, and to act in the same direction in its participation in the Group of Friends." The second institutional expression, because of the state of the prisoner Mumia Abu-Jamal. "In front of the state of the prisoner Abuk-Jamal, the Basque Parliament approves of this institutional expression: "1. He demands that death be abolished in the United States of America, and in every other part of the planet. "2. Request the reopening of a new trial with all due process guarantees for Mumia Abu-Jamal. "3. Immediately treat Mumia Abu-Jamal with existing new antiviral drugs against hepatitis C, thus complying with the set of principles for the protection of all persons subjected to any form of detention or imprisonment of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. "And 4. This statement will be addressed to the following persons and institutions: President of Pennsylvania, Congress of the United States of America, President of the United States of America, the attorneys of Mumia Abu-Jamala, Parliament of Europe, President of the European Board, and American Embassy of the Spanish State. [[Pause]] We'll continue with the vote and the first vote will be EH Collect, the Basque Socialists signed... And you all need it? Can everyone read it? You all read it? No? Not yet? Well, leave it for later. I'm gonna collect EH and I'm telling you what I'm talking about in the middle line that the Basque Socialists signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 70; 72; supporters 35; the opponents, 37; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u77	So he didn't accept it. Next, Mistto-UPyD, Euskal Populars, and Eunctors, we vote for the middle-line correction that has been signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 70; the votes given, 72; the supporters, 37; the opposites 21; the whites, 0; abstations, 14.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-25.u78	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was fourteen o'clock in the afternoon.
