ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Please, everyone in their positions. First point in theme list: "Pull up the legal proposal of the legislature, the radical strategy of changing the state of people without homes, and the plan of active society on which it is supported, in order to bring them to the legislature immediately. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief physician, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The neglect of society has distinct and crude faces, and among these faces there is a want of living, that is to say, of homeless people, living and sleeping in the streets. We may say that persons without home are the most vulnerable and most injured of the people in the state of neglect. On the other hand, we must remember that the object of the law of the Social Services is to consider these services as right. Nor can we forget that the housing law which we adopted in this Chamber a few months ago is regarded as a subjective right of housing. But, according to EH collect, and considering the numbers we now use on this condition, we are worse than ever, and it is unfortunately a poor chance to form the society of these women and men. However, it is a contradiction in Donostian, on the one hand, that 14,000 units are empty, and that in the same town, two people have no homes in the same city last month. As it is also contradictory and blushing to guarantee by law the right to housing, and to allow at least 1,836 people in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa to be in a situation of serious residential exclusion, including 323 sleep in our streets every day; they sleep in abandoned buildings and vehicles, under bridges, in ATMs or in the squares of our cities and municipalities. Bochornosa is the situation of Bizkaia in general, and that of Ezkerraldea in particular. A situation that EH Bildu has also denounced on more than one occasion, and for which it has also proposed solutions. We are talking about people who not only lack housing, who are already serious, but who also suffer from other kinds of associated problems: health problems, bad experiences after contact with institutions, and personal failures, among others. That is why EH Bildu is clear that with all these women and men we must act in an integral way. That is what we have always proposed and what we have put on the table, and what we are also proposing today. We've got a diagnosis and we know the situation because we've got a lot of data. But the idea looks like it's over, because it's the answer to fun because it's quiet, we haven't seen a move. As we explained by our usual proposal, on November 7, 2014, the initiative of the EH Collect in the monographic meeting of poverty and unemployment, we proposed a large number of proposals. Among them, we sent a specific suggestion to the fun of the houseless people to change their state of state, and asked for a solution to change the reality of people who had no homes. During this period EH collected his first attitude, in order to agree with EAJ, and we agreed exactly. This is what we agreed to: "The American asks you to complete the social armor eupcal system so that in a year you can work with the radical strategy of changing the state of homeless people into the legislature." It's been over a year and the law didn't get anything. That's why we can say that the answer to fun is irresponsible and irresponsible. I don't think it's any more than a parlamentary control. That's why this time EH Collect decided to leave EAJ behind. We don't want to agree with you because you don't want to be interested in this. The answer or proposal that the PNV and the Government have raised, after more than a year, to the problem of people without a home, to the problem of sinogarism, has been null and void in this House. And, although we have been reaching out to the group that supports the government for more than a year, because we considered it extremely urgent and necessary that those 1,836 people who a year ago – and today too – live on the street, or spend the night in shelters or other residential resources, should be attended to, today, ladies and gentlemen, we give up. You have already shown us the degree of commitment: zero. I do not know whether Mrs Arregi will find it enough that Euskadi is the community that offers more places for the homeless, or that when the figures for those without housing are compared we are below average, or that the powers of execution rest with other institutions. Maybe that's enough. That's what we call self-congratulation. You know, it's just, you know, you know, you know, it's like, like, right here in this case, like, 45 of the Social Services law. It's fun to take the leader of the integrated strategy in front of this situation, the leadership, the forensics, the socialists, and the co-ordinately co-ordinately. That's why we don't understand how interested you are. There are possibilities, but there is no compromise, and what EAJ proposes this time is of no importance to us; "AJkMY asks you to change the condition of the homeless people before the end of the year, a report about the management condition of the integral strategy." This is not the time to examine the reports. This year, this winter, we want the initiative and the solutions. Maybe it's not like the data we've got up to now, it's some of them: Six of 10 people who live in the streets have been robbed or attacked, and some have suffered more than once. Half 6% of them have a permanent job, but they're a poor salary. 40% of the people living on the street had been a real job before they were homeless. It is clear what is the effect of the pretor of employment: to be left without a house. 25% have no family or friends support, they live alone. What is the consequence in this case? Falling into depression. 15% have a chronic disease, in some cases they are mental disorders, and %1 has no health cards. These numbers were removed from an investigation made by the SIIS, Documentation, and Research Center. There are many more data to talk and to study calmly, but we've had more than a year for that, you've had it. There are enough counts, there is no need to invest any more extra effort or human and economic resources to know this situation. Field studies and this type of research are absolutely necessary, especially if they are carried out with agents from the third social sector, but that is what we already have. The last one, published two years ago. That is why we believe that action must be taken. We have to end sinogarism, and do so in an integral way. Because all those numbers and percentages have a face, a name and a name. They are those people who sleep in the portico of the church of our municipality, they are the owners of the cardboards with which we stumble when we go to an ATM to draw money. And these women and men need us to guarantee them decent accommodation, but we also need to act in the field of prevention. It is necessary that we take into account both those who do not have a roof because they have been evicted and those who are in a travelling situation and plan to leave, for example, a health resource or a prison. It is imperative that these men and women do not fall into a loop, into a spiral from which they cannot get out. That's the way forward. The solution is no longer to be studied, no more data or reports; it is time to take concrete action. On the other hand, we can't finish without saying something about the Inclusion Plan. During our intervention we have distinguished the law of remuneration and socialization, but we must remember that this law has two legs: the one which measures the revenues of the revenue, and the other which receives the actions of socializing. In this case, we have to report again that the strategy of socializing has left unskilled. The third one in 2012-2016. The Inclution Plan is available to set up the various initiatives, but it's just fun that's not worth re-opening that Inclosion Plan. In this case, too, another goal has remained unfinished. So, if we really want to change the situation of people without homes, we can't stay only in the measures of endurance, because we have to set up the actions of their socialization. The first goal is as important as the second. Therefore, let us think again of a comprehensive approach, which contains actions and assistance, but also prevention, to avoid residential exclusion. We plan solutions and measures for these people to integrate into society, so that society is truly cohesive. Let us implement a participatory strategy, based on fundamental rights such as access to housing; a practical strategy, with realistic, achievable and time-bound objectives. That's exactly what we're asking for today. In this case, we have agreed with the Socialist Group, a medium, which contains three points: In the first place, we are accused again of not having completed a parlamental command, namely, the radical strategy of modifying the state of homeless people with the new 21st and strategy of an active socialization. Resolutions supported in the monographic discussion of November 7th. In the second point, we urge the Government to work with the relevant institutions, the social partners and the third sector, so that they can at last draw up this much-needed plan, this comprehensive strategy to change the situation of homeless people. We also ask you to do so this time within three months. They're not gonna have a year anymore, because they've already had it. All this to care for and integrate these people in all areas of their lives. And finally, at the third point, we're asking him to fill up all the other resolutions approved in the monographic discussion we've mentioned in the Basque Act. We hope that the groups that don't sign with us protect this medium, because we think it's perfectly acceptable and useful. Too much lady, we've chosen other companions today because we think you deserve no other alternative in this case. We held out our hand to you more than a year ago, but today we take it from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs. Sarasa, representative of the Basque Socialists, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u3	Egun where we're supposed to be. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. The most extreme face of social exclusion is homelessness or residential exclusion; people who do not have access to accommodation, and are therefore engaged in living on the street or in temporary accommodation of public ownership or government agencies. In March 2015, the second study on the situation of persons in a situation of severe residential exclusion in the CAPV, referring to the year 2014, was released. It was developed with the participation of various municipalities, outlaws and Basque Government, and various social entities. This study reflects the current reality of homeless people in the main population centres of our autonomous community. The reality is that in Euskadi there are 1,836 homeless people, in 2014 data (297 in Álava, 904 in Bizkaia and 635 in Gipuzkoa), of which 323 were located spending the night in the street. Evidence of the need and opportunity to establish a strategy to eradicate sinogarism in Euskadi. It must be done in a consensual and coordinated manner between the different public administrations and the social actors involved in this field. A comprehensive policy of care for the homeless should be established on the basis of a consensual diagnosis. This proposal also coincides with resolutions 21 and 23 of the full monograph on poverty and unemployment of 7 November of the Basque Parliament, which today are not being complied with. Also since the Bizkaia General Councils, the Basque Government was urged in June 2014 on a line very similar to the resolution adopted in Parliament. I must also say that work has also begun at the state level to develop a national strategy to eradicate Sinogarism, following the mandate of the National Social Inclusion Plan. Also in 2010 the European Parliament approved a proposal to end sinogarism. The adopted declaration calls on the European Commission to develop an ambitious strategy to address the situation of the homeless, and to help Member States to do likewise in line with the guidelines of the Joint Report on Social Protection and Social Inclusion, adopted in March 2010, as part of the EU 2020 strategy, an important challenge that requires comprehensive policies to achieve it. Building on the experiences developed in other countries, and analysing the most up-to-date data on homeless people in Euskadi, we are faced with a good opportunity, counselor, if there is political will to do so, because we have functioning resources that can be of help, such as Lanbide and Etxebide, and instruments to combat social exclusion. We have the 2008 Social Services Act, December 5th. We have the decree of 6 October 2015, which regulates the portfolio of services and services of the Basque System of Social Services, as well as the requirements, criteria and procedures for access to their services and services, which gives content and limits the subjective right proclaimed in the Law on Social Services, while laying down the obligations of Basque public administrations. We have the strategic plan and the map of the social services of the Basque Autonomous Community. We also have Law 18/2008, for Income Guarantee and for Social Inclusion. And we also have a third active inclusion plan, which should have been the main instrument for developing inclusion in Euskadi and which you have renounced to develop, and you have already announced a reworking of this plan that you have not done either. And we also have Lanbide's Strategic Plan 2013-2016, and the recent Housing Act, passed in this Parliament. In addition, we have an important social fabric that has made progress in the fight against social exclusion. It is clear to the Socialists that in order to provide adequate attention to the homeless and to eliminate sinogarism, a well-developed strategy is needed, and it is up to the Basque Government, specifically the Department of Employment and Social Policy, to lead this work. But it is obvious that outside parliaments, Eudel and the third social sector, and the people affected by this situation must also participate. On the basis of the above, we drafted our amendment, that of the Socialist Group, which we have finally had sex with the EH Bildu Group and which, of course, coincides with the amendments also tabled by the Basque and UPyD Group. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist group, you said or urged the Government to submit before the end of 2015 a report on the situation in which the management of the comprehensive strategy to change the situation of the homeless is located. 2015 is over. The government and the councilman himself could have asked, at his own request, for an appearance in this Parliament, and we are also aware that they have already spoken to the SIS so that, very soon, I think, they will begin to draw up this strategy. But this Government has shown that it has not had too much ambition in this area since the resolutions were adopted in that 2007 monographic plenary. So let us hope that today we will take this agreement forward, that all the groups in this House will work together, and that we will take seriously a social reality that is, of course, for us the hardest face of social exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Euscalal Group Representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. We had a monographic Pleno on the 26th of May 2014 which the government had to develop to prevent unemployment and poverty. In this respect, some particular proposals were to be directed by the Government, and I shall more particularly mention two, because they have come to this discussion: the one strategy is an integral strategy of the radical change in the state of people without homes, and the second is the new plan and strategy for the active socialization. In the monograph held on 26 May 2014 on measures to address unemployment and poverty, a number of motions for resolutions were adopted at the request of almost all groups represented in this House. But if a week ago this group was asking the Government – in an appeal to the lehendakari who finally answered the Government's adviser and spokesman, Mr Erkoreka – about the implementation of the legislative timetable and the commitments made on this issue, today we also have to say that we are witnessing a further non-compliance by the Basque Government with agreed resolution proposals on an important issue, such as alleviating situations of need, arbitrating measures for those who are in a situation of particular vulnerability, and especially those who are homeless, and above all an active inclusion plan, an active inclusion strategy to give these people an opportunity. It is therefore another area in which we clearly see that the Government has fallen asleep, and where the passiveness of this Government is noted. That is why, through our amendment tabled, which has been included in the amendment referred to by the previous speakers, we proposed that, since the resolutions adopted had not been implemented and had already spent a prudent time since the debate on this specific plan to tackle unemployment and poverty, we considered it appropriate to give this Government a new ear-drop and remind it that there is a mandate in the Basque Parliament, where a number of proposals are made, of agreements on specific issues in this area, which have not yet been implemented. That is why we have urged the Government to implement the resolutions adopted in this debate on the comprehensive strategy to be developed by the Government to tackle unemployment and poverty, and also to inform the Basque Parliament of the degree of compliance with it. Obviously, since the resolutions that we have adopted have not been complied with, it has not been possible to account for them in the Basque Parliament, but, of course, this would not be..., perhaps it could go a little further unnoticed if we were not at the end of the parliamentary term, but, seeing that we are at the end of the parliamentary term, that these plans have not been adopted and that we do not know anything about the implementation of other measures contained in this specific plan, because we undoubtedly consider the situation to be somewhat worrying, and therefore the desirability of a new mandate in this Parliament today, in which the Basque Government is entrusted to comply with the agreed resolutions. That's why the UFC is asking everybody to do it. We've suggested that the idle and poverty-recorded choices on the monographic debatograph of their performances are to be completed. Poverty and social exclusion, of course, are serious situations, as we also highlighted in the debate, which affect the dignity and well-being of people. When poverty levels rise, inequalities increase, and, of course, the income of families decreases, and this has been one of the main consequences of the economic crisis that we have experienced and that we can now clearly say that we are back in that economic crisis, although there are certainly many situations to be faced. Hence we say that poverty and social exclusiveness are serious and have a definite influence on the welfare of men, and have been a remarkable consequence of the economic crisis we have suffered. But the economic crisis has not affected all people alike, and it has particularly hit people who were in an economic situation of social exclusion, people who were in a situation of special vulnerability. And poverty has also been specifically aggravated in some sectors that have to do with those most vulnerable groups and that have made the poor poorer, and they have appeared, or severe forms of poverty that existed have become acute. It must also be said that poverty is closely linked to certain risk groups, such as women, young people, long-term unemployed, or the issue of child poverty, which had a very specific section in the debate and in the motions for resolutions we adopted on this issue. We are also talking, therefore, about people who have difficulty accessing the labour market and having minimal income. We have to say that the Basque system of protection has contributed and in fact helps to alleviate and reduce the situations of exclusion, guaranteeing vital minimums to those collectives who are in a special situation of vulnerability, but we also believe that the system... Then we're going to have another initiative that highlights Lanbide's flawed functioning in many ways, but we believe, as I said, that this system is likely to improve. And there is a need to improve, in relation to the issue before us, aspects that have to do with progress in preventing and detecting these situations, with a system of alerts that allows people to be detected in situations of particular difficulty and at risk of exclusion, ensuring that the people who really need it are in the system. And we have seen that this is sometimes not the case, and that is why all measures must be strengthened precisely to ensure that the system is fair and supportive, and that the people who really need it are in the system. And another of the fundamental aspects that has to do with this employment inclusion strategy is the socio-occupational reintegration of these people. Therefore, the public authorities and the Basque Government have an obligation to take concrete measures on factors that directly affect the alleviation or reduction of poverty and social exclusion rates, and we, of course, advocate the need to develop, to implement comprehensive policies. When we talk about homeless people we are talking about people who don't have the vital minimums covered, and that is why we have to emphasize everything that has to do with guaranteeing their food, education, housing, health... In this regard, I would like to bring to this debate the reference of the National Comprehensive Strategy for Homeless Persons approved by the Government of Spain for 2015-2020, which is precisely what it seeks to give an integral response, with an integral framework of action, to these people. I think it is a very interesting document, and precisely as there has been specific legislation in this area by the Government of Spain, and seeing that the Basque Government has not done its duties today, I think, can be an important reference. I believe that it is also a document that is the result of a broad consensus, and it stops in all the aspects that can be addressed and that can affect the improvement of the situation of the homeless, also with an analysis of the most affected groups, so it said: because in the end the homeless constitute the face of social exclusion, and the most visible. But the goal not only has to be to reduce the homeless and assist them, but they can reintegrate into society and have a chance. And that's where I think it's important to reintegrate these people into society. And we don't have to settle for the coverage of their vital needs (which, on the other hand, is not much) and the receipt of a subsidy, but we have to give these people the opportunity to access employability. Hence the focus on active inclusion and socio-occupational inclusion of the most vulnerable. That is why we support the development of inclusive labour policies for groups with special socio-laboral integration difficulties, and we understand that there is much room for improvement in the instruments we have in Lanbide. We understand that the compromise that has been signed reflects our demand that the resolutions be complied with, and in that regard we will vote in favour. And we hope that once and for all the Basque Government will put the batteries in a new non-compliance, and sooner rather than later we will see those strategies that have not yet been developed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Missto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u7	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari, good morning. The truth is that I believe that we have shown that during all these years UPyD has always been sensitive to those citizens in the worst economic and social situation, those citizens who are victims of social exclusion. We have always observed with special attention the situation in which people who are unemployed, people with low wages, people who suffer from job insecurity, people who are in poverty, people who have been and today continue to be victims of bank abuse, people who have been victims of evictions all these years, and of course we have also always been sensitive and attentive to the situation in which homeless people find themselves. We have followed this reality closely, and we have been attentive to the various reports and studies that have dealt with these matters. And, as it could not otherwise be in an opposition group, we have also been alert to what this Government has been doing, and we have analysed in depth whether what it has been doing has been enough or not, and whether this Government can actually do more than it has been doing so far. Also in the Congress of Deputies, where repeatedly, for example, we have been asking the Government for a plan to combat child poverty. It is, therefore, a question of observing reality and being sensitive to the suffering of thousands of people. And in this particular case, as it could not be otherwise, we are extremely concerned about the number of homeless people living in Euskadi. Over the past few months there has been news about the situation of these people, and we have read different news. We have read that the number of homeless people does not grow in Euskadi, despite the increase in poverty, but that it is nevertheless maintained. We read that in 2014 there were 1,513 people sleeping in shelters and apartments, and another 323 were on the street, figures similar to two years ago. We have read that the average income of the homeless in Euskadi is EUR 370.6 per month; that only 18.4% of this group receives income guarantee income, 13.3% receives a pension for invalidity, retirement or widowhood, and 3.6% for unemployment. The Bizitegi Association recently launched the "No roof, with rights" campaign, to raise awareness of the more than three hundred people who sleep on the street every day in Euskadi. An unbearable and unacceptable reality, at least for the opposition political groups in this Parliament. Recently we have also read that they found two indigent people dead on the Boulevard de San Sebastián, a news that also drew our attention to this palpable reality. And we have read that the profile of the Synthesis in Euskadi is as follows: male, foreigner and without family ties. More than 1,800 people lack a home in the Basque Country; of them, 323 sleep on the street, despite the increase in places in the hostels. All of this makes us think that this Government has indeed not done everything in its power to deal with this situation. We have also observed a reality that is certainly unacceptable: four out of ten people in the street have been insulted and threatened, and two out of ten have been assaulted. Faced with these facts, we cannot, of course, stand idly by. I believe that the opposition in this Parliament over all these years has not been held up, and it is also clear that this government has not done enough to deal with this situation. And this is what the EH Bildu Group is proposing in today's debate: it draws attention to two motions for resolutions that were adopted in the monographic plenary on 7 November 2014, and proposes to urge the Government to take these motions for resolutions into account and can be adopted as soon as possible. The various groups have put forward similar proposals: insisting that this Government does not effectively fulfil parliamentary mandates, and in particular does not fulfil these parliamentary mandates adopted on November 2014. The question, therefore, is: What is the Basque Government doing? Is everything the Basque Government does enough? Obviously not. Can the Basque Government do more, taking into account the economic situation in the Basque Country and the economic resources at our disposal? We think, no doubt, yes. As I say, a good number of motions for resolutions were adopted in that monographic plenary on 7 November 2014. Some were from UPyD, others were from other parliamentary groups. And the truth is that, once we have asked the Government about the fulfilment of that or those parliamentary mandates, the conclusion we draw is that this Government does not actually meet the vast majority of those motions for resolutions that were adopted in that monographic plenary. Of the 55 resolutions adopted, according to the response of the Basque Government, 19 of them are working or have been implemented. This makes it clear that they have no real intention of fulfilling them, and that they again incur a clear breach of parliamentary mandates. Finally, we are repeatedly told that Euskadi is doing well, and that the problems that exist are less serious than those in the rest of Spain; that we have good health, good education and a good system of social protection. Part of this may be true (actually, the economic situation in Euskadi may be better than the economic situation in the rest of the autonomous communities), but this does not mean that there are no problems to be solved. And there are them, and there are many, and therefore our mission is to draw attention to all of them. Despite the fact that Euskadi enjoys a better economic situation than most of the Spanish autonomous communities, there are people who suffer daily from the lack of income, job insecurity, unemployment, low wages, poverty in its different versions (children, energy) and also the lack of decent housing. There are people in Euskadi who live on the street, and this, in our view, is absolutely unacceptable. We need a government sensitive to these facts, which has the political will to resolve them. We don't have it today. It has been perfectly demonstrated that this Government is a government that does not have the political will to resolve these issues, because it is not sensitive to this reality, which, by the way, often denies. But that we do not have a sensible government with political will does not mean that this Parliament should stand by. On the contrary, if we have an insensitive government, we have to prove that the majority of this Parliament is sensitive. And indeed this Parliament is sensitive, it has political will, it has proposals, it has ideas, and it also thinks that this Government has sufficient resources to deal with this whole reality. I share what the various speakers who have spoken have said, and I also share the compromise that has finally been signed. It is normal that we call today for this Government to do more than it has been doing. It is normal for this Parliament today to complain that the Basque Government has again failed to fulfil a parliamentary mandate. Not only those resolutions 21 and 23 that we are dealing with today, but most of the resolutions adopted in that monographic plenary. It is therefore normal for this Parliament to urge the Government to forward to Parliament within three months a comprehensive strategy to change the situation of the homeless, in order to ensure processes of social integration and comprehensive care for the homeless in all spheres of life. It is normal for this Parliament to say all this. We will see again the response of the Basque Nationalist Party and the response of the Basque Government, but in any case we cannot maintain the same feeling or attitude that this Government has. We are sensitive to this situation, and it is therefore normal for this transactional to be supported. And that the Government should also be urged to implement the remaining resolutions adopted in the monograph to address unemployment and poverty of 7 November 2014. That is to say, we welcome a full monograph of these characteristics, which is so important; we debate in depth what the Government should do to deal with this situation; we adopt a series of motions for resolutions, through dialogues and discussions between the various groups, and it turns out that months later, more than a year later, we see that the Government does not assume that need to fulfil that parliamentary mandate. Anyway. Therefore, sensitivity to these events, a new call for attention to this Government, and a strong denunciation of its refusal to fulfil parliamentary mandates.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. This time we propose another question concerning the state of people without homes. We've talked a lot about people in a bad situation at Parliament. We had a monographic pleno on November 7, 2014, in order to face unemployment and poverty, and there, as has been shown, it was asked to develop into an integrated strategy of people without homes. I shall not read them literally, because before you all, if you will, you will consult them, and other representatives have read their resolutions. After all, the integrated strategy of changing the state of people without homes and a new plan and strategy of active socialization is required. For a year it was given to you to present the new strategy in the parliament, that it should be finished at the end of November. And it didn't stop. He's been working on a new strategy for the last year. He's taken the steps I'm going to explain to you to develop the entire plan of people who don't have a home. The first important milestone is the negotiation and final approval of Decree 185/2015 on a portfolio of social services and services of the Basque System of Social Services, which makes it possible to clarify the content and profile of the users of the different services and services targeted at people at risk of exclusion. In addition, the second count of people in a situation of serious residential exclusion has been carried out, which is important in order to have an up-to-date knowledge of the situation. Also, in addition to the three capitals, this count has been made in seven other municipalities, as has also been said: five in Bizkaia (Barakaldo, Getxo, Portugalete, Santurtzi and Sestao), one in Arabica (Laudio) and one in Gipuzkoa (Irun). In terms of population as a whole, they represent 52.80 % of the total population resident in the CAPV in 2014. In addition, the second Days on Serious Residential Exclusion were held at the CAPV, at which the results of the report were presented and the content of a future comprehensive strategy for caring for the homeless in Euskadi was analysed with other institutions and other social actors, as called for by the different spokespersons. There is no doubt that any planning tool in the field of homelessness and serious residential exclusion must have an inter-institutional and multidimensional character. The role of social services, in terms of the impetus and leadership of this strategy, is evident, as reflected in article 6 of Act No. 12/2008 on Social Services. One of the aims of the Basque system of social services is to prevent and respond to situations of exclusion and to promote the social integration of individuals, families and groups, which makes it desirable to consider this strategy as a sectoral plan for social services, as set out in article 37 of Law 12/2008. We understand this strategy as a complement and development of the CAV's Strategic Social Services Plan, that is, sectoral planning of inter-agency and multidimensional social services. We cannot forget that the territorial maps have not yet been approved, that the three outlying parliaments are at the moment giving shape to them, a matter which is also being studied within Eudel and which, in our view, is essential in order to make further progress in the comprehensive strategy for the homeless. It is on these maps that the location of devices and services for the homeless will be specified. It is important that the strategy is rooted in a consolidated reality, if it is to be a really useful and effective document, and not a report on a shelf. There will be two very distinct parts of it: The diagnosis on the one hand, and the measures to be developed on the other. In the diagnostic phase, the following sections have been analysed: analysis of the normative framework, intervention plans and international trends developed in the field of inclusion and care policies for the homeless. A quantitative and qualitative diagnosis has been carried out in relation to the situation of the homeless in Euskadi and the functioning of the care network. This has resulted in a basic diagnostic report summarizing the previous documents and reflecting the main needs and demands to be met by a possible strategy for care for the homeless. Diagnostic reports have been reviewed by the decades of other countries, quantum and quantum diagnosis. So if we have a strong basis for making it an integrated strategy to change the state of people without homes. That's why we're asking you to send us to the legislature in our corrections before the end of 2015 years of the entire housing strategy of the homeless management conditions. There is no doubt that the Social Services Portfolio Decree has been a very important and essential milestone in the consolidation of the Basque social services system. We understand that the comprehensive strategy for the homeless must be fully integrated into the system, obviously with its particularities. Until the portfolio decree was adopted, it has not been possible to advance as much as the department would have liked in the elaboration of the strategic plan for the homeless, because the attention to them, we insist, must be perfectly coupled with the rest of the services of the social services system. And they are still waiting to define the territorial maps by the outlaws, where the municipalities also have a lot to say and contribute. In our view, their determination is essential in order to be able to provide a comprehensive response to the homeless. It is true that the whole strategy is not finished, but it is true, that the Government has been working, collecting data, and studying the situations of other countries, in order to give the best possible attention to people who are homeless. Let's stay with positive data: There's a decree from the company's eucalyptus system of social services and service bags. We are not the mantic of opposition, when he says that the Government is stationary, that want of will is evident, we have even heard that we are not unreasonable. You can repeat as much as you like, but what is not true will not be true for repetition every day. The whole social strategy of homeless people working with other organizations and societies to bring them back, no doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u11	Thanks again. Mrs Arregi told us about the accounts (yes, we have already said that they were already done), she told us about organized days (or requested, we believe, by the Beste Bi platform, if we are not mistaken), of the portfolio decree, of the diagnosis (it is already done)... Well, the diagnosis is done, but if then nothing is done with that data, then the diagnoses are of little use. From what I understand, then what you are trying to do is wait for the social services map to be ready so that further progress can be made? Should we wait until the social services map is ready? So we do not understand why you signed this resolution with us in November in the full monograph, when you asked the Government to bring that plan in a year. We don't understand. What you put forward in your amendment as a whole could have resulted perfectly in an oral question to the adviser in the plenary. And oral questions and initiatives we have asked a few, and we have brought this proposal because we have come to the point that we have said that we are no longer going to wait another month. That is why we have brought this proposal. And when you talk about the... What we want is for all the proposals and measures contained in the Income Guarantee Act to be carried out. And when you talk about the Social Services Act, we have also talked about that here what is needed is comprehensive attention. Because, look, nobody stays on the street without a house from day to day because they take the suitcase. There are a lot of causes, there are a lot of factors, and it's not just a housing solution, which is also, and it's the fundamental thing, but it's that we need many more measures. We have to see if these people who have a chronic disease need the medication or have the adherence to the necessary treatment, if they have mental illness, if they are alone, if they are accompanied or accompanied... You have to look at all that, if you are really making a strategy for these people to reintegrate into society. And we say again that in the end, what needs to be done is prevention work, prevention work with regard to potentially destitute people and with people who are also in other resources (health resources, prison facilities). But what are we going to expect from the Basque Nationalist Party, if last January, when two people died in Donostia, they hurried out to the media to say that one of them had died of choking (it is not going to be that we went up the middle), and the other had died of natural death! With a person who lives on the street, who sleeps on the street under zero, who doesn't know how she's fed, who doesn't know what she's surviving with or surviving, if she's taking the medication she needs, and she dies, is that a natural death for you? For EH Bildu no. It's a death from multiple factors. We don't want any more plans, we don't want any more statistics. From time to time it is necessary to do them, but we already have enough. Nor do we want them to come up with a nice plan to get into a drawer, because that's no use at all. You've admitted it, too. We don't want a plan with an English name and a horizon, which we're used to seeing. We don't want a "Think homeless 2020", nor a "Home for everyone 2025". We want a plan that reaches everyone, and that when the next count is made and the next study the data is inferior to what we have today. I'm going to have to get something in three months' time. When they want it, they know better than they do when they want it. Plans, strategys, protocol. We often see him on the board when he's interested in fun and he finds the right place and the right time for making and selling their plans. We'll see what it'll be like to have a funk and a plan. In conclusion, we will only tell you that we are fully identified with statements by Mr Aburto, Mayor of Bilbao and former Councillor for Social Policy and Housing. And we mention him because we do not expressly know what Mr Toña thinks. Mr. Aborto a few months ago made sure it would be a failure for someone with no resources to die on the street. We, like Mr Aburto, recognize the failure today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists represent the group. Lady Sarah must not speak. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very short. Today we have again witnessed the tactics of this Government to drain the bundle, to throw balloons out, to spread responsibilities. But the facts that we see again here today are that parliamentary mandates are not being fulfilled, the commitments that this Government acquires are not being implemented. We are talking about two very important strategies, above all to alleviate the situation of the economic crisis and its consequences for people with special vulnerability. In other administrations, other Governments have taken action. The Basque Government has tools. Apart from drawing up concrete plans by agreement of this Parliament, which collects specific mandates and mandates from this Government on two important issues, such as the comprehensive strategy to change the situation of the homeless and the new strategy of active inclusion, apart from, I say, fulfilling parliamentary mandates, you have tools. The transfer of active employment policies should have been an opportunity to directly focus on improving the situation of people in need, people who need training routes to get a job, because that is the ultimate objective of the Basque system of social protection, of course to help people, and, according to the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, to help people with specific benefits: income guarantee income, supplementary housing benefit, social emergency aid (which, by remembering and bringing it up here today, you do not satisfy all needs and it has to be the municipalities that put the necessary amounts to cover the existing demand). I'm saying you guys have tools you're not using. It seems to me enormously significant where the priorities of a government are in a scenario where people are having a bad time, and above all a government that is constantly telling us that people are the priority and the guide to their performance. Then we have plans approved in this House more than a year ago, much more than a year ago (two years ago, it is going to do practically), which contain specific mandates to this Government to improve the situation precisely of those in worse condition, and you have listened deafly to those mandates. So, I think it's worth an apology, a cheap apology. Because, Mrs Arregi, tell me that the decree of portfolio of services and social benefits... Yes, he's arrived when he's arrived, and he's arrived a long time ago. I mean it's an excuse because a little... excuse me, I'd say. I therefore believe that it is enough for the whole package to run away, it is enough to take no responsibility, and it is enough that this Government, once and for all..., it is time, better said, for this Government to assume its responsibilities and commitments, because we see that these plans have not been adopted today in such an important area, which is very significant from the action of this Government and from where the priorities of this Government lie. Look, yeah, the truth is, they don't have it that hard either! In the strategy for the homeless, if you have a strategy drawn up by the Government of Spain, by the Ministry of Health, Social Affairs and Equality, it is quite beneficial! Man, it's not about cutting and sticking, either, but, well, some predictions and some concrete measures, and especially considering that they are designed from an integral point of view and giving it an integral approach, well, they could serve as a source of inspiration. I already know that everything that comes from the Madrid Government causes them a certain allergy, but, well, at least the positive things, and more when this Government has not legislated and has done nothing about it, because I believe that they could be taken into account, when another government is clear that it has done the duties and, of course, has worried about the people who were in this situation, developing a specific strategy for them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u14	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Miss... Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u15	Eskerrik asko berriz ere, president andrea. Donostiako kasu biri buruz hitz egiten egon zara, Blanco andrea, but the truth, I, not wanting to concrete in those cases, that I do not know exactly how and what happened, yes I will tell you that when you ruled in the Town Hall of Donostia you refused to open the winter shelters, even though I had announced a wave of cold. Therefore, the lessons must be given to the right extent and with the data, with all the data. On the other hand, you said that you held out your hand and that you would take it from us today. But I really think it's your most important purpose or the first goal to criticize you, because it's a pity to get rid of that hand because it's a long way, Mrs. Blanco, and because I think people who don't have a home are taking care of us, and I think we're gonna have to keep on working together. I believe that the work of everyone, both the organization and the community, is necessary to give the best solution to this matter. So it's a shame to take that hand off. Mrs Garrido, we must have courage to teach others about whether or not we care about people. Look at the state where they have been ruling for the past four years, with an absolute majority in addition, and look at the situation of the homeless, the situation of social protection in general, etc. And Mr Maneiro I want to say that what I am not going to allow is that he says that the government and the Basque Nationalist Party are not sensitive to the situation of the homeless, because it is not true, and he knows that it is not true. I'm not gonna let that happen. And he was also talking about the refusal to comply with parliamentary orders. Well, neither, nothing further from reality. This group is ready to support the second and third points of the compromise amendment that has been signed and that the rest of the groups have said they will also support. We would not support the first point, in which we are talking about the government's failures once again, the lack of political will... Therefore, if point voting is allowed, the second and third points will also have the support of the Euzko Abertzaleak Group. Therefore, nothing further from the reality than to say that we refuse to comply with the orders of this Parliament, because in addition the motions for resolutions of the November 2014 plenary also had the support of this group. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote for the middle-class correction. Can you vote on points? No. Then we vote in total. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 45; contraries, 26; white, 0; abstaining, 0. (Berbots) Pus que conste en acta como voto a favor, y que se mire las tarjetas a ver qué pass.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u17	Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of the Social Service of the Social Service by the Law made by Social Services of the Eusal Social Service. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, the Basque Socialist representative of the team. In order to defend her initiative, Mrs. Sarasa, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u18	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to this rostrum again to discuss in this case the return of the undue payments of Lanbide, a problem that affects, from January 2013 to November 2015, 25,000 incumbents: 1,312 have dependants, 4,550 are single-parent families, and 16,171 live on rent, of which almost 12 thousand are receiving a supplementary housing benefit. This is the situation of the rightful persons and families affected by the repayments of Lanbide's undue payments. You will recall that in September 2014 Lanbide sent a mass communication indiscriminate and without charge of receipt to the homes of ten thousand persons who received the guarantee income and the supplementary housing benefit, in which he demanded amounts collected improperly and urged them to pay voluntarily, before the start of the investigation of the procedure of reinstatement. These communications did not specify the specific reasons for the undue payments; they only indicated the amount to be returned and the options for debt cancellation, regardless of the particular situation of each of these persons, who are largely at risk of social exclusion and have limited economic resources, and whose only income is precisely social benefits. The Socialists put an oral question to the Lehendakari at the monitoring session on 3 October 2014, which was answered by Mr Aburto, who at that time held the position of Employment and Social Policy Adviser. Mr Aburto acknowledged that they did not intend to make those people feel bad, that they did not intend to make them feel like defrauders; that they merely intended to measure their willingness to pay Lanbide's undue payments. And I think, from then until today, they've had time to measure it. He also acknowledged that they had not done so well, and that they understood the social alarm that had been generated, and that no doubt the massive sending of those letters and the way to communicate had been a mistake that would not be repeated again. But it is repeating itself again. He acknowledged that errors are made because software is not perfect (of course), because procedures cannot foresee each and every different and changing situation of families and people, and because responsible persons are not infallible. Of course. It also acknowledged that there were shortcomings in the telephone system indicated in the letter, and stated that the important thing was to be able to start reversing the situation and that undue payments stopped accumulating. From then until today it has been year and a half. Mr Aborto with these assertions acknowledged that the undue payments were Lanbide's responsibility, and no one can deny that to me. On 6 November 2014, a non-law proposal concerning Lanbide's undue payments was discussed in this House. The Socialists reached a five-point compromise agreement with EH Bildu, which reflected the very consistent approaches presented by the people concerned, who ask nothing but to return those amounts that are justified and that have been unduly paid to them. But please tell Lanbide to be given facilities, taking into account their economic and social situation. And that, as long as... Well, on that occasion the Basque Nationalist group, like the Basque People's Group, voted against it. And as the UPyD group abstained, the initiative fell. On 16 March 2015, representatives of the platform affected by Lanbide appeared in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy to make us part of the problem that is causing them the return of undue payments, and we were transferred through a document the possible solutions they put on the table. On 15 June 2015, the Committee on Employment and Social Policy approved without any vote against the amendment again adopted by my group with EH Bildu, which called on the Basque Government to comply with Article 57 of Decree 147/2010 of the Income Guarantee Income, and to enable the necessary procedures to minimise the effects of such errors, including the monthly social contribution (which could amount to EUR 30), taking into account the request of the person concerned or the report of the basic social services themselves, and taking into account the economic situation of the unit of living, so that families can carry out a dignified life and meet the basic needs. On 24 November 2015, Mr Toña, in response to a written question from my group, assured that they were developing a circular of new conditions for the return of the wrong amounts, using it to contemplate the maximum possibilities to which the units of coexistence can be welcomed, so that the return does not destroy the object of the protection system that the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion, a fact that we know. The Socialists requested the circular, which came to us on 15 December 2015, and it was dated 24 November. But I can assure you that after this date Lanbide continues to send the communication prior to the procedure of return to the private domiciles, enabling the voluntary payment, indicating the revised period but without specifying the exact date, and indicating the amount that is due, but without specifying the details of their calculation or justification. It also makes clear in that communication that if there is no agreement, nothing should be done at that time, and that Lanbide will then contact the person to initiate the administrative procedure of reinstatement, which will be notified on receipt and which will contain detailed information on the possible... , puts "abuse charge." It does not put "inadequate provision"; it puts "abuse collection", when that is incorrect. It is an improper payment in many cases; in some cases it is not the same, but in most cases it is an improper payment. And it will be from that moment on when all appropriate allegations can be made within the set deadlines. These people, Mr. Counsellor, come undefended and quite distressed to the offices of Lanbide of reference – and I know you know this – where they are told that if they do not agree and will not pay voluntarily, then they will wait for the administrative procedure of reinstatement to start to present their claims. When they receive the decision, these persons shall verify that it is identical to the prior communication; that it is limited to indicating only the amount unduly paid between that date and that date, without specifying the details of their calculation, the cause or the specific date, placing the persons concerned again in a position of total and absolute defencelessness, since they cannot know whether what they received monthly corresponded to what was legally theirs. This I have in my possession is a letter that has arrived at a person recently, dated 18/01/2016. Obviously, I have marked the data that is confidential, but this letter I can perfectly teach to anyone in the House, and it shows that what I am reporting coincides with what it puts here. And this letter is from a person who works and supplements his/her income so that he/she can support his/her two children (his/her employment income), and that he/she does not have a single euro left to reach the end of the month. And this person does want to pay, but he wants to access that social fee. I personally had the opportunity, as a representative of the Socialist Group, to refer a lawyer to make the corresponding allegations, because these people are obviously defenceless. He doesn't even know what he's up against. So, I understand that this is an issue that you have to understand: that undue payments exist, that the Administration has an obligation to recover them, but it also has an obligation to know who is being addressed. And I know that you, Mr. Counsellor, know what we are talking about, and you have a will, but this issue has been floating there for a long time and has not been given a solution. That is why we, the Basque Socialist Group, have been forced to bring back a non-legislative proposal to this Parliament, because it is not being complied with in the no-legislative proposal of 15 June, and not even with what is contained in article 57 of Decree 147/2010 of the RGI, which states that the different procedures to be followed prior to the resolution declaring the amount to be improper, including the procedure for prior hearing, must be established. And that's not happening, counselor. The person affected by the return of undue payments of GIR and supplementary benefit must also be informed of the reasons, the amount and the specific period. And that's not happening either, Counselor. Indeed, it is making it easier for affected persons to benefit from a real and effective defence, making the allegations they consider relevant, but many of them are not even aware of what they are facing. Even if they want to file a lawsuit in the administrative litigation from Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa, they are forced to come to Vitoria. And you know that too. The legal deadlines for return are being implemented, but the economic availability and family situation of each of the persons concerned are not being taken into account. And that's very easy to know, that's very easy to know, because Lanbide has all the documentation. Also, in the event that the amount to be reinstated is determined, I say again, the possibility is not being given, for the time being, that such reinstatement is made by means of a social quota (and I am aware, because this letter is dated recently, 18 January 2016), taking into account the economic circumstances of the family unit, and considering that the error is attributable exclusively to Lanbide, counselor. That is why, I say again, we have brought this issue to the debate. I have to say that we have agreed on a compromise proposal, that we have sent to all the groups and that the only one that has answered us was EH Bildu. And it is true that the Nationalist Group has also told us the will to support it, but it is not up to me to say so: it is up to its spokesman, when his speaking time touches him. We would like on this subject to be able to shed light and stenographers and solve it definitively, because there are many people, indeed, who are willing to return that money, which is a lot, but they also have the will to do it according to their economic situation, because obviously there are many people who live from social benefits and from supplements to their income from work. The agreement we have signed, Mr Councillor, urges the Basque Government to comply immediately and without delay with the proposal for a law adopted on 15 June 2015 in the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Housing on mitigating the effects of the wrong payments made by Lanbide. In addition, to ensure that, in accordance with the law in force and taking into account the economic situation of persons and families who have received undue payments from Lanbide, and as long as the procedures relating to their files last, and in order to enable them to lead a dignified life and meet the basic needs, the necessary procedures are immediately and without delay empowered to minimise the effects of the repayments of benefits received unduly, and that this monthly social contribution of EUR 30 is established, so that the persons concerned can benefit, unless they agree with Lanbide to a more favourable interim solution. The Parliament again urges the Government to comply with the remaining points of this non-legislative proposal adopted on 15 June 2015. We also urge the Government to take necessary measures and actions to ensure that undue payments do not continue to occur in Lanbide. And, in particular, it creates a channel of relationship with social actors and platforms of affected and affected to respond immediately and adequately to this and other problems related to the management of Lanbide. For our part, only to say that this is a problem that affects so many people, who are people of specific characteristics, and that we must give them a solution in this House. And, of course, that the Government must commit itself, through its parliamentary group, to the steps it will take from now on. Because I know, Mr. Counsellor, that there are many people who are willing, if necessary, to go to court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u19	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again. Chief department, congressmen. We have discussed this subject at other times, as well as in the whole meeting, as in the committee, on the misdemeanors. We must distinguish clearly what are wrongly paid payments and mismade steps. And bad payments, irregularities, professions come here for bad management. I think there must be a clear distinction, and in this discussion we are speaking of this. This is not the first time we've talked about undue payments, not undue charges. He said that it is important to make the distinction clear: when we talk about undue payments we are talking about irregularities caused by the mismanagement of Lanbide and, therefore, these irregularities are directly attributed to Lanbide, not to undue charges, which are amounts that have not been properly charged and which are irregularities that can be attributed to the recipient of the aid, and in that case we are talking about abusive situations. Therefore, when we talk about undue payments we are talking about irregularities, inefficiencies that come from Lanbide's malfunction and, therefore, they are Lanbide's responsibility, and, as I said, they are clear examples of Lanbide's mismanagement. On the basis of answers to questions put by this group, we have already noted that these amounts are very, very important. We are not talking about laughable amounts; we are talking about amounts reaching around EUR 90 million, I say, according to the official data provided by this Government. Once again, when we talk about undue payments, there is the lack of functioning of Lanbide and, of course, the need to improve the management of Lanbide for the effective fulfilment of its purposes. Of course, we have also noted during numerous debates in this House, not only this one, that the objectives have not been met in relation to the work plan set out in 2013, nor in relation to the Lanbide strategic plan. It is evident that the profession has failed in its management, and that this failure has become apparent again. We believe that when we talk about undue charges, there is once again evidence of Lanbide's failure to manage it, an issue which we have repeatedly denounced from the Group of the European People's Party, and we have also put on the table numerous measures to try to improve this system, especially in view of the huge amount of economic resources allocated for income security income, supplementary housing provision and social emergency aid, which the budget amount in these budgets is EUR 461 million. Therefore, looking at all the debates and making a small summary of the actions of this Government, we see that there has been a manifest inability of this Government to fulfil the purposes entrusted to it by Lanbide. There have been concrete proposals to meet the time limits for resolutions or to decrease. In this initiative today we are talking about undue payments, which, of course, are dossiers that have not been properly resolved. On other occasions we have talked about the rate of intermediation, very low and very far from the objectives, of that 5% which was fixed by the government at the mouth of the previous councillor, Mr Aburto, at 5%. We have also talked about the need to strengthen everything that has to do with training, training routes and the employability of the people in the protection system. I have already said in my first speech this morning that the transfer of active policies should have been an opportunity to improve and connect once and for all the economic benefits provided for in the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion and Employability, and, of course, given what we have seen, we believe that in this respect, which is the primary function of Lanbide, its action has left much to be desired. It is therefore clear that there is a need to improve Lanbide in order to remedy this poor management of public resources, which has been done in specific areas. In relation to the case before us, which, as I say, is a clear example of Lanbide's malfunction, we at the proposed initiative... We have not had the opportunity to participate in the transaction, I have to say that too. We have been given a compromise that has already been drawn up and signed, along the lines of what has already been approved, but we, since it is a parliamentary mandate, are not going to oppose it, especially because we understand that, although we could introduce some nuances, especially in the third paragraph, where we talk about the thirty euros quota, which we also made clear in the two previous debates, in committee and in full, the doubts why a thirty euros quota, why not more or less, but that it would be better to attend to the personal situation of each of the people concerned... But seeing that it is a parliamentary mandate, obviously, and already approved in this House, we are not going to vote against it. "A nsostros nos pairias dos aspectos concretos que son los que reogíamos en nuestra enmia." On the one hand, the U.S.P. is asking you to take measures inside legality, to remove the consequences of wrong-made payments. And on the second point, the Parliament asks the profession to set up the necessary actions, in order that there may not be any more payment for its improper conduct." It is therefore two specific points that we raised in our compromise amendment, which, in some way, we understand, in nuances, are reflected in the compromise amendment, which is that measures should be taken within the existing legal framework to mitigate the effects of the wrong payments made by Lanbide, with the aim of enabling flexible payment splitting procedures, to minimise these errors which are attributable to Lanbide and are the responsibility of Lanbide and which have obviously had to suffer specific people passing through it, in some way, and also to take the necessary steps to ensure that there are no further undue payments caused by malfunctioning. I think this is also an important issue, because we have to go to the root of the problem and see why Lanbide has deficits in its functioning. We understand that there are clearly improved aspects, and therefore, and I announce from this rostrum, we will also continue to propose initiatives that try to improve Lanbide's functioning, and above all to ensure that it meets, once and for all, the objectives entrusted to it in accordance with the current law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u21	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Arrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u22	Good morning, everyone. As has been said of those who have spoken before, the subject is not new; In October 2014, sending letters to the thousands of people who have been sent to guarantee their incomes since the occupation began, many months have passed since their return. A lot of months using improper procedures, without doing exactly what you asked me to do. And consequently, because the demand has not been fulfilled, many have been injured at the present day. We cannot forget, as has been said, that these persons have been treated more than once as if they were a cheat, when the source of the question is in the wrong management of the profession, and has been. Too many months without repairing all this. It has to be considered and it must be that the crisis has greatly increased the number of people who have had to rent their income to guarantee the income. And, as I have said, these people have not often been treated with dignity necessary. In May 2014, and time has already passed, the strategic plan of the profession, it has been discussed here before, on the committee we discussed. And there, EH collect made several proposals, because he was worried, and then there were still letters not sent. And of these two at least were accepted, and these were these. Let him maintain and guard the proper attention to the revenue collectors to secure the revenues of the revenue; and he will preserve and respect the hubitape, the guarantee, the continuation of the proceedings, or the guilt of innocence by severity. And the second, in order to complete the records of the profession in time and time, and to be a day after, to set up and strengthen the means to secure attention and assistance to those who have particular difficulties. I also wanted to mention this second, because I believe that he has often said that he has been the representative of the Socialist Party in order to update procedures and files, and so on, there is a great number of people here who have no opportunity to do so, and who have difficulty in doing so. And I believe that by the Administration, in this case, we should be indispensable. From our point of view, this has not been fulfilled, it has not been fulfilled at its moment. And the scene of the damaged platform, as has been previously discussed, was held in March 2015, and after this, after the proposal they had made, and from a starting point, our party presented a proposition of the same nature as our party. And besides, we were planning a process that would return money by the bad management of the profession. Because a lot of people are in trouble to pay back, because they don't guarantee the minimum conditions, and even less if they're asked for 30% or 100 percent that I don't know how much to translate. The bill adopted in June 2015 called on the Government to address a number of issues that are important to remember, and some of them have already been recalled. The first is that we had to ensure, Lanbide has to ensure that it has the material and human resources, and on this issue we have also spoken in this long and extended Parliament about the employment relationship and all its development. Question in which to this day there is a half resolved part, but not entirely and in its entirety. The second point was to comply with the rules on procedures for hearing, time limits, arguments, reasons, reasons which are required of them for the refund of the quantities. And lastly, here we have basically talked about setting a social quota of EUR 30, but it was said more than that in that proposal for a law. This proposed law called for suspension of payment until a better time, postponement of the refund of amounts, or setting a social contribution of thirty euros per month, following the request of the person concerned and reporting on basic social services, and obviously always taking into account the situation of each person and ensuring that they can lead a dignified life and meet their basic needs. This was what was approved in its entirety, and during all these months we have been waiting for what was approved to be fulfilled. On more than one occasion we have been told that it will be implemented shortly. In the media, I remember how Lanbide's director announced his upcoming application in November, but it hasn't. It's February 2016, and throughout this time hundreds of people have continued to suffer the consequences of that mismanagement, without taking steps to minimize that situation. We know many cases; I will not repeat them or say them, but we are all aware and we know that we have data and we know cases. We just met recently the circular work of Profession that determines the process of reversing money. It looks as if he's planning to start the first few steps this month, or at least he puts it in the memo itself. But with this news, our concern has not vanished, we have been enabled to read the memo, and we have seen many criteria without accuracy, which may lead to different interpretations. And that's no good, at least from our point of view, if you want to avoid what has happened so far, and if you want to do it right. My job and I'll be happy to say that people who get wrong payments don't have to pay for the misconduct of the administration, and that you just need to be sure that anyone asks for social fees. That's why we've agreed to the Social Party, I won't repeat it again, because its representative reads it, but I want to insist on what is said at the third point. And it's said at the end of the third point, and it's important for us, if you want to do it right, that's all right, and that's what we're asking you to do for fun and occupation, operators, and damage platforms to promote or open a way to promote them. After all, the goal is clear and should be clear for all of us. We believe, on the one hand, that what was agreed by M. We just want to tell him that it's late, no doubt, it's been a long time. That the memo is not clear, as I said before, and that we will continue to follow the right course around the subject. Because we want to remember to remember, and because we want to remember that we're talking about a right, that we don't talk about charity or presents. Every single person has a right to live on the dignity of being a minority. At the present day, it's an income tool to guarantee incomes, very limited and insufficient from our perspective, but it's an instrument. We have to get through the drill, but we have to do well, just as it hasn't been done until now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistto-UPyD, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u24	Yes, thank you, President. I believe that the speakers who have spoken so far have perfectly explained what we are talking about and what is the unresolved problem on the part of this Government. And it is perfectly explained also in the justification of the socialist amendment, which we generally share, which is why we do not present any kind of amendment. We therefore share the arguments, and we also share the proposal that is being put forward, at least its spirit. Of course it's not a new topic. We are at the end of the legislature, and it is logical that certain issues should be repeated, especially those issues that deal with problems that this Government, which lives so calmly, as you can see, does not end up resolving. The truth is that this issue was first discussed in November 2014. The controversy, or rather the problem, begins with the massive dispatch in September 2014 of some 10,000 letters to recipients of income guarantee income and the supplementary housing benefit, demanding certain amounts of money that they allegedly received improperly during the years 2012 and 2013, which amounted to some 56 million euros. UPyD also made an inquiry to the counselor at that time. This issue brought to light the shortcomings of Lanbide's operation, beyond, by the way, that some took advantage of these facts to relate them to alleged social aid fraud and also to criminalize certain groups, especially immigrant groups. The fact is also that since the Socialist Government decided to take over the payment of income-guarantee income and the supplementary housing benefit through Lanbide this benefit has suffered a considerable deterioration. There were collapses in the offices, delays in appointments, errors, tension in the offices themselves, saturated employees, and certainly with an important stress burden that they themselves denounced. More than 15 per cent of recipients of income guarantee income and supplementary housing benefit were miscalculated what they were to receive, which is, of course, the responsibility of this Government. And for this reason, the return is claimed to persons who in many cases have as their only source of income this benefit. The councillor himself at the time acknowledged at parliamentary level the shortcomings of Lanbide's functioning, the mistakes made, and even apologized. But it takes more than apologizing when one is part of a government. Commitments must be made and the means must be put in place to correct the shortcomings. That's what it's about when you're a government advisor, and in this case when you're a Basque government advisor. Lanbide's structure was not ready to suddenly assume such a complex and comprehensive benefit as the payment of income security income and the supplementary housing benefit, and the consequences were paid by the most vulnerable people in our society. The last debate took place in June 2015, and, as has been said here, the various groups presented in that debate the same arguments that we are defending here today and those that we had previously defended. In our case we are presenting at the time, in that debate, an amendment in its entirety, the spirit of which we maintain today. We proposed to urge the Government to ensure that Lanbide has all the material and human resources necessary to effectively and secure the management of GIR and the supplementary housing provision. We proposed to urge the Government to enable flexible procedures, instalments of payments, deferrals and any other formula that minimizes the impact on those who have suffered from the undue payments made by Lanbide in returning them. These procedures, we said, should be agreed with those adversely affected by Lanbide's mismanagement. And we also proposed in that debate, on a third point, to urge the Government to ensure that the repayments of undue payments by the beneficiaries of the GIR in no case amounted to more than 10% of the benefit, or, if the debtor had found work, 10% of their monthly net salary. Obviously questionable formulas, but which in any case put on the table the need for this Government to take on the mistakes made and facilitate the return of such undue payments to people in certainly very complicated situations. The Group of the European People's Party has tabled an amendment in which I believe that it is interesting: to urge Lanbide to take as many actions as is necessary to ensure that there are no further undue payments caused by its malfunctioning. I mean, go to the root of the problem, make Lanbide work well at once. I think that this would solve problems before these problems could arise, so to speak. Because it is not enough to have competences; in addition to having competences, it is necessary to exercise them correctly. Well, what we are considering today is basically the same transactional amendment that was already adopted in that committee in June 2015. At that time we voted in favour of point 1 and in favour of point 2, and in relation to point 3 we abstained, as the People's Party and as the Basque Nationalist Party, but in any case it went ahead. Today, it comes back to basically the same thing. We have doubts about the monthly fee of EUR 30, but we share the spirit of the transactional. We have doubts as to whether it has to be 30 euros or more, but in any case we share the spirit of the transactional. It is, as I say, also a matter of denouncing, by the way, the breaches of this Government (one more, the one we have on the table), and also facilitating the return of those amounts to those people who are in a very difficult economic situation. Therefore, we would have no problem in supporting the transactional as presented to us. Finally, we are faced with another parliamentary mandate which has not been met by the Basque Government; we are faced with a new show of insensitivity by this Basque Government; we are faced with another problem which has not been resolved by this Basque Government. Unsolved problems and non-compliances are accumulating, but this Government, as you can see, is comfortable and calm and has no greater problem. Finally, they are not seen to be concerned about the situation we are dealing with on this second point, just as they were not concerned about the issue we have dealt with on the previous point. It is enough to observe the adviser, it is enough to observe the spokesman of the Government, it is enough to observe which members of the Government are in this plenary, to conclude that this Government is calm, has no problem. You see how you are reading the messages that come to you on your mobiles, and you will conclude that this issue is indeed resolved, in the sense that this Government has no greater problem with staying alive and surely indolent and insensitive to the serious problems that haunt a great many Basque citizens. In conclusion, parliamentary non-compliances are accumulating, problems are accumulating, this Government remains unresolved the main problems of society, but this Government, unfortunately, is very calm. This government is supported by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning. It's a question of discussion as to the establishment of a social rate for preparations received from the profession rather wrongly. We have discussed this subject for a long time in the legislature, as well as in the whole gathering, as in the Society's Committee; often you, Mr. Maneiro, have not been on the committee, either in this or in many other cases. The origin of the initiative introduced by the Socialist Party explains chronologically the preparations which had not been properly received, and what had happened around the necessity of returning, and which have also been explained here: questions, occurrences, illegal proposals. The eubertist did not apply to the fundamental policy, because the Department of Empeduys and Societys has been at work, in order to give a proper answer to the problem which the Parliament required on the 15th of June, 2015. Since 1 February, Circular 1/2015 of the Director General of Lanbide is being implemented on the determination of the conditions for the return of benefits unduly received. The circular establishes a differentiated treatment, based on whether or not the person concerned is today a recipient of income guarantee income. In the first case, if you continue to be a collector, you can make a refund in a single payment or by means of monthly payroll compensation. In this case, the following actions are treated differently. If the amount unduly received was not due to error or fraud on the part of the collectors, the form of return may be chosen from among the following modalities: a fixed fee of EUR 30, or a percentage of EUR 30, 20 or 10 % of the maximum amount of GIR that could correspond, in the event of total absence of resources, to which one can choose in any case. This position is more advantageous for the collectors than that requested in the third point of the GNP adopted in June and which may fit into the final part of the second point of the transaction that today has been signed by the Socialist Group and EH Bildu. If the debt arises from the termination of the right to collection for fraud, the only option to split the debt is 30 % over the maximum amount of the GIR that might correspond. I think, too, Mrs. Arrido, you'll agree because you said that if the money buyers aren't guilty, they can't blame themselves. But if they have made it a fraud, or not impressed the data, I think the conditions will not be the same. And in the rest of the cases, on a general basis and depending on the total number of persons in the cohabitation unit or the special typology of the cohabitation unit, there are set out options of amounts to be compensated of 30, 20 or 10 % over the maximum amount of GIR that could correspond in the case of total absence of resources. Also a monthly social contribution of EUR 30, provided that the requirements mentioned in the instruction are met, taking into account the number of members of the unit of cohabitation or typology of the unit and the assets, consisting of realizable financial assets and available cash amounts. We're talking about a fork between 3,500 and 5,000 euros. What has been stated so far, for those who follow in preparation. As it is evident, the profession has done its work, and has prepared the means of restoring the ill-paid preparations, a la carta, in order that, considering the different circumstances, it may be the best for the receivers. If, on the other hand, the man who is interested doesn't get a scholarship to support his income, he can translate the money as follows: All the debts were divided in one payment, or in a month. And here, on the one hand, the amount of money that he collected before he left the system to ensure that the rent amount of more than 150% has been triggered by income 30% above the income. Secondly, if there's only one possible possibility, 30% of the income, as in the past case. And in all other cases, if the responsibility is a Profession, it can be chosen to have a fixed 30 Euro share or 30%, 20% or 10% of the money offsets. If it be not the responsibility of the profession, according to the persons of the community's unit, or the special units of life, the percentages expressed before: 30, 20, 10. The social quota of 30 euros a month is also here regarded as the first described by the conditions. So I won't repeat them all. Finally, I must say that Lanbide has established different scales for the return of quantities, differentiating the cases in which there has been Lanbide error from those in which there has been fraud or deception on the part of the collectors, or lack of communication of the updated data, giving a more favorable treatment, as it could not be otherwise, with options to choose by the collector, to the cases in which the error is a consequence of Lanbide's operation. Account has also been taken of the number of persons forming the living unit or the special typology of the unit (existence of minors, persons with disabilities or dependent persons, income...). It is therefore clear that the Basque Government has complied with the request by means of the GNP approved in June 2015, including by improving and giving more specific treatment to the various situations in which it has been found with regard to the amounts unduly collected. For this reason we did not make any correction to the fundamental initiative, because we agreed that the government would be filled with the order, and, on the other hand, when the initiative was introduced by the circular action, and, as has been said, the different states which have been assigned to it from February are applied here. We were going to vote for the basic initiative in a yes, and as the medium presented goes along the same line, we'll protect it because it's safe. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answers, Lady Sarasa, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u28	I would like to begin by clarifying Mrs Garrido, who has said – and I say words to her – "We have not been given the opportunity to participate in the transaction." Look, I'm not going into an argument. Yesterday at one minus ten I sent an email with the compromise proposal to the two amending groups, that is, to EH Bildu and the Basque People. That's what EH Bildu's representative can prove, because the two people were in the same mail. And he made it clear, "I'm waiting for the answer." At 6:11 p.m., I resend a compromise proposal. He puts the text I'm sending: "I'll send you the transaction proposal again by tomorrow, after collecting the contributions you've sent me." And I sent it to all groups, to the amenders and to the non-amendants. Mrs Arregi answered me, Mr Maneiro answered me, and you answered me yourself at ten o'clock at night. And I was satisfied. I said, "Well, at last it seems that we are going to agree on a subject that affects many people who receive social benefits, who have children in their care, who have dependent people in their care, and that, above all, and it was very important, they intend to return those amounts, but all they ask is that they be given facilities." This is something very normal today, that people want to return the money and be given facilities, more among the poor than among the rich. So, Mrs. Garrido, white and bottled, milk. And I am not going to discuss it with you, because what interests me is that you agree that there is a problem and that from this House we will give it a solution. Mr Maneiro says that we must go to the root of the problem so that it does not continue to happen. Totally agree. But it is also true that, even if solutions are put in place, in the meantime we have to solve everything that has been generated in these years. And you say that you have doubts about the social contribution of thirty euros. What I can do is read to you what the 2010 guarantee income regulatory decree says at one of its points, where specifically reference is made to the procedure for the recovery of undue benefits. It states: "In the event that the existence of a situation of undue perception, or of undue amount", of the benefit is deemed to exist, "the resolution provided for in the preceding paragraph shall declare the obligation to reintegrate the amounts appropriate, setting at the same time the maximum period of time available to the person concerned to give effect to that obligation as well as the number and amount of monthly returns to be made. The above-mentioned period should be fixed taking into account that, unless the holder expressly wishes otherwise, the amounts to be reinstated may not represent more than 30 % of the intended income of the person concerned and of his unit of living during the period of time referred to in that period." If you do not have to exceed 30%, from there down you can enter any fee, which can be thirty euros, it can be ten or it can be five. Obviously, we have put thirty because that's what the platform asked for. And I hope I have answered you with all the education, the same one you have, which is so. With regard to the Basque Nationalist Party, you say that the Government has been working to respond to what was agreed on 15 June 2015. I know that there are three circular texts, three (the first, the second and the third), and I am not going to say what the first one was, because it was practically inconsumable, but... That is true, that the Government has been working, but at the same time it was sending communications to persons affected by this problem, prior to this procedure of reinstatement, without specifying the exact date, the amount to be owed, the details of the date, or the justification. And those people, and I can say this, I have it here... Here you put the file number, the total amount, and the reason you put "RIG", revised since 2014. And the same (this is the communication), the same puts in the beginning of the procedure for the return of benefits. They are even told a payment date. Man, you tell me the government is working... What the Government has to do is actually work, but prove to us that in the meantime it suspends the files... in the meantime, I'm sorry, it suspends this kind of communication (excuse me), pre-return communication. That will, which doesn't mean I don't have to get it back. And all I'm going to say is that we request that this circular, please, counselor, be extended to each and every one of the offices, because if you call an office today they will tell you that they have no record. Please enable an information telephone to be used to assist affected persons. And that if people charge GIR they are entitled to a social contribution, of course, and there is a problem: that there are some families to which that right has been extinguished because of a serious fault of one of the people in the cohabitation unit who have this problem, and yet they would not enter and would not have the right to return it with a social contribution, and it turns out they have no income. I want you to keep that in mind, too. That people, of course, do not see their rights violated, that they have to come here to Gasteiz...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u29	Finish up, Mrs. Sarasa.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u30	(I'm done.) It would be interesting if they could also do so in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. And I also have to say that, despite everything, we understand that what people want is to pay. What you want is to pay, Mr. Counsellor, but what you want is to pay with flexibility according to your economic situation. I think that's a receipt. For my part, that's all. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Euskal Group's representative, Mrs Garrido...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u32	Eskerrik asko. Eserlekutik egingo dut interbenzioa. Very briefly, of course, to focus on the important and not the accessory. Indeed, Mrs Sarasua sends a series of emails, but I understood that the agreement with EH Bildu was already in place. Since this initiative is not new, it has been fucked on other occasions and also with EH Bildu, so I understood that the agreement was obviously closed, and I thanked him. But, as I have already said, we share the spirit, and in some way, the same with some other shade, but the idea of the People's Party is being introduced that situations of undue payments attributable to Lanbide should not happen again, so let us support the initiative. And I believe that the important thing, which Mr Maneiro has also stressed, as a result of what we mentioned in our amendment, is that this situation changes at the root and improves the functioning of Lanbide, which today has many deficits in its functioning and is clearly improveable. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u33	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Lady EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u34	Very short, a couple of things to discuss. Madame Arregi has mentioned the circular, and has mentioned the person who collects memos or has its content. I have already mentioned that I learned in my interference that this month it was intended to start that circular, or to lead it to practice. But at the same time, I mean that the problem is not with those who have committed fraud, we are not talking about it today, because we are in the wrong position: We're talking about people who have been treated badly without fraud. And besides, his responsibilities for bad practice and bad management, when he cares. That's what we're talking about. And at this level I have said before and want to repeat: A few confused phrases from our point of view are very intelligible. I'm not going to start reading one by one at the moment, but we're just trying to call it a joke. And we wish to assume that it will act with the proper flexibility, but if it is not so, we must also know that this group will follow the right course of the matter from now on. Because we think, as I said before, that there are many people who have trouble with the procedures of management, and if we put too many of them together, and if we concentrate too much, and even if this is in the circular, we'll have the problem again and we'll go on with our problems. And that's why we want to call him an attention. And on the other hand, tell me it's better to be late than not to leave it. But we're still late, and that's what we want to say again on the table. I have mentioned that we shall continue on this subject, and see that what is really decided and just is fulfilled from now on. And, on the other hand, I can't help saying that it's necessary, and that's what we're asking the Professions and the fun of the injured, the agents, the business of doing things well and also the daily management, the tools, the means, because that's the way we're going to find each other in company and understanding. Up until now, it's not fun, and we expect you to do it from now on. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Maniro has to take the word... ? No. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say to the People's Party that today's GNP was on the establishment of a social quota for the return of the wrongly received social benefits. He's devoted most of his time, from his first part, to talking about irregularities, Lanbide's malfunction, such... but, well, if we're going to get something positive, it's that, curiously, today he's parked the message centered on the fraud that they've been using so much when we talked about this issue, which I honestly tell him we're glad. "Essupon, Mrs. Rocko, she has her hands extended and the doors wide open to discuss with the operators and other societies and talk about the problem, but that doesn't mean they should always appreciate what they propose. Keep your hand open to talk, that's all there is to it. Then you said that you hoped to apply the spring around the interpretation of the memo, that there are some things that are not clear enough for you. In our opinion, "Mingon's will is clear, and the best solution is to be paid ad, and that's why they've put themselves in the circular itself, and I believe that my will has gone beyond what the other proposition was given in June." And it's just that the media will have our support, as I said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for the Sozialists and the Middle Amendment that the EH Collect has signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u38	Thus, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal as to the popular teams of the Euscal Acts, which made it possible to adapt to the 2/2006 law of the Basque Earth as quickly as possible, and to increase maps of natural danger before the general plan of the town-orders has been made. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u39	Thank you, Madam President. The initiative we are presenting today relates to Law 2/2006 on Soil and Urbanism of the Basque Country, the only law in force in the Basque Country and the only one that has ever been. It was not a law of great consensus. His presentation already showed how the actors involved had and manifested suspicions and aspects that they did not understand to be positive. And also administrations, as was the case with Eudel, which revealed a number of aspects that contained great damage to the municipalities: regardless of their specificities, it treated everyone equally; it did not take into account the types of population, the location or the topographic difficulties, and it is also a rigid and faracious law when dealing with files and procedures. In this House there have also repeatedly been some problems that the implementation of this law raises, and also, as you will all recall, an ad hoc amendment was made to the adaptation of the general plans of the municipalities, because the law set a time limit of eight years and that for some municipalities is complex, and there was a ad hoc amendment. In these almost ten years of this law the socio-economic circumstances have changed. The crisis has hit the urban sector, as in other economic sectors. Therefore, a law made with the aim of combating soil speculation and meeting the demand for housing is meaningless today as it is drafted. Today there is no speculation of soil, and we have a large stock of new empty and also used housing. Also in these almost ten years of this law, various legal norms have been adopted that directly affect the soil and urban action, and that require the amendment of some articles of this law. The Group of the European People's Party, as you all know, voted against that law, because, as Mr Damborenea has already said, both in the proceedings and in the debate on its adoption and how many times he has had the opportunity to say so, this law is inhalable, from our point of view. In 2012 the Socialist Group tabled a proposal for a law amending this law, but it did not give time, because, as you all know, the House was dissolved in August. This proposal for a law already pointed to interesting changes, and the possibility, through amendments, of correcting important aspects that are necessary. As I said, the initiative we put forward from the People's Group refers to article 13 of the Act and some aspects of soil. The Soil Law says that land cannot be classified as urbanizable when urban transformation causes or does not eliminate certain risks of detachment or runoff. In 2008, the Soil Act, a state law, was adopted, and article 15 of the Act obliges the Autonomous Communities to adapt their legislation to this new text, requiring the preparation of natural risk maps prior to the general urban management plans of the municipalities, in order to avoid natural disasters that could cause material and human damage in the future. We have tabled this initiative in this House, the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group have tabled amendments, and since the initiative we were presenting from the People's Group actually mentions a single aspect of the law, but it is something that we understood we had to adapt already since 2008, and also the amendment made by the Socialist Group, on a report from the administrations to see what changes are necessary or understand that are necessary in the law, well, we have come to a compromise amendment in which we believe that a paper is being created, and that by the end of this period of sections a report is being issued showing all the agents who are linked or related to this sector, in addition to the administrations, and that a report is coming out that contains those aspects which are, on the one hand, prejudicial to, or are not currently applicable, or do not resolve the ground issues, rather prolong the procedures, do not speed up, and we believe that an adjustment is necessary. We have therefore come to that compromise amendment, and that is what we are going to put to the vote. I have to tell you that, well, I would like to thank the Basque Socialist and Nationalist groups for their collaboration to improve the initiative of the People's Group, and I hope that the non-amending groups will vote in favour. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief physician; good day, you lepers; and to others good day. It is true, as Mrs. Octave has said, that we have reached a middle course. But this subject is not new. You, many members of the legislature here, know that this subject has been treated in this term. And I believe that this exposition as well as the Pionian teams was in June, and that both the Eunist and the Sociaists of the Basque Sociists made full corrections. He came to the Chamber today, and we'll treat him today. The law of 2006 on the Euscadian Earth determines that a land is not suitable for the development of the city, and therefore cannot be classed as a subdividable by the change of city, by the fall and by the interruption of the earth, or when it does not prevent its danger. And considering the nature of all theography of our country, it is undeniable, and we see everywhere in so many roads and mountains round about us that we have had earth-falls lately, even in the area of the Arechabalt. And this was the occasion for the populars to present this proposal. And PSEko doesn't see this reason badly, because, as I said before, it happens and we see it. And we see also that, as they say, we must adapt ourselves to the work of a text of the Law of Luzoru 2008, and even if that be so, we must go on and adapt ourselves to it. But this time we're going beyond it. You will remember, at least the members who were here then, logically – because there are a few new ones since then – you will remember how in June 2014 a bill was passed by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist parliamentary groups to amend the Soil and Urbanism Act, to extend the time frame of adaptation of the municipalities, their subsidiary rules and general plans, to the Soil Act of 2006, so that municipalities that so needed could adapt to the law. The parliamentary law was aware that the financial cost of writing the tools of the town planning is great, and that in certain townships there might be a lack of resources to pay for them. Even, as we know, new planning procedures are long. And in order to facilitate these difficulties, the law was obliged to change, and we do not deny that this alternative can be again. I will remind you, as a demonstration, how the Mayor of the Vale was appointed to the assembly, in the name of Jesus Openalus, who was before me, and who explained his problem, the affair of the country. The character of Cartera is peculiar, it has many neighbors, and the execution of this law produced its own difficulties. That same day, the vice-master of the Environments, Mrs. Irrerureta, confirmed the Careracian case, and also said that there were some cases, perhaps less serious, but also peculiar. And then this subject was treated. And I take the character as an example to link it to the subject of today. The laws are drawn up and approved to comply with them, always, as is the case today, as is the Soil Law of 2006, but it is in their development when you see their practicality or functionality. The amendment of the law is always possible, it is an option that must not be ruled out. Although at this time, or in its day, as the Deputy Councillor said, the Government does not have in its legislative timetable the revision of this law, it can always be improved and adapted to the needs of the moment. Mrs López de Ocariz said that situations have changed, the socio-economic situation has changed ostensibly since the law was passed, and since the last change was also made. Their weaknesses must be corrected, concretely their indefinitiveness, softening their rigidity, contemplating their exceptions. And all that is seen in practice, all that is seen after a law (any law, in this case this)..., in its treatment and execution is where you see those needs that I have manifested. As such, today we are not trying to propose a change of law. We do not plan the change of the law to-day, but it may perhaps have been a consequence. The popular group presented a different proposal as it was, and, as I have said before, we introduced patriotic groups, PNVs, and the Socialists' corrections. But what the Populian was planning was, we thought, that with our proposal and with PNV's they had a connection. I think so, and that's what we've done, because what the popular groups planned was meant to make geotnic studios, and, as I said before, we're not against it, and if necessary, we'll do it, and if it's in order to do so, we'll do it, because it'll be done, because it's not the way you plan it. And we used to say that they were supposed to be in that joint, Eudel, you know, and you know, because, as you know, aliens have something to say about this. As this last text has been collected, it says: "Euscal Legend allows the influence of the Euscadian Luzoru and of the 30th of June of Rome, and, as it happens, a power to examine the change, in which the representatives of the administration and the injured agents will participate, and will agree to present a report of the consequences at the end of this meeting." I think that this plainly explains that the desire of the three is united in this proposition, and that we ought to employ the means of proceeding. I think this is a peaceful thing. It's easy. Who can deny to create a power? Who can deny that we who are here stand against it? After all, it doesn't say that the law ought to change, but it might be a consequence to demand a change of law. I don't know if there's time or not, but to complete the power, yes. So, those who haven't signed this, because they haven't had the opportunity, I ask them to vote for me. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Alter fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. In short, I mean that our party is in harmony with the agreement that has arisen between the three teams, with the order of transactions. And we agree with the production of a power to examine the consequences of the 2/2006 law of the Earth and Rome, and to make corrections, or to change the law. There are indeed reasons why it is advisable to adapt, in our opinion, or modify the Soil Law, but I have to disagree with Mrs López de Ocariz, because the reasons she pointed out in her writing we understand that they do not justify it by themselves, because it is a matter that is already settled, in our opinion, in the law itself, and it is not urban planning but the environment precisely. But we say, however, that there are reasons to modify or revise the Soil Law, some intrinsic reasons, and some extrinsic ones. The external reasons have already been pointed out, which are in the first place the passage of time, the ten years of its entry into force, and the effects it has produced. Another problem has also been pointed out, which is, despite the time that has elapsed, why, of the municipalities of Euskadi, only 25% of them have adapted to this Soil Law, after ten years of its existence. Then, there are also the different figures of planning that have not even been used during this period. It will therefore be necessary to see whether they need to be maintained, retouched or modified. There is also another issue, which is, let's say, the rigidity or inflexibility in some aspects of what we have already talked about here, particularly the standards for sheltered housing, which require us to reserve this kind of soil in municipalities where there is no such demand, which is a kind of contradiction, in our view. And it would also be necessary to analyze the memory of economic sustainability of the general plans, which would give us some clue about the goodness or the implication that such measures would have over the years in the respective municipality or in other estates in their case, particularly the estates of the deputies, of the historical territories. Then there are also extrinsic reasons, as has already been pointed out here, such as the global economic crisis, which has significantly affected the real estate sector, which is directly affected by this issue. Also state legislation, the Consolidated Text of the Soil Law; which, by the way, Mrs López de Ocariz, is not that of 2008, which is repealed, but it is another, that of 2015, which has been published in October, and refers to the Law on urban regeneration and rehabilitation, which is an aspect that will have to be addressed. And finally, as far as we within Euskadi are concerned, there is the recently passed Housing Act, which also contains determinations that affect, in our opinion, the Soil Act. Therefore, all these reasons advise, as I say, the need to analyze the aspects of this law. In this regard, we invite all groups to..., we believe it is appropriate, let us say, that we should all reflect on the social, legal and economic changes that have taken place in the area of soil and urban planning in Euskadi, and we also find it interesting that this report, these conclusions, should also be carried out during the remainder of the session. That is why we agree with the compromise amendment, thanking the Socialist Group and the People's Group for their willingness to agree, and I ask that both the UPyD Group and Euskal Herria Bildu join it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u44	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. The teams that don't run, Meniro mustn't speak. From EH collect, Mr. Mazzu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Legs, and good morning to all of you. It is strange enough for us how this other proposition has arrived legally at this or this whole meeting, and is finally to be admitted. I think it is necessary, at least, to put context in a little way about the proposal. If I am not mistaken, the initial proposal of the Populative Party had something to do with the representation made by certain representatives of the Geologists at the Committee of Environments and Regional Organies the year before. And I think, or at least I came out of this committee with this view, that if we could conclude from this series of developments which have been made, or which have been made before, several public works, and especially public works of transport, we all know the consequences which were not to be directed on one side, in order to make profound geological inquiries, and upon the table. For example, if we come from AP1, it's a year's work, making up a leap of land around the Escola, or we'll all remember the opening of the Hernia in the works of a high-speed train, or the earth-scrapers that had been in the Zuzian tunnel for example. It was therefore quite clear to them that when the development of this kind is made by the Cambrian or infrastructure, the economic resources which tend to make geological investigations are not sufficient. And we concluded a second conclusion that it is necessary that we should have geological maps which should now be up to date. Thus, either in this or that context, the Popular Party introduced to us another proposal from this point of view, the other saying that the 2/2006 Luzoru and the City Law ought to be changed, not only by that, but also by that. And we're going to end this point today with a power to change 2/2006 Earth and the City Act, so that there's no mention of what the geologists said in its own time. And clarro, we'd like to know first why we should change the 2/2006 Law, what real reasons are to change that law. Because we've heard here that the social situation has changed, that's what the Social Party member said, in a different way, the Jaltist of the Eural Party has said, the Mudical economic crisis. I suppose that argument is very useful at the moment of any change of law, and we must remember that we have some laws here from the '80s' and the '90s' which are probably more urgent than the Luzoru law that changed in 2006. What to say that those who have been stored in the government's law calendars are not brought here, but a group that protects that government brings back a law that is not included in that calendar to change it here. We do not believe that the social condition is a weighty argument to change that law. So we ask the member of the Social Party and the member of the Eucatian Party what are true reasons for changing this law. We have some suspects, but we want you to know what's going to be settled in the housing area by changing that law and what you want. The member of the Popula Party has left some criteria on the table, and has said that there is no speculation with the soil, so that several regulations which have been established in that law have no meaning. Well, it's 85,000 empty rooms in harban, Bizka, and Gipuzia. 100,000 people calling for a house and not getting a house. What do you mean, no speculation? What are these empty 85,000 units? A consequence of speculation, a consequence of speculation still existing in force. Don't you know that in any town at this moment there are some of the standing soil, some concrete corporations, and some financial institutions in some cases, that they're waiting for another situation to do and sell the housing over there? And that has a name: Speculation, speculation with the soil, and the fundamental right to be a housing right, because they want economic profits. And that's why we don't think it's the main reason to change the law 2006, that there are others. And, well, let's hope for more information on this second round, to know why you want to change that law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Passing on the answering shift, the Basque Potula Group is not supposed to speak a word... Basque Socialists, Mr. Elola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u47	Just in answer to Dani Maezturi. As to what others have said, we agree with our shades on what has been said about Łódź de Ocarari, and what has been said by Mr. of the fountain of the Altar. Dani Maeztu has mentioned that we have spoken of changing the law. We have said that changing the law is a possibility, that it may be the result of a work of this power. We have changed this first law, if I am not mistaken two years ago, in order to regulate its subsidial rules or general schemes, for we all know, and here there are many who have been aldermen and a mayor, what difficulty is there in making a general plan. If it is done for a few years, it usually fills up, enlarges, and is never made up of that law at a hundred per cent. And it is necessary to introduce a law, the Law of the Earth, with difficulty. And so it was decided to prolong this choice, because there was a large percentage unsuited to the law. And the law changed. Then what we're going to admit today is that we can complete a potentialization. Because we've seen different cases. And I'll read to you what Oskar Matut, your teammate, on the 7th of May 2014 said on this committee. I've already mentioned that the mayor of Cartara was on the board, and he was the deputy chief of the department. The character case is special, and Mr. Oskar Matute said: "Es equidentate que un cabio de realadendid en la edifidida, y un con cambera, adecta a casuísticas concretas Karera, no haya que que que que que que que acer aligen de modificion." So it's the same reason for you. And since 2014 it hasn't changed much. I think that these are your fears, and you have examples where you have been governed. And if you are so afraid of it, the correction must make your own teams where you are in command. Do not suspect others, when others make a proposition, do not add this suspicion to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ella. The flood is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u49	With your permission, I'll take it from the seat. Mr. Maeztu, you put the bandage on before the coup. He's making a judgment of intent about what's going to result from this paper. You are an urban planner, and surely you know that in this whole process of analysis of urban planning it can happen that we come to the situation or to the conviction that the norm is right, and therefore we do not have to change it. It can happen perfectly, as a process of intellectual creation in this matter. It gives me the impression that you are afraid of the debate in that paper. Your appreciation has seemed interesting to me, those reflections, but what we have to do among all of us is to contrast them, and analyze those points in the legal text that deserve to be modified, if so, if we agree with the majority. That is simply not to reject the debate, and to come to work on the paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u50	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Mazzu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u51	With your permission, short, just to answer. I have made no answer to what will be the results of this power. I have asked exact questions, to know what your true intentions are in order to change this law. I repeat, because there are so many laws to change what are necessary, there are several reasons for changing so many laws, that I do not see that the social condition is an argument of weight to change this law. That's why I said there might be other arguments. You mentioned only one case, Mr. Elola, and it's that general plans have to change, that the locals have long enough to follow when they change such plans. You see, the principal problem of the town councils at present is not to make general plans any faster in the housing; it is not that they have any instruments or instruments to secure a decent apartment for the young people of the country. That's the first problem. Another problem is, they don't have an efficient device to eliminate domestic mistakes. Such a problem as this is not the problem of making General plan any lighter or later. If therefore this power be made, we shall, of course, take part without doubt, but it is very clear that the questions which are in the housing for us have nothing to do with the change of the Common-wealth, and the Law of Township.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Esquile Popular Groups, the Esquilists, and the media that signed Euca Abertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 52; counters 21; white, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u53	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Like Misto-UPyD-Jugments, the college professors were faced with terrorists for years and years on account of making the official act of Euskooks and UV-EHUs. Discipline and final resolution. The guy who made the proposal is next to the group, UPD. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u54	Thank you, President. The terrorist band ETA for decades, and through its terrorist activity, tried to impose its totalitarian project on society as a whole. For years he relentlessly pursued all those citizens who dared to think differently from what their totalitarian political postulates determined. To that end, it perpetuated thousands of attacks of all kinds, kidnapped dozens of citizens, extorted hundreds of people, wounded thousands of innocent people, and killed more than eight hundred citizens. Its terrorist activity caused irreparable death and damage to men, women and children, housewives, retirees, workers, military, civilian guards, national police, ertzainas, public servants, journalists, university professors and dozens of anonymous citizens. For decades, there were those who raised their voices to denounce the injustices committed and the violations of the most basic human rights, and to defend freedom and democracy, as a result of which they were flagged and persecuted by the terrorist gang or its collaborators. They all deserve the recognition and tribute of democratic society and the public authorities. The work of the university and the free and committed voice of university professors is especially indispensable in any democracy. The work carried out by dozens of university professors deserves a public act of express and specific recognition and tribute, which is what we propose today, to all those who decided to exercise their social role in Basque. Teachers who saved university honour and who, maintaining dignity and overcoming all fears and risks, faced with only the voice and the word, and their active commitment, to the postulates and threats of ETA. For this work, which we will never thank enough, dozens of them had to leave their place of residence and the place where they were carrying out their teaching work. The Basque Government and the UPV and all of us owe them that official tribute and public recognition, not so much for what they suffered, but above all for what they fought for. It is about recovering their memory and their work and doing justice; it is about placing them in their rightful and deserving place, and continuing to give them a voice in the political times we are living in today. Therefore, and on the basis of all this, we present this initiative. We want this Parliament to urge the Basque Government and the UPV to carry out an official act of tribute and public recognition to university professors who for years faced the terrorist band ETA, and we propose that this official act be carried out during the first half of this year 2016. I think it is a good time to ask now that the times have changed and that ETA has been virtually defeated. University students who faced ETA not only risked their lives, but also jeopardized their own professional career. Many hundreds of teachers were actively involved in the protest against the terrorist offensive at the university, signing manifestos or giving active testimony to what was going on. They have never been recognized, and that is why we propose this specific and express and official tribute, to be made by the university itself, which receives public funds, and also by the Basque Government. ETA wanted to control education and university, and eliminate the civic movements that emerged from there. The first collective communiqué of university professors was published at the end of 1996. Manifesto "We do not resign" dated December 18, 1996, which was signed by more than eighty professors of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Communication of the UPV. The Ermua Forum was created on 13 February 1998 and presented at the Ercilla Hotel in Bilbao. Of the three hundred signatories, two hundred were professors of the UPV, including Manu Montero, Txema Portillo, Carlos Martínez Gorriarán, Aurelio Arteta or Javier Corcuera, among others. Enough Ya!, as a civic platform, emerges in 1999, also supported by a good number of university professors who at that time decided to take a step forward and speak freely, which is the best way to defend freedom of expression. The meaning teachers in the Ermua Forum and Enough Now! became a specially sought-after target of ETA. It's striking that the civic platform is over now! It was awarded the European Parliament's Sakharov Prize and, however, its components, and in general the university professors who belonged to this platform or other professors who belonged to other platforms, did not receive a tribute at their own home in Euskadi. And a particular tribute, official and express, sponsored and promoted by the Basque Government itself or by the university itself. While some people were threatened and had to end up leaving, those who lived threatening enjoyed all the academic advantages, and were able to choose and fill the positions that violence left vacant. Another contradiction: those fighting were persecuted, or had to leave, or suffered from internal exile; those pursuing them received academic advantages and were filled with those positions that remained vacant as a result of terrorism. 253 teachers also joined the Teachers'Platform for Freedom of 2002, promoted by Gotzone Mora. The hardest time in the UPV was between 1997 and 2006. Something Professor Mikel Iriondo wrote, I think it expresses the situation of that moment well. Mikel Iriondo wrote an article saying:"On May 11, a UPV administrative in Vitoria, carrying the blue ribbon, received at her home a simulated bomb package. On June 2, an artifact with cables connected to an empty box was placed in the bathroom of the Alavesa Faculty of Philology, while the dean's name appeared in the center of several targets drawn in the lobby of the center. The same days the police deactivated a bomb letter addressed to a San Sebastián law professor." This has happened very recently, and it is worth remembering to pay tribute and tribute to those people who, as I say, raised their voices and took a step forward. In December 2000 ETA placed a powerful bomb package on the elevators of the UPV School of Journalism; it was deactivated by the Ertzaintza after being discovered by an escort from Edurne Uriarte. Many teachers, as I say, had to leave, as a result of threats and relentless persecution of ETA and its auxiliary services. Others stayed, but suffered the obvious discomforts of remaining persecuted, or of having to go accompanied from one place to another with escort, suffering also the inner exile. And all this while certain students, prisoners of the terrorist band ETA, were rewarded with, in the end, academic benefits of various kinds. I believe that, in view of all this, it is the right time to claim that official tribute. Mikel Iriondo also expresses and summarizes what many university professors think. He wrote in his time, not too long ago, that "during the toughest moments of this situation I have noticed that we have been a nuisance to the university." And Susperregui, another professor, has recently written that "institutionally they have cared more about prisoners than about us". Finally, as I say, a situation that deserves to be remembered and recognized. In April 2013, a year and a half after the cessation of violence, the Rector of UPV sent a letter to six of the professors who had "exiled" – intercommissioned – to other universities outside the Basque Country for threats from ETA, calling them to a meeting to facilitate their reintegration into their teaching or research work on Basque campuses. It said that letter that "we want to normalize your situation in the UPV". A letter addressed, among others, to Manu Montero, Gotzone Mora, Paco Llera, Txema Portillo or Sara Torres, among others. According to the Rector, it was time to "close the two banks of the river, since, according to a report prepared by the Ertzaintza, there was no risk of preventing normalization of the employment situation". These people learned from Deia rather than from the letter sent by the Rector, which also demonstrates once again the insensitivity of the governing team that initiated these procedures to ask these people to return. Finally, I believe that it is also worthwhile, in relation to this matter, to denounce the bureaucratic and insensitive attitude of the last rectoral team with teachers temporarily separated for security reasons, whom he called "labour normality" with the end of the ETA attacks, as if it had been a job loss due to illness, or a long sabbatical year, and not a prolonged attack on human rights and democracy itself. In view of all this, we believe that it is indispensable, it is necessary to ask the UPV, to ask the Government to carry out an official act of recognition of all these people who, at a very serious historical moment for our democracy, as I say, decided to fulfil their duty, in addition to as teachers, as citizens, and to confront the obligatory nationalism in particular, but above all a terrorist gang called ETA, and for this reason we propose this official recognition. Of the amendments that have been tabled, an addendum has been tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, which we will, of course, vote in favour. It is proposed that this official event will also pay tribute to the teachers who, by teaching at the other Basque universities (Deusto, Mondragon or UNED), share the same values. What I do believe is that a specific tribute to university professors is needed. No more global tributes to all the victims, but an official and specific tribute to these people, for the specific importance that the university has, and that it had to confront ETA, and from which came civic movements that did much to advance the end of ETA terrorism. The last parliamentary term is an official tribute, it is true, to the public offices subjected to persecution for years by the terrorist band ETA. The past legislature was an agreement between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and UPyD to be able to develop that specific tribute, and indeed that tribute took place in this very House, and it was a historic moment that we remember with joy. I believe that there is now this possibility of organizing this specific tribute. In view of the amendments, it will not go forward, but in any case we maintain this initiative, because we think it is fair, and those teachers, those tens and hundreds of teachers who faced ETA receive this tribute. They haven't received it until today, and I think it's fair to give it to them. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Passor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u56	Thank you, President. Well, Mr Maneiro has brought to this plenary the proposal that we urge the Basque Government and the UPV to carry out a public act of tribute and recognition to the university professors who planted in the face of terror and the threat of ETA. The initiative of the spokesman for UPyD is a result of the presentation last November of a report prepared by the Europarliamentarian of this formation Maite Pagazaurtundua, a work that puts in value the courage of certain professors of the public university, also of that of Deusto, who did not bow to the climate of terror that the world of ETA wanted to impose in the years of the Great Fear, when it was generalized what was called the socialization of suffering. Socialists take into consideration the example of these teachers (some well-known, such as Fernando Savater, Pello Salaburu, Manu Montero and Javier Elzo; others not so much), because they not only endured blackmail, threat and even exile, but also continued to give public testimony of their resistance and were a civic reference for many people in our country. It is the same consideration that we have towards entrepreneurs, judges, prosecutors, journalists and other professionals that in those years of iron did not wrinkle either, that kept the guy despite knowing a possible target of terrorists, and continued to work with guts heart, some with the annoying company of an escort and others without it. That is why in the amendment we have tabled we extend our tribute to all of them, not only to university professors, but also to all other professional groups, not forgetting the various police forces that have paid a high cost to carry out their task of protecting the lives and freedom of citizens, or the escorts that guarded the people on the target, or civic associations as worthy of admiration as Gesto por la Paz, for example. Indeed, what is true is that it would be more than justified for the University of the Basque Country itself to make a specific tribute to these teachers. You owe him. However, it seems to us that a public and institutional recognition organised by the Basque Government should not be limited to a single group, as Mr Maneiro proposes, but should cover all of them. And that is for a principle of fairness and justice, not to discriminate against or compare merit with one another, and for a reason of effectiveness, not to have to carry out a succession of acts for the same purpose but intended for different groups. That is the meaning of the original amendment tabled by the Socialists, in which the Basque Government was urged to carry out an official act of tribute and public recognition to all the collectives who for years suffered from terrorism in the exercise of their profession and who managed to overcome fear and extortion, continuing in their respective educational, business, judicial, political or journalistic activities. We have already seen that Bildu in his amendment tries to sell us something else, he tries to sell us the story that in this country we have all been equally victims of a kind of cross-border and comparable violence, and that some are compensated with others until they are annulled between them. Finally, in any case, I believe that we must be pleased that this idea that we Socialists have put into our amendment will come forward through a compromise amendment that we have signed with the Basque Nationalist Group. It is very reasonable that, since the autumn with the Institute of Memory, Co-existence and Human Rights (Gogora), this is the body that is responsible for promoting and organizing an act of homage, a recognition that fits perfectly with its founding tasks. I would like to recall that the fundamental mission of Gogora, as reflected in the explanatory statement of the law establishing this institute, is to rescue, highlight, commemorate and transmit the democratic values and efforts that, in the midst of serious violent episodes, fought for dignity, equality and freedom. A definition, by the way, that seems to be thought of ex-professional for the groups to which we are referring, because we are talking about citizens who, being able to avoid becoming victims, silent or bowing to the terrorist threat, as others did in our country – and we will not be the ones to blame for it – had the courage not to shut their mouths before barbarism, the civic courage to refuse to pay terrorists, and dignity in addition to continuing to exercise their profession without bending their heads. More than enough reason for them to receive the tribute and recognition they deserve from Basque society. And I think it is a reason for congratulations that this Parliament today, with important political support, has taken a decisive step towards paying off the debt of gratitude that we all have contracted with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Gather the Representative of the EH Group, Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u58	The President of the legislature, the President, the Chief, the Chief of Sessions, the Member of Parliament, good day. As you say, Mr. Maniro, the university's work and the free and committed voice of the professors are necessary. We think so too. That's why it's hard for us to understand your obsessions with the Basque Country University. You always doubt that the institution and integrity of the public university are indisputable. The public university is the autonomous institution of Araba, Biscay, and Gipu. With the autonomy confessed to him, he arranges his academic activities and study and other matters. So, for instance, he's created the Euscal Institute of Crimeinology and Valentín de Foronda Social History Institute. You must know them, Mr. Maniro, the work they do in high school. The university doesn't deserve your outrageous contempt. The Basque Country University is also part of our country as described here. The university, this is true, has suffered and the university has suffered a great deal of oppression, violence, and neglect, without any preparation. In part, Mr. Maneiro, we are what we remember. Though the memory belongs to each person, it changes and adapts itself under each other during the course of time. It still costs us to accept a story which negates those who have lived. We remember what we did, and we can't remember what we didn't do. From what I have seen and lived I speak to you of the talent of what my memory allows me to tell you. If we were silent, this story of others would become a fossilized history. Even if you talk to us in a way that is easy and offensive, you can't change the one we've gathered into our memories. We have nothing against consideration, remembrance, and remembrance. Let's do what we need, the ones and the other, that's not the question. Let's think of it. The Basque Country University, the same UPV/EHU, was the result of a long-year fight. The professors of different colleges, the students, and the workmen worked immensely to achieve the public college of Araba, Usca, and Gipuzia. It cost us a good deal to break the chains that bound us in the university of Valladolid and Zaraganza. If the silent logo of the Basque University created by Chilillak could tell how tired and how much work we had to work, at least we who have memory know that. But, for the sake of knowing, we ask no consideration for those who had enabled our college system, even if they deserved it. It is a sufficient consideration to see the university itself strong and lively. There have been a great number of universes, and is subject to the support of peace and freedom, because it is not the province of liberty, since it has been derived from the struggles for freedom. The last years of the twentieth grade and the early ten years of the new century were particularly severe: conflicts, violences, and difficult persecutions had occurred to me. Even in college. It is true that in this atmosphere of violence a great number of collegemen participated in the movements of peace and the reflections of the solution of conflict: students, teachers and workers, different ideology. It could take a long time to list the teams and initiatives that had been created at the university in those years: It's a band of Donostian Law Facultats, a Coordination for the Peace of the Basque Country, or a mutual union, for the sake of the Forum or the Torment of the Iba, to mention some in the Wallet. As we knew, the groups rose up against nationalism in hostile movements. You want to suggest to us without telling us that the UUPV/EHU patriots control it according to their own interests in order to achieve their wishes. It's easy to remember that during the 2014th year of 1996 the rectors were the Pello Heads and Manuel Montecía, mentioned here. The second, as has been said, of the creators of Ermu Foru, and, as has been said here, of firm postures. These two reactors ruled UUPV/EHU difficult years. If you'd like to suggest the contrary, Mr. Maniro, the university had given enough attention and protection to the threatened teachers, from the very beginning to today. It's been almost 20 years since those hard times, and five years since he stopped using violence. We are now seeing that you want to use the painful consequences of the conflict and conflict of that time to acquire political advantages. You're asking the New Year's and the Basque Country University to organise the official act of public approval, to honor the teachers and record them. First of all, you underestimate it, and especially the Secretary of Peace and Company, and then you insult the Public Universities. Your enterprise has no sense in these political circumstances. It's paradoxical to have a party-free party initiative. No one does any favor to teachers who were hard against nationalism in those years, or to those who were sincere in peace, or to those who tried to criticize over time, Mr. Maniro. The correction we introduced has been mentioned here. By this correction we do not wish to state, Mr. Pastor, what has happened in this country in any way. But we wish to inform ourselves what we have lived in our recollections, and how we see them. And it seems to us that we must build habits and bridges for each other. The elections of the Spanish State have brought it down at the end of the political cycle. We end the hegemony of the two parties and plunge into a new situation. Things are changing in the bud, yes, but the new cycle cannot be increased until now. Another proposition of yours is that of the old cycle, Mr. Maniro, because you want to stir and feed the conflict. The Basque Country said all the victims need reconnaissance and attention. That's exactly what we wanted to reflect on our corrections. We've been trying to rectify the middle-term agreements. To insert our corrections, it is not possible, but we agree with the first points of middle-way which we have generally expressed, but we think that there must still be more agreement in this matter. Our honesty is to admit what has happened in the past, but to respect all memory, the other to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Mr Barrio, representing the Basque Potula team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u60	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor. We do share Mr Maneiro's views in this non-legislative proposal and in the arguments he has also made in the rostrum. Many university professors in Euskadi suffered persecution, suffered the threat of terrorists, and had to live at risk for their lives by planting in front of intolerance and being clear, above all, that ETA was left in our society. And that is said from the university forum, in the classrooms themselves, in the academic forums, and also in the journalistic and social forums. Some had to end up abandoning Basque university life because of the threat and unbearable pressure. ETA has been the cause of much pain in the university family, both inside and outside the University of the Basque Country. Imagine the pain of the family of so many people linked to the university as teachers, as well as students. But imagine the pain of the family of Juan de Dios Doval, Professor of Processal at the University of the Basque Country, of the Faculty of Law of San Sebastián, murdered by ETA. Imagine the pain of the family of Francisco Tomás and Valiente, professor of the Autonomous University of Madrid and other universities; Ernest Lluch, professor at various universities, including Barcelona; Manuel Broseta, professor of commercial law at the University of Valencia; José María Lidón, professor of law at the University of Deusto; Manuel Jiménez Abad, professor linked to the universities of Navarre and Granada. Speaking of what you have experienced, Mr. Isasi, you have not condemned these murders, nor the pain that all the university professors who refer to Mr. Maneiro's non-law proposal and who of course we share, all this pain from all these families. You said, Mr. Isasi, "talking about the lived." I lived the murder of John of God Doval in the Faculty of Law of San Sebastian! I was a student in '79 at the San Sebastian Law School! The Professor of Procedural Law was killed. That murder of the UPV, speaking of the lived, you haven't condemned him, Mr. Isasi. You haven't condemned him. Even, he probably celebrated it. The report referred to was an interesting report, a reference report, and the report referred to the request for an outstanding tribute, a recognition of teachers. We do agree with that singularity, as with other tributes, of other recognitions, but we do understand that there is a singularity, there are special characteristics, references that we can share. The report "The teachers of the UPV against ETA" is clear. It says that some university professors led much of the discourse against ETA and generated the most active cores of citizen resistance. It wasn't free, they were persecuted for it. That is why he says this report, and we share, that "the Basque university deserves a specific look, but also the teachers who acted with courage and lucidity can now also present some important arguments for the regeneration of a society that drags the effects of the physical and symbolic violence of ETA and its world. His speech against lies, against the whitening of the image of murderers, against the new lobby of the ETA environment continues to be needed. Faced with the temptation of social or judicial impunity, disguised as a thousand clothes." Of course we share it. And of course we share all those efforts that have emerged from the university. Some also remembered Mr. Maneiro. The teachers' manifesto "We do not resign" of 18 December 1996. That manifesto was a step further against the strategy of the ETA world at the university. More than eighty professors of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Communication of the University of the Basque Country signed this manifesto: "We believe that our atony at events of this nature does not help to solve, in any way, a climate constantly nourished, not only by the actions to which we have referred, but by the omissions themselves. Let us not be fooled, it is not a problem that affects a few teachers, nor a problem that is academic only, but that the acceptance of democratic rules and the institutions emanating from them is at stake." Also that manifesto of the Ermua Forum: of the three hundred signatories of that manifesto, two hundred were professors of the Basque university, of the UPV. It was an unequivocal manifesto, and reference has also been made. Or that manifesto of 27 February 2002, entitled "The true situation of the Basque University". It was said, among other things, that "in the UPV, as in absolutely all Basque institutions, there is a mafia network that supports, justifies and exploits terrorism for its own benefit, without its collaboration with ETA being properly pursued, impunity that explains the long duration of a phenomenon that the vast majority of society repudiates". And the signing teachers of that manifesto warned that the persecution, aggression and attacks to which many students, administrative and themselves had been subjected had forced several of them to leave the UPV and seek refuge in other academic institutions where dignity, freedom and life were not threatened. That manifesto was talking about the mafia, Mr. Isasi. Another manifesto, the Teachers for Freedom platform of 2002 (reference has already been made), which was joined by 253 teachers from the University of the Basque Country. I would also like to recall the words of a professor who, through threats, also had to leave the University of the Basque Country, Carlos Fernández de Casadefante: "Every time there was an attack or a kidnapping," he said, "a group of teachers and students concentrated silently at noon while the others stood in front of us, insulted us and took pictures of us. Five minutes later, we all went back to school, we all shared the same room. Threatened, escorted, violent and indifferent." He also said the same teacher and denounced: "The University of the Basque Country has never done anything to keep the teachers under threat, or to help us. It has always made it easier for prisoners to study at university, but for teachers," he said, "to take a sabbatical year, to give no class, but no recognition." There's the questions, isn't there? They're reference elements. I believe that it makes us have arguments to support Mr Maneiro's initiative. That's why we share that the Basque government... , we think that it is he who is indicated for this, can lead that tribute, that recognition to the Basque university professors who faced terrorism and suffered its consequences. You can do it. I think it's an obligation too. You have to. We have tabled an additional amendment to make it possible for teachers who have promoted teaching in other universities to be recognized in this tribute as well. We have also reminded José María Lidon, professor of the University of Deusto, in my words, but there are also professors from other universities, no doubt, who share these values against intolerance and violence in the rest of the universities: in that of Mondragon surely, at the National University of Distance Education in its Basque headquarters. No doubt we do, and we all know reference persons. In conclusion, it does seem to us that we can make these reference and specific tributes. Each group attacked by ETA and terrorism has collective civic values, but also proposals and references that need to be remembered and that even need to be extolled with singularity. University professors are one of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u62	Mrs. President, good morning. Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. I'm here to defend the half-directional correction signed by the Social Party. And it must be said that this signed agreement, this half-serious correction, is very welcome to us. And we must also admit that it was easy to get this deal, it won't cost much, and in that sense I want to confess to the Social Party and Mr. Pastor. Anyway, I think it must have been by chance. In fact, in the course of recent years, we've been trying to agree with the Social Party and the Eucat Party for a long time and for most of the most part. And so it is this time too. The most prominent reflection of this is to remember the law of creating the Institute, the last important decision of this last legislature around memory, the fat man. And in that sense, today's correction simply follows that path. It has therefore been an easy agreement, because it involves the development of consensual public memory policies for a long time and which, as I said in Basque, have their most powerful expression in a law, which is the most powerful product of a parliament, the Law on the Establishment of the Institute of Memory, Coexistence and Human Rights. And the amendment, if they have had the opportunity to read it, is part of a support for any social and institutional initiative (but both: social, those born directly from the collectives, from civil society, and also from the institutions) that promotes the union between the victims and society, that puts in value the memory of the victims and their testimony, and that it does so also by sitting down in a critical reflection of the past that serves us, as we have insisted on many occasions, that it is also a guarantee of non-repetition. On the other hand, in the second point recognizes, it carries out a recognition and impulse of public policies of memory through the Gogora Institute, as it could not otherwise be. And on its third point, the Government is urged to continue to promote acts of recognition to all individuals and sectors that have suffered from terrorism and human rights violations, and, taking up the Socialist Party's proposal, calls for an act for all groups of victims of terrorism and of violence of persecution, which have been many and diverse in this country, and which we believe from an institutional act should be recognized and valued all as a whole. Because, if not, we run the risk, as Mr. Pastor pointed out, of leaving someone in the gutter or creating discrimination that has no justification. In that regard, I believe that the amendment in its entirety recognizes the importance of such acts, of such tributes, and urges the Government to carry them out, and in fact to continue with the policies of memory that it is already implementing. And, as I said, there have been many and diverse collectives who have suffered terrorism and persecution violence and who have borne witness (and not only – he spoke of the UPV – not only in the UPV, and in other universities, as pointed out: in institutes; and not only teachers: students), who have maintained the dignity of recognition and defence of the value of human rights and the position against any kind of terrorism, and especially that of ETA, and who have suffered in some cases the direct threat of terrorism, and in others a more deaf, but very sustained, violence of persecution, of aggression, and who has unfortunately not had the impact, the media echo and, in that sense, public support for at least one part of society, which the teachers referred to have had. And therefore, as we believe that our amendment, as Mr Maneiro himself sometimes defines, is balanced, clear and easily understood, I believe that he can receive the full support of all the groups in this House. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u64	Yes, thank you very much, President. Thank you very much to Mr Carmelo Barrio and to the whole People's Party for supporting this initiative, which we certainly think is absolutely just and necessary. Yes, Mr Iturrate, you understand perfectly well: you are against honoring and recognizing university professors who fought against ETA for years. And no wonder we're coming from you, or from all of you. That is the usual position in the history of the Basque Nationalist Party: to turn their backs, in one way or another, on people who have been threatened and persecuted by the terrorist gang. Therefore, it is perfectly understood. EH Bildu, the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party do not want an official recognition of those university professors who planted in front of ETA. This is the summary of today's debate. Because you can go ahead with all the recognitions and tributes you want to carry out, wider. What we are asking for is a specific tribute, because we are talking about concrete and specific people, and about the concrete work of the University of the Basque Country. And that is what we ask: a specific recognition, for the importance that the university and university professors have had in the fight against ETA. So, finally, beyond cheap talk, the truth is that EH Bildu, the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party do not want this tribute. Mr. Iturrate said there's a risk of leaving someone in the gutter. No, there's no risk. We are not saying that there should be no further tribute. We are saying that there are a number of people, citizens, teachers, who have not yet been recognized, nor by the University itself, who feel ill-treated, who have not been recognized, while the prisoners of ETA, therefore, have been benefited from certain academic prebendas. Here's the thing. But I'm saying I'm not surprised by the position of the Basque Nationalist Party. We can remember that thirteen days after the murder of Joseba Pagazaurtundua the president of the Basque Nationalist Party, Xabier Arzalluz, accused Stop Now! create a climate in favor of dirty war. That's his political trajectory. So how are you going to honor those teachers who were part of that platform, among others, if at the time, thirteen days after the murder of one of your members, you, by the mouth of your president, said nothing more and nothing less that you were working for the dirty war? They subsequently refused to vote in favour of the gold medal of the Andoain City Council in favour of the head of the local police killed by ETA. That is, therefore, their trajectory. And I certainly think that the fact that this initiative does not go ahead, will not go ahead, demonstrates perfectly the ethical and moral cowardice of a large part of this Basque Parliament, although it is clear that in the specific and specific case of the Basque Socialist Party many of its members, or all of them, have fought against ETA for years. But let this Parliament not finally ask the UPV and the Basque Government for a specific tribute to these teachers, in my opinion, not only demonstrates the ethical and moral cowardice of this Parliament, of much of this Parliament, but also demonstrates the ethical problem that Euskadi continues to have. What about the amendment of EH Bildu, which comes to justify the persecution suffered by dozens of teachers when again talking about the political conflict. There was no political conflict in that case. At the university there were teachers who were persecuted and there were members from within the university and outside the university, in the form of a terrorist gang, who persecuted those teachers who decided not to shut up in the face of ETA attacks. And, therefore, we propose to pay tribute to the victims, and what you and you come to propose is to pay tribute or apologize to the aggressors. That is, therefore, the reality. This amendment that you have signed runs counter to our initiative. Don't improve it. It is clear, because, indeed, it is understood, but it does not improve or complete it at all. They say no to a fair tribute that remains outstanding, because neither the UPV, which receives public funds, nor the Basque Government, has ever paid tribute or acknowledged to those teachers who did so much against ETA. Indeed, this initiative arises from the initiative presented by our MEP Maite Pagazaurtundua, but above all it arises from a situation that seems unfair to us, and because these teachers feel ill-treated. A few years ago an agreement was reached between the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi and UPyD specifically to pay tribute to the public offices persecuted by ETA, and you, Mr Pastor, had no problem signing that initiative and carrying out that tribute. We think that this collective is also specific and deserves such a tribute. On the other hand, there are other collectives who have already been honoured, or who have been honoured and are being honored. You and other political parties rightly pay tribute to your public office every year. We think it's right. Specifically, they pay tribute to them for the work they have done. What we are asking for is a specific tribute to these university professors, because it has not yet been done, and because it has not even been recognized that extraordinary work they have carried out for years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u65	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u66	I end by reading a phrase from Fernando Savater in the epilogue of this study and this report. He says that "this report does not speak strictly of victims, although some suffered from opposing the pro-earth pira: it speaks of the decent teachers who saved the university honor of a study center submissive to the thugs of separatism. We are still waiting for official recognition to be given to them, not for what they suffered but for what they fought for." Unfortunately, there is a majority in this Parliament who is against paying that tribute and I certainly find it sad and very embarrassing. Thank you, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u68	Yes, thank you, President. Yes, indeed, as Mr Isasi said, there has been an attempt by Bildu to approach the compromise amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, and I would like to thank him for that gesture, but it is true that they have again remained half way, in our view. In other words, the terminology used still sounded, unfortunately, another discourse of other times. And I cannot share with you that you, to talk about that other look and that other personal memory, compare the political and administrative tensions that lived in the Basque Country to get the Basque university district with the blackmail, harassment, threat and persecution that later suffered professors of that university. They are not comparable and they are not comparable, and I believe that this issue must begin to be taken up by you, because, if not, we will not really advance in a real policy of memory, which is true that it has to recognize all injustices and all violence, but they cannot be equated, because they are not equal, and morally they have different categories as well. And, Mr. Maneiro, I'm sorry to say this, but I can't accept that you accuse us of cowards, or I don't know how many more things. Flaco favor is done to those who intend to pay homage if you start by trying to use an initiative... that we have not criticized! It has seemed to us that it is much more logical, that it is more serious to pay tribute to all those who suffered harassment, who resisted fear and terror. And you give us the example of the tribute that has been paid in this Parliament, but it is that this Parliament was very competent to pay tribute to the Basque public offices threatened, because we are public offices that we are also in this Parliament. And we do not oppose, on the contrary, that the University of the Basque Country pays tribute to those teachers. The University of the Basque Country, Mr. Maneiro. Let us insist, and I publicly encourage from this rostrum the principals of the university to do so, but let us do everything where it belongs. If we want to make global memory policies, if we want to honor very important sectors of this society, much more than we should have ever been, let us do it through an institute that we have created and that we share a leadership council on the part of all the political forces, and where we have the opportunity to express and propose all those memory policies..., or to criticize those that are made, but in any case it is the forum that we have all endowed ourselves with. I want to remain in any case with the positive that we have been able to reach a great political agreement with a very important parliamentary support, to give way and ask the Basque Government, through the institute of which we are all part, to carry out this great act of tribute to all those collectives who suffered threats, terror, harassment, blackmail or persecution on this earth, and which unfortunately were very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. From EH Collect, Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u70	Mrs. President of the Parliament. When I accepted the commitment to the EHG, I had many reasons to come to this congress from the university. One of them was peace, an engagement to peace. Another was engaged with the political criterion I had since my youth, this people suffered, suffered, suffered in the language of the oppressed, and I took a political commitment to it. And I didn't give in, and I wouldn't give up. A lot of injustice has happened, that's true. We collect and I, we don't know some violences and others, appreciate what's happened as a whole. And I'm not ready, we're not ready to leave a lot of people behind the thread of what's happened and to prolong the suffering more. We're not ready for that. We have to rebuild our partnership, that's true. But among you all, taking over what each one has done, accepting and accepting that this stage is over. And what lies behind this initiative is rejected and denied, there is a denial of us. I was at the university when Puig Antichi was given a garrote vil and I came from that fight. It is true, and I admit that EH Collect admits that it is necessary to observe with all the murders and violence that have been here. It is necessary, and we have shown that we are ready for it. We're not ready for that political usage. And precisely in this opposition, that equal violence, we introduce this event. That's why we don't protect him, because we forget others. I was also a teacher in college, of Peio Argiña, when a prisoner died of AIDS in a Paris prison. I was at the university when some of the colleagues were arrested, for no reason, for instance in the brief 18/98. I was a teacher in college when some of my students were arrested and tortured. All that sort of thing has happened and it's stuck in my memory. I have suffered when my colleague and I have threatened them, and I have suffered with other colleagues, when the institutions at the far right threatened us, in personal and collective ranks. And I'm not educating this. It's not the ethics or the esthetic problem, Mr. Maniro. Behind here, whether you accept it or not, there's a political problem. This political problem has brought me here and we will continue fighting for this political problem and for peace. That's why we thought it interesting and we tried. But we've tried our point of view. Because I say that again, I won't give up, probably not even EH Collect. But I will not give way for biographies, for political reasons, for ethical reasons, for morality, and for a profound reason: it is impossible for us to rebuild in this country if we leave hundreds of people, thousands of people. We have to society with these people, and we have to admit that what happened to those people has happened. Not justification, but that we are members of an historic period we all have shared. No justification, no comparison between the violetes, but, as far as I'm concerned, we'll still continue to work for peace. We'd like to ask for our side that we can direct the midway to vote on points. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u72	Thank you, President. I say again that, in this dissolution of the issues that we are dealing with lately on these issues, but that we do believe that we can make those specific tributes, Mr Pastor, those reference tributes. I say again that there are many collectives attacked by ETA, and each with its characteristics, and all with them. But it is true that each collective attacked by ETA and terrorism has these collective civic values, together, but also their own and reference values in relation to each and every one of them, but their own, unique, and that it is also necessary to remember and exalt singularly. We do understand that this is possible, and that it is good, and that it is beneficial, because the members of the Forces and Bodies of the State, the judges, the councillors, the university professors, all share collective, but also singular, collective civic values. And we understand that, and that is why we have shared the opinion of the proposing group. I don't understand, really, I don't understand why they don't want a singular recognition of Basque university professors threatened by ETA. I don't understand, I can't understand. I don't understand the amendment, I don't understand it. We're in Parliament! Why bring Gogora in? We're in Parliament! Gogora will implement policies, but we are here in Parliament, Gogora will have to do what we tell him to do, or the government in his case. And that's why we're trying to urge the government. Gogora is an institute that will have to do what this Parliament tells you, or in any case what the government tells you, but we can do an approach of these characteristics. I don't know why you're instrumentalizing Gogora! It will give of itself what it gives of itself, but we make a demanding approach, and also logical and serious. You spoke before logical and serious, Mr. Pastor. Well, I think the point is logical and serious, and it has to be shared by us. Of course, Mr Isasi's approaches are clearly being forced. That is, he talks about issues to escape the reality, the pending subject that he and his group have. He's telling us about Puig Antich... We all in this Parliament condemn the death penalty, all of us. He tells us about the threats of the far right... We all condemn the threats and action of the extreme right, all of us. And in those commitments to which you alluded, Mr. Isasi, when you came here, you forgot one. You were talking about very general commitments, general approaches, but you forgot a compromise. So, you have forgotten..., that commitment you do not assume, which is, look, the condemnation of the violence that led ETA to murder a colleague of his, the violence of the murder of Juan de Dios Doval, Professor of Procesal Law of the University of the Basque Country, of the Faculty of Law of San Sebastián, our professor. I was there, I was a student of that faculty. That commitment to you has been forgotten, Mr. Isasi. It's your pending subject. I guess it'll piss you off a lot. I hope it hurts them; I think it bothers them at the moment. But if it hurts them the same day, they are reflecting on that commitment that you still have pending in relation to the university in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u74	President andrea. One, or some, should be accustomed, if it were by repetition, to slanders, lies, to Mr. Maneiro's insults every time he refers to the Basque Nationalist Party and its men and women throughout history, that many of them have given public testimony for a long time, since the beginning, since the year 78. Because you spoke and referred to 1996, to the first manifesto of professors of the UPV: in 1978 the first demonstration was called against ETA in the streets, and it was filled with men and women of the Basque Nationalist Party. But, even though for time it seemed like you should get used to it, you never get used to slander or immorality or lowness. And, therefore, we are not going to get nervous about it, but we are going to continue to uphold the same principles of defending human rights and confronting any terrorism or violence that we have maintained. Look, it's not true what you said that the PNV doesn't want to pay tribute to the victims. The PNV does not want to dance the water to you, nor to your immorality and the moral lowness of dividing the victims, as it does on many occasions, into good and bad according to their ideology. And if you are a victim who participates, for example, in the Adi-Adian programme of the Basque Government, or in the Glencree meetings, you do not deserve any recognition, and if you are victims who, in addition to being victims of ETA, have not only a belligerent stance against ETA, but a political stance against nationalism, then you do deserve tribute. Because you've escaped, when you were talking about teachers, who decided to face "compulsory nationalism." Moreover, for them – just to read their writings – mandatory nationalism was all Basque nationalism, not only that which was intended to force from a position of violence or terrorism. Of course, not Spanish nationalism. That was not mandatory nationalism. To be corrected below: compulsory nationalism... and terrorism. No, no! The problem is that what you are trying to highlight is those who faced nationalism. Because here, Mr. Maneiro, many people faced ETA (teachers, students...), but not all who faced it, neither teachers nor students, nor journalists, nor entrepreneurs, did it by commuling or defending the postulates of the Forum of Ermua or Basta already. And those for you do not deserve any recognition, because you are using, as always, the victims and the pain, and the fight against terrorism, to make political advantage. The problem, its problem, is that, despite these efforts, political vantageism has had little effect on it. At least Mr. Barrio has had the decency to appoint professors who did not commune with those postulates, and he has appointed Professor Pello Salaburu or Professor Javier Elzo. But you don't: you have only referred to people who defend your ideology and your anti-nationalist obsessions. Look, speaking of trajectories (you were referring to the trajectory of the former President of the Euskadi Buru Batzar), speaking of trajectories, there are a few among the signatories, among the two hundred signatories, who before signing that manifest were engrossing the ranks of ETA in one of their different branches, or glossing it or were proselytes of ETA at least. And, therefore, welcome all of them, all of them, to the fight against terrorism and for human rights for all people and everywhere, but, as I have said on some other occasion, and paraphrasing Don Manuel de Irujo in response to Dionisio Ridruejo, "The converts, to the tail". Therefore, lessons the just. We, Mr. Isas, we don't want to get rid of anybody. But, as is said of obstinacy, he who has the name has had it. And in that sense, your problem is that you don't name some people, you don't name them to terrorisms or violences, or to maintain your position against some people, or nameless names. And that's what makes it harder for them to come to the agreements. And the last order, you've asked us to vote on points. I, actually, never had a problem, I told you before. There is a maxim, which is called a sentence in philosophy, "la regla all," and says: Trata como te gustaría ser treatedo o colada. And I thought that, at the first point of today, Mrs. Blanco's attitude and the attitude of the EH Bilt, she treated us as you would like to be treated, and that in that sense you wouldn't want to vote on points. But in this sense Immanuel Kant's "Crítica de la racón pracha" says in his development: "Actú de mudo que pueda ignorante quere que tu máxima de acción se vuelva una, universali ale, lo tant, nos vamos a oponer, a pesar de la volunt de la señora Blanco y EH, no nos vamos a oponer a sete pores." Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of the other proposal, as well as the UPD team. (Buzzlely.) We'll throw him out again. We'll vote for the amendments to add to the population party first. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 11. The opposites, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u76	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the original text of the UUPyD bill as well. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 11. The opposites, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u77	So he didn't accept it. Next, the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. A vote has been requested. Please, how would that be? [[Pause]] 1 and 2 points of middle course. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters, 62; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u78	So they've been accepted with 1 and 2 points. Next, we vote for number three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 41; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstain, 32.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u79	As a result, the third point is also accepted. The fifth point in the theme list: "To gather together the law-making proposition concerning the international recommendations against torture by the Spanish Kingdom. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, meet EH. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. This Saturday is February 13th, 35 years old, that Joxe Argrei was killed by torture. "It was very hard," was his last words, before the death of those who were told by the rest of the political prisoners. Before him the Basques died in barracks and police stations, and after him and after him the Basques died in the police stations and barracks. Many groups and associations in favor of the human rights of the Basque Country confirm their commitment on the 13th of February to the end of torture once and for all. In this direction, even for this weekend, many actions and events are organized. By this sense, we wish to proclaim confession and observation to all the victims of torture, and to insist on the necessity of establishing certain guarantees necessary not to repeat torture. We speak of torture and the victims of torture. In the definition which the united nations make of torture, there appear three elements: a public officer to inflict severe physical or mental sufferings on a certain purpose. That's what makes us argue today, that's what we want to talk about. Perhaps some of them will like to speak of other matters in this enterprise today, but the substance is this, and I hope they will not escape from it. So this is what we are talking about today. The several International institutions have discussed the Spanish State as a matter of torture. They've given general advice, but they've also studied the facts, Encarni Blanco, Chepa Urra, Orkatz Galasto, and Maria Achabal. The Court of Human Rights in Europe has in many cases condemned them not to investigate Spain; The result of these international institutions has been extremely generous, and has not been the attention which the State has made to them. The Spanish Kingdom has not taken any step from what has been said. I have spoken of Patxi Erritabel, and I wish to bring to him a case of the whole of today, which includes almost all the elements of torture. The Civil Guard detained five young Navarros on 18 January 2011 on the orders of Judge Grande-Marlaska, accused of being part of the political organization Ekin. They were incommunicado for five days. One of the detainees, Patxi Arratibel, signed his police statement with a gallimacy: "Atz Nugal". The officers did not repair the gesture; they had what they were looking for, what they needed, that is, their self-incrimination extracted under torture. The signature, that gallimatías, did have a meaning: "Azt Nugal" is "laguntza" written backwards, "help" in Basque. Patxi Arratibel demanded help from the Civil Guard. Help with what? Help who I was asking for? Why can someone think of something like that? Under what conditions are you in order to do something like this? Is it really the statement that is signing a voluntary statement? Why call for help, in a way besides that they can't detect those cops who are guarding him? What's the message? The message was explained to Judge Grande-Marlaska when it was put before him, at his disposal: he had suffered torture. From these tortures he had extracted a text, a statement he did not recognize, a text that forced him to sign. However, the self-incriminating statement he signed was sufficient for the judge to send him and his colleagues to prison. They spent about a year and a half in pre-trial detention, dispersed in different prisons in the Spanish State. While in prison they were visited by CEPT, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture, in May 2011. CEPT released a report in 2013, which reads: "The delegation received credible and consistent allegations of ill-treatment of the people with whom it conducted interviews." This Parliament knows this report because we discussed it in this House two years ago, and it has already voted in favour of its recommendations for implementation. In May 2015, the European Court of Human Rights sentenced Spain for failing to investigate Patxi Arratibel's complaint of torture. Now, the Strasbourg Court is still investigating the case of another detainee in that same operation, Xabier Beortegi. With these precedents, and despite having all the ingredients on the table to question the charge against them, the National High Court will soon be brought to trial, facing eight years in prison for purely political and social activities in the Ekin agency. This is the drama we want to refer to today. This is the scandal that we are bringing to the debate today. In this context, the committee against the torture of the United Nations, which has the acronym of English CAT, examined the State of Spain in the April year's April, in order to publish the convention against torture. He's already fired off the usual worries and recommendations. The other, in the report which CAT had fired, asked the Spanish State to re-establish the claim of incommunication in order to abolish it. He's also asking him to have a personal recording apparatus secured at police headquarters in order to get investigators, arrests, and be available to their lawyers. Among the CAT recommendations one must also remark: they ask for the two victims of torture and ill-treatment, and for the proper payment of damage, and also for the most perfect rehabilitation. He demands also that the Spanish State may extend the data and information of the commission. In this sense he requires that the State of Spain should struggle with impunity for the investigation of torture, and that the execution of the torture should be tried, and that the offender should be punished with such penalties as acknowledge the gravity of the crime. In cases of torture, the Indudols ought to be prohibited in the Julian institution, as this institution of the United Nations requires. It is not the first time that these demands extend to the Spanish Government, for recommendations are repeated over and over again, these reviews are repeated over and over again, these concerns are repeated from the international community. And the state takes no action, proposing the boredom of the international community. To-day we requested that CAT appreciate these recommendations, and that the Instinitive commitment to the Spanish Government to the convention against the torture may act efficiently. We believe that to the thread of the CAT report, to confess and observe the persons who have suffered the evils of torture and treatment, we must consider the proper and effective means of observation. Also, to abolish the exceptional legislation which facilitates torture, to cancel the incommunication, and to demand an operatification of this exceptional law, namely, the national audience, in our original initiative. This was our proposal and this was our position. We have been informed that EAJ and PSE have signed a medium, which is not exactly what we point to, but demands that the recommendations fired by CAT should be taken notice of. And it's not as full or firm as we proposed, we can say it's warmer, but we'll protect it. I think it's important to establish a distinct common ground for the torture. I think it's interesting to spread the support of this Parliament for the recommendations of these international organisms that are being thrown against torture and torture. I believe that the decision to-day puts us sincerely in the direction of the confession and observation of the tortures and tortures, which we project in some way to the future. That's why, as I say, we'll support the medium where EAJ and PSE have brought it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u82	Thank you, President. Well, so that there is no doubt, the socialists have always been, and we continue to be, against torture and any kind of ill-treatment of persons detained or detained, whether physical or psychological. We are therefore in favour of implementing all measures that are useful in preventing these unacceptable conditions, as well as investigating each case, and strictly applying the law to those responsible. That is our conviction, but also a legal and moral imperative. I remind you that article 15 of the Spanish Constitution expressly states: "Everyone has the right to life and to physical and moral integrity, without under any circumstances being subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment". And if this mandate of the Constitution is not sufficient, the Spanish State is obliged to actively prevent and combat this scourge by the international treaties and conventions it has signed, especially the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, signed in 1984. It must also be said, because it is a historic fact, that there have been many more cases of torture and ill-treatment of detainees in our country than desirable, especially in the early years of the democratic process and focused, albeit not only, on the fight against terrorism. It should also be recognized that in some cases there was also a lack of diligence and will in the investigation, and in others, who ended up in convictions, there was inadequately pardoned the perpetrators. And I have to remember this because Mr Arzuaga brings us this non-law proposal as if torture is a daily practice in our country, and its perpetrators have total and absolute impunity. And it is true that the UN Committee against Torture has been making various recommendations and requests in its reports on Spain for better implementation of the commitments contained in the Convention, and that in its sixth five-year report, to which Bildu's initiative refers, it expresses some concerns and reiterates recommendations. But it is also true that the committee also appreciates the positive aspects and welcomes the improvements made with regard to the last report, just as it is true that even in the reports on the most compliant countries the committee always finds something that recommends improving or correcting. But, well, I have already said that my group has not put or is going to put any excuse in the strictest demand for an elementary human right. On the contrary, the amendment that we have tabled, agreed here with the Basque Nationalist Party, reflects our position and our commitment in this area. Finally, you will recognize me in any case, Mr Arzuaga, who is striking the asymmetry that Bildu still shows in his concern for human rights, which leads me to think that the emphasis he places on torture, which I recognize to be genuine, also has another scope and objective, within that effort of the left abertzale for trying to whiten even a little bit the terrorism of ETA, in the search for a narrative that balances the unjustified and illegitimate violence of ETA with the excesses of the State Security Forces in its repression. We would have liked you to show the same sensitivity as you now show about some human rights in the case of the murders of ETA, because the first of them is the right to life and physical integrity. Nor would it have been wrong if they had claimed that ETA should also apply the Convention against Torture and Inhuman Treatment to those who had been held in more than unworthy conditions. The case is that in Euskadi, at least publicly, no one has publicly justified torture, but we have heard, however, a few years ago, on the left abertzale flaunt ETA's crimes. I still have in my memory and it sounds to me in my ear that of "Aldaia, pay and quiet", which launched those who boycotted the concentrations we made, against the kidnapped businessman. So, with this background, and with the task of critically reviewing his past of support and collusion against terrorism, we find it a little daring to rely on the Committee against Torture to affirm in his proposal what the UN report does not say. Because it does not claim that the Spanish State does not have the will to eliminate torture definitively, nor does it systematically protect torturers, nor does it hinder any complaint of that reality. That's what you say, not the report. Mr Arzuaga, the Socialists can and do share some terms of your proposal, especially the will to prevent and pursue any such episode, but we cannot ignore the spirit with which Bildu brings that debate, nor the intentions that he seems to have in raising it. And I am glad and acknowledge the gesture of announcing, however, that it will support the compromise amendment that we have tabled. I think it's a positive step that I recognize. But human rights are not fractionable, they are a whole, and they cannot be chosen according to what is appropriate to the cause that each one defends, and the same is true of the United Nations conventions. You have historically had a kind of congenital inclination to develop hypersensitivity to certain human rights violations, which were most convenient for your cause, while dressing with a kind of rhinoskin so as not to have to condemn the criminal violence systematically practised against the rest by ETA, until you left. And it is true that we must demand respect for human rights, of course, but all human rights, for everyone and on every occasion, Mr Arzuaga. That's what we wanted to tell you. I remain on the positive side of having managed to achieve a compromise that seems to me to be strong and balanced, and I acknowledge the effort you are making on this occasion to support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. President, Congressman. The third time in this law of the Basque People, as opposed to torture, is a proposition to this Chamber. In the two preceding stages of this law the Parliament has accepted the proclamations against torture, and in the two preceding days the Basque People are gathered together, and this proclamation has been executed by the votes of the Jeltist Party, or by the corrections of the middle-class. The third or fourth question is therefore this subject in this law; and, as has been said, I shall not repeat the reasons and dispositions that appeared in the foregoing controversies; they are known, and are written on the terms of the legislature, and every one is available to read and know. The novelty of this day is not so much content as the signs of the middle course are the most important nobedade. And it's not just a formal question, it's not an insignificant formality. For my group it is indeed very satisfactory that Parliament is going to show today a position, a pronouncement (not just an intervention, a pronouncement) which will be fixed in a statement, in a non-legislative proposal, with a much broader majority than it has done so far. I think that is really very satisfactory, and we also thank the Socialist Party for the willingness to agree, which on the other hand has been very simple. We didn't take much longer than... little time to agree on the text. And I believe that the text is sufficiently clear as to what position any democratic political party and any democratic chamber should express or pronounce in the face of the phenomenon of torture. In this sense, there are three points. In the first of these, Parliament urges the public authorities to ensure that all detained persons are treated in accordance with human rights and dignity. And we say "the public authorities" because we mean all of them: all the governments and police forces of the state, the judiciary... Finally, to all those concerned, not only in the custody of persons detained or detained, but also in the protection and defence of their rights, their rights and their dignity in accordance with international standards and legislation itself, both State and international, as Mr. Pastor said. The second point takes into account – and I think it is important for Parliament to do so formally – the recently published report (not so recently; recently it was at the time when the non-law proposal was tabled) by the UN Committee against Torture. I believe that this is an important recognition, that it should do so, and that it should do so with the majorities with which it is going to do so today, and that it should comply with the recommendations contained in this report. And that implies a commitment to these principles of the political leaders who are part of the two parties that we present this initiative, and a commitment to the adequacy of public actions and actions in the management of public authorities with respect to these principles. And he does one more thing, and I think it is also remarkable, which is to express his solidarity with all those who have suffered torture and ill-treatment. Because, as we have said on many occasions, human rights violations require the same response in all cases, and the victims the same treatment and the same inspiring principles in the response of the public authorities. Thirdly, the public authorities, all of them, are urged to commit themselves to rigorously and diligently debugging public servants in this area, and especially judges and prosecutors to be particularly active in investigating allegations of ill-treatment and torture. I am not going to insist, therefore, on something that we have already repeated on other occasions: on behaviors that must be banished, on actions that have been and that have merited even international judicial reproach. I sincerely believe that any person or group committed to human rights and their defence can not only, but should support this initiative today. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u85	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is de.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u86	Yes, thank you, President. UPyD condemns all human rights violations. UPyD condemns Franco's military uprising. UPyD condemns the Franco dictatorship. UPyD condemns all terrorist gangs. UPyD condemns ETA. UPyD condemns any kind of torture and opposes any kind of torture. We have always demonstrated this, both outside and within this Parliament. In fact, in October 2009, we even presented a concrete initiative to address this situation, and we proposed to urge the Government of Spain to promote the introduction of recording systems in all places of detention, in order to guarantee the rights of both detainees and agents. We even proposed to urge the Interior Department of the Basque Government to adopt, as soon as possible, a protocol specifying how images and sounds should be captured, reproduced and processed within places of detention, as well as their registration, preservation and access, precisely in order to avoid cases that must, of course, be denounced by any type of democrat. Therefore, UPyD's position is clear. The problem, Mr Arzuaga, is that you have no democratic legitimacy, nor of any kind, to raise anything to do with or to propose any kind of measure or condemnation of any kind of torture. You have no legitimacy whatsoever to propose anything against torture as long as you do not condemn ETA, which has been the greatest torture we have experienced in recent years in Euskadi. And the truth is that today you don't condemn ETA, and in the past, in one way or another, you supported your criminal trajectory. Therefore, as long as you do not carry out that exercise of condemning ETA, you have no legitimacy whatsoever. You were talking about scandal. The scandal is that there are political representatives who justify ETA and have room in this Parliament. That's a scandal. And one still major scandal is that there are citizens who for years have supported the murder of fellow citizens, and that has happened in Euskadi and the rest of Spain for decades. That is the biggest scandal, and along with that scandal his political position in support of ETA and his refusal to condemn ETA. Therefore, you do not have the legitimacy to put forward any kind of initiative against torture. You must remain silent on this issue. They should only be able to speak to say basically two things: to condemn ETA, and to ask for forgiveness. I hope they can do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. You said, Mr Arzuaga, that we should not escape the issue and that we should talk about it. Well, I am going to start by focusing on the subject, and I am going to start with a statement that we all probably share in this House; with an unequivocal condemnation, a condemnation that this group has always made, provided that a similar subject has been discussed in this House: torture is never, ever, admissible under any pretext. The People's Group condemns and rejects any practice of torture or ill-treatment. We want to make it clear: against torture, zero tolerance. And we also ask and demand that the full weight of the law should fall on those involved in these practices of torture or ill-treatment, because democracy is only worth the rule of law, the application of the law, and when human rights violations are committed, all the weight of the law must fall on the perpetrators. We condemn torture as we condemn any human rights violations. But I ask you, Mr. Arzuaga: can you do and say the same thing? Can they, with the same force and clarity that they bring this complaint here today, condemn and denounce the systematic (that is, systematic) human rights violations carried out for decades by ETA? Can you condemn the torture that ETA inflicted on so many victims? Can you, with the same clarity and constancy, condemn the torture to which Miguel Ángel Blanco was subjected, to which they held for forty-eight hours and at the end they shot him in the back of the neck? Can you condemn the 532 days of torture to which ETA subjected prison officer Ortega Lara put in a rut? Doesn't that sound like torture to you? Can you condemn her? Can you condemn them wanting to leave him buried alive? Can you ask here, with all force, that, in the same way that I ask that all the burden of the law be on those who torture, that it be on the terrorists of ETA? Because besides, do you know what the difference is between you and us? Do you know the difference between torture and crimes committed by ETA? That we ask the torturers to be punished, while those who tortured in ETA were made chiefs and the left abertzale cheered them, and, if not, kept, as you continue to keep, a shameful silence. Look, as we have all said here, to be able to denounce we must have legitimacy, and to be able to denounce torture we must denounce all human rights violations. Only then, Mr. Arzuaga, do you have legitimacy. Because what you're trying to do is show that Spain is not a democratic state of law, and that's why ETA had to commit the murders he committed for a long time. You seek to show that in Spain torture is a systematic exercise, a usual practice, and, in addition to wanting to extend that it is systematically tortured, you also want to extend the idea that such torture is not pursued in Spain. I will read you some statements: "Torture is not an endemic evil of Spain, there are no systematic torture in Spain." These sentences are not mine, they were pronounced in the Congress of Deputies. But they were not pronounced either by anyone in my political group, but by Mr Sixto Iglesias, of Izquierda Plural. The Chairman of the UN Committee against Torture himself stated at the meetings on 28 and 29 April last year that there was no systematic problem of inhuman treatment or torture in Spain. This is not the first time that you have brought an initiative of this kind to the House, because you do not intend to denounce the alleged torture and ill-treatment, the torture that has been committed and that has to be denounced in the appropriate place, in police or judicial headquarters, that after that complaint are investigated, and, if their reality is proved, that they are punished. But his concern with that initiative is not this, and it is not the compliance with international treaties, no. You do not intend to take that report into consideration. As I said to you, what you intend to do is to show that Spain is not a democratic state of law, that it is a torturer state, that it is a state that protects and allows ill-treatment, that causes suffering, that it is the counterpart to the suffering caused by ETA. That's their goal, to put on every plate of the scale a suffering. That is why you are systematically presenting initiatives of this kind in this House, to see if, by force of presenting them and presenting them, the idea ends up shutting down. I suppose it will be part of your political group's manual, the same way you have manuals for other issues, as I will then refer to. In Spain, the use of methods used by the State Security Forces and Corpses is profusely regulated, and in Spain, as in any democratic rule of law, it is subject to the rule of law. Therefore, the State Security Forces and Bodies are also subject to the rule of law, and subject to disciplinary and jurisdictional controls. Where there is a complaint, the Spanish legal system has provided for and regulated that administrative and judicial bodies acting independently investigate alleged criminal acts. You speak here... He has not made a reference today, but on other occasions he often talks about the innumerable number of complaints. One thing is complaints, another is convictions for torture. And you want to show that the few convictions, which do not correspond to torture, are because they are not pursued. No! No! This lack of correspondence between complaints and torture is because systematically, by a manual (systematically, by a manual), it was denounced. And it's not an unsubstantiated statement. That manual, "Atxiloketari aurre eginez", seized Igor Portu and Martin Sarasola, and it was literally said that the coroner had to be told that he had been physically and psychologically tortured, and that the judge had to be told what you said here that they had stated to Judge Marlaska: that the statement made at police headquarters had been made under torture. That was in a manual. That was in a manual, and it was the usual course of action for detainees accused of ETA terrorism. That is why the number of complaints is high and does not correspond to those which are actually subsequently sentenced. You're talking about reports. Well, the report to which I referred says that the committee, for example, appreciates the drastic decrease in incommunicado detention. And he notes with interest – at the time it was in progress – the existence of the project aimed at amending the Criminal Procedure Act to regulate incommunicado detention much more strictly. The European Committee for the Prevention of Torture in its report also notes that the cooperation received by the Spanish Administration was excellent, that the delegation had rapid access to all places of detention, that it could meet without witnesses with all the persons with whom it wished to do so, and that it was provided with all the information requested. And the UN Rapporteur for Torture also noted that the efforts of the Government of Spain to promote human rights in the fight against terrorism and to promote tolerance and solidarity in the treatment of detainees are to be taken into account. You request in your initiative that everyone who has been subjected to torture and ill-treatment be given the rights that assist him, have the right to his recognition, reparation and non-repetition, and stress the commitment to put in place adequate and effective means for his realization. The truth is, he's Kafkian. And those rights are going to have them, why? Why does Parliament say that? What do you mean, they didn't have them before? The commitment to put in the right means who buys it? Parliament? Haven't those means been put in so far? He's talking about repealing anti-terrorist legislation. First of all, such anti-terrorist legislation exists because terrorism exists, and, in addition to the fact that ETA has not yet been dissolved, jihadist terrorism also exists. And you want to see that this specific legislation for terrorist crimes only exists in Spain, and that is not the case. It's not like that. With regard to anti-terrorism legislation, we have to say that in Germany, France, Italy, Portugal and the United Kingdom they also have specific regulations for terrorist offences. That, following the 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, 2004 in Madrid, 2005 in London, there is a tightening in Europe of legislation regulating terrorist offences. Of course, the toughest legislation against this type of crime is not the Spanish one, nor much less. One of the toughest is the UK, and I can give you examples later. With regard to incommunicado detention, as I have told you, one of the reports referred to it, but finally the Criminal Prosecution Act has restricted it. It can only be done by judicial authorization, on an exceptional basis, and at this time it is the judge who decides whether it is all, some or none of the rights of the detainee from whom he is going to be dispensed. With regard to the National Court, they noted that it did not comply with procedural guarantees, noting that it was aware of torture and did not carry out the necessary investigations, and admitted as evidence statements made under torture. And you wanted Parliament to approve that statement! Because that, more than a statement, what it is... really, it looks more like a propaganda pamphlet. Because that's what you bring here with this, that's your interest: propaganda. I don't know for what purpose, of course, I don't know for what purpose, but what you bring here is propaganda; propaganda for your purposes. What matters the least is compliance with international treaties. And, of course, this group is not going to cooperate with that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u89	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing by the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Azuga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pastor appreciates my intention or my will, but it is because I come with a concession: so far such a decision has never been established between EH Collect, PSE and EAJ. It's true that two years ago we had such a discussion about the recommendations Mr. CPT made, and that Mr. Unzalus then made to come with the other teams to the center and had almost a pen in his hand to sign it, when somebody told him not to do it. I think an order from above told him not to sign. We sign today. It's been two years. Then I think it's only because of this initiative today that's justified. You speak to me, Mr Pastor, also of asymmetry in our attitude, and I have to tell you that perhaps asymmetry is in the treatment that is being offered to certain victims. While with some victims there is a reaction... I'm going to say profuse on the part of the justice, the police, any kind of field of investigation, for others the reaction is zero. While for some there is a truth, there is a justice and a memory, other victims can be spoken of, torture exists, but there are no tortures, there are no torturers. There's a nebula. Mercedes Enquireta, Manuel Tomás, Antonio Goñi, Juanjo Munduate, Jokin Valcárcel, Joxe Arregi, Esteban Muruetagoiena, Mikel Zabalza, Gurutze Iantzi, Juan Calvo, Xabier Kalparsoro... Of course, they're names, they're names of people who haven't been investigated and died at the police station. They entered alive and left dead, or died in the days immediately after their release. These people are neither known nor recognized. And that is precisely the initiative we are bringing today, and that is precisely why we rely on the recommendations of the international bodies to bring it. It is true that I interpret a part of what these bodies are saying and that leads me to think that, if they are requesting the repeal of incommunicado detention, what they are requesting is the repeal of the emergency laws and the court that is applying them. And that's why I brought it to my initiative. And I also understand that international bodies must be fed up, because this is the sixth time they repeat exactly... in this case CAT, which repeats exactly similar recommendations for consideration. I will go through Maneiro's statements a little quickly, because it seems that he is the one who marks what democratic legitimacy is, what can be said, how we should express ourselves, in what terms..., which must be very democratic, from his point of view. But I do want to go in too, to mention some of the issues that Mrs Llanos says, which requires the equal application of the weight of the law for all. What happens is that the law is seven hundred tons in some cases, and it's pen weight when we're referring to cases like the ones I bring here today. I say again, there is torture, but there are no torturers. There's torture, but there's no torture. A person comes and throws a testimony, says: "I have suffered torture". He may or may not be believed, but it is the Committee against Torture who comes to say that he has been subjected to an incommunicado regime, that he has not been guaranteed the right of all detainees to legal aid, to communicate with his legal representative, that for five days he has not been able to contact his relatives, who have not even been informed of what state he is in, where he is in, where he is in, he has not been able, according to the Committee against Torture, to have access to an independent doctor... Well, then this person has a testimony, and the United Nations is giving me a framework. From my point of view, one finding is that absolutely all the mechanisms to verify what is happening during that period of incommunicado detention have failed. There is a term of law, which is that those who ask the most ask for less, and that is precisely why we are going to support the initiative that you bring. We put the bar above, but we can also assume what you bring us. And we also do so from a point of view that we believe that... at least I hope that today will open up an opportunity so that we can begin to treat the victims of torture as victims not of the sixth category, but of the first category, that we begin to know what these people have suffered. It seems that Paco Etxeberria is going to bring a report in which there are already more than 5,000 entries from people who claim to have suffered torture. I hope they can be recognized, I hope they can be repaired, I hope they can be assured that what happened will not happen again. And in a town as small as this one gives me the impression that five thousand people who have suffered torture do say that there has been a torturing state and that their practice has been systematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Pastor... ? Mr. Iturate... ? Not even. Missita's not here. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u92	Yes, thank you again, Madam President. You have read, Mr Arzuaga, the names of some people who are victims of torture. If I had to read the names of people whose murders we're still waiting for you to condemn, it would have taken a lot longer. Moreover, Mr Basagoiti did this exercise once here in this House, and he practically ran out of time for the intervention. As much as you come here again and again to say that there is systematic torture in Spain, it is not true. That's not true. That's not true. That there's been torture? Yeah. What do you have to punish? Also. That we condemn torture? Also. And it is not Mr. Maneiro who says who has legitimacy or not. That's obvious. Anyone who condemns all human rights violations is entitled to make a conviction. Who makes a selection in the conviction, who makes a selective conviction, who seems to him that the victims of the crimes of torture are first-class victims, but the victims of ETA... I don't know what category they should be to you, but they don't even deserve to be convicted on your part, you certainly don't have any legitimation. None, Mr. Arzuaga. None. And with regard to the amendment tabled by those who already seem to be partners in government (and we have already seen two agreements here, right?But I also say one thing: to condemn torture, for this group to condemn torture, it is not necessary to vote for an amendment to follow the game to a matter that is systematically brought here by the representatives of Bildu. We condemn torture, but in that amendment that you present here make a number of statements that seem to question – and that is why you are going to vote in favour – they seem to question the commitment that the public authorities of Spain, the commitment that all democrats have to pursue torture. And they seem to question the actions being taken by the Government of Spain. And many of these things, such as the fact that this report is being taken into consideration, have already been said by the Government of Spain that it is being taken into consideration. And look, we do not need here today to present an amendment or vote an amendment to make it clear that we condemn torture. But what we are not going to do is follow the game to these gentlemen in that continuous maneuver to which we are accustomed, which is to put the democratic and rule-of-law state in check. That's why they don't count on us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u93	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u94	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and by the Eucariats. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters, 62; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u95	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. We interrupt the entire meeting until 15:45. It was two and nineteen in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-six.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u96	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "As the Socialists of Euskal have made a team of parliamentary proposals, about the proposal that the Eu-Daddy of Eustate has made to him by a syndicate delegation. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a proposal. Mrs Sánchez, the Basque Socialist represents the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome to the plenary the representation of the workers of the collective of inspectors and surveyors of the Eustat affected by the initiative that we bring to the plenary this afternoon and that are with us today. Welcome to the plenary. Today in this initiative we have to talk about precariousness and job instability, of a temporality that has been dragging for twenty-five years the collective of workers who provide services as inspectors and surveyors for the Eustat. We are going to talk about precariousness in the public administration; we are going to talk about women who suffer especially; we are going to talk about the conditions under which they enter their retirement, and we are going to talk about the different treatment they receive from each other and about the enormous difficulties this government has with public employees. This whole debate is going on. This situation begins with the Basque Civil Service Act of 89, which made it possible in the different Basque public administrations to implement a model that would cover the public employment policies of each of them, and that in the area that we are dealing with today opened the way for the realization of employment for statistical work. For 25 years this service has been carried out for the Eustat for this staff: around 95 people have been chaining temporary contracts since then, with an average duration for each contract of three to six months, and signing several temporary contracts each year. At the beginning of the year, these workers do not know how many months they will work. You know the global, how many services are estimated to be called to serve the entire collective throughout the year, but you don't know what they'll be called for. Each service for which they are hired knows only, approximately, about a month in advance. The affected group is also composed mostly of women, with an average age of about fifty-five years; a group highly punished in the crisis for temporaryity, so if it is not regulated as soon as possible, it will be severely affected when they reach retirement. They do not have an indefinite contract, despite having been providing services for so long, and performing tasks always with the same object, although with different contract names. However, there has not yet been an RPT in relation to this group. As the situation did not change at this time, those affected filed lawsuits against the Basque Statistical Institute during the years 2009 to 2011. At present there are 110 favourable sentences affecting some 95 persons, as some of them have obtained sentences for both the job of inspectors and the job of surveyors. And where they are recognized the condition of indefinite discontinuous to all of them. These judgments require the creation of the employment relationship that they are developing. As I said, this RPT has not yet been implemented. However, last year, two months before the municipal elections, the Councillor for Public Administration and Justice, Mr Erkoreka, announced that both the RPT in Lanbide and the RPT in Eustat were being prepared. The RPT of Lanbide has already completed, as we all know, and approved. However, for the Eustat TPR only one meeting was held early last year, and after further total paralysis. In agreement with the general bureau, the Government undertook in its day to recover or revert to the public the outsourcing of contracts from the statistical operations of the Eustat; moreover, that agreement was placed at the sectoral table and in the collective labour agreements, and in the appeal agreement of the inspector staff, counting on the approval of the Eustat. At the only meeting held at the beginning of 2015, which was held for the preparation of the RPT, it was proposed by the Eustat to create 110 places: 31 full-time places (i.e., twelve months of the year), 40 places for six months, and 39 places for four months. This proposal was rejected flatly by the trade union representation and the workers concerned, since the agreement and regulatory agreement of 17 February 2011 on the appeal of the staff of the General Administration to provide services in the Eustat, where it was signed to include the statistical operations currently privatized in the reversibility study of outsourcings agreed in the agreement currently in force. The situation is complex, since it has been crawling for many years, twenty-five years. My group does not discuss it. But, I insist, in 2011 the regulatory agreement was put on the table so that at least the problems of the workers of Eustat could be addressed. So, I say, why are some workers offered solutions, and those of the Eustat are denied? That's what happens now, in 2016. What we raise is that, if there is the problem, if the Government has presented solutions for other cases, as happened in the case of Lanbide, why does it not arise for Eustat? Because one provides a direct care service to the citizenry and the other does not? Because the Eustatians are less and any protest is also considered to have less impact? Or because female employment has more weight in this case? There's a problem, we have to find a solution. We are going to cut it as soon as possible, and it is essential, in the view of my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, that the February 2011 agreement be implemented. The agreement provided for the conduct of an organizational study in which the necessary dimensioning had to be evaluated in order to assume with fixed personnel the performance of the ordinary activity of the Eustat. This organizational study has not been presented at any time to the trade union representation, nor to the workers concerned, five years later the agreement was signed in February 2011. The elaboration of the same is essential to be able to regularize the current situation of the affected group, since the recovery of the jobs currently outsourced could be hired on a full-time basis to the affected group. But that can only be achieved if you want to make that effort. It should be borne in mind that the collective, although a year ago, was, as I have pointed out earlier, about 95 people, at present it will be around 80 or 85 people, due to causes of death, retirements, etc. The collective has declined. A TPN is not currently being envisaged taking into account the actual work carried out over the years, which entails a consolidation of employment carried out by those affected. My group calls on the Councillor for Public Administration and Justice to start the process of resolving this situation seriously. So far, he hasn't. The entire legislature has been lost without having done anything so far, and that is what it announced before the election campaign of the municipal and outlaws that the RPT of Eustat was beginning. To undertake the organizational study, the elaboration of this organizational study, is important, and will clearly determine the existing workload once evaluated which operations are reversed, which are currently privatized, to hire the affected group on a full-time basis. It is essential to regularise the situation of the entire affected group, and that is why I support the proposal put forward by my parliamentary group, Basque Socialists, which is reflected in the compromise we have signed with the EH Bildu group, since all the steps are within it and should be taken now. All these steps are reflected in this initiative, and must be taken without further waiting, regardless of the adoption of the public employment bill, which is currently being processed within the Basque Parliament. And that is why I support our initiative, as I have pointed out, in which the Basque Parliament is urged to change the approaches currently presented to the trade union representation in the proposal for a TPP for the EUSTAT survey and inspector staff, and a new TPP is presented before 30 June 2016, in which all the posts that are collected for the staff concerned are full-time throughout the year. In this compromise proposal, what we have, of course, modified is the date contained in the initial proposal, which was initially 31 December 2015, which logically has to be changed when this initiative is presented today. Secondly, to carry out, prior to the preparation of the new RPT, an organizational study which determines the size necessary to assume for the fixed staff the performance of the ordinary activity of Eustat, which guarantees the full-time annual hiring of all the affected group, in order to know what would be the reversal of externalisations necessary for this. Thirdly, a technical committee should be set up to assess these existing workloads, as has been done in other job relationships. Fourthly, through a public offer of consolidation employment, access to the posts convoked. Finally, the Basque Government must comply with the agreements and agreements which support these claims, with a view to resolving definitively the precarious situation which has been faced by the workers concerned for 25 years. It can't be delayed any longer. It's justice. And that the organizational study, the creation of the technical commission, the elaboration of the RPT, be completed before the end of the legislature and before 30 June this year, in order to then be able to take out the public offer of employment. Today I hope that this initiative will be approved, and I thank the EH Bildu parliamentary group for its willingness to sign the transaction we are presenting here today from the very beginning. And also to the People's Party, which told me from the very beginning, from the beginning of the presentation of this initiative, that they were completely in agreement with it, and that they were therefore not going to submit amendments to the whole. That is what I think needs to be done, and I therefore request, if possible, the support of all the parliamentary groups in this House to get out. And, if not, with most of them. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u98	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u99	Thank you, ma'am. Good evening, all of you, and welcome to the representatives of the staff of Eupstate. Estate employees, both inspectors and employers, work with temporary contracts for years, usually for a specific work or service contract, without knowing how many months each year they will work. To find out how much money they'll have to do to make cabals and cabals. Some will work for six months, others for three months. They're in a pretor condition. Some of them need to borrow rents to support their incomes, and even those who work in public administration seem to be false. The workingmen, in the presence of this state, have charged them with accusations, and have won them: The Supper of the Chief Court admitted to the number of periodical workers of the court of the Arlo. That settles a part of the problem, but not all of it, of course. As for the charge of work, it is possible to end with the moment. It's possible that if it's all the work that's sterilizing today, it's gonna happen. That would be almost certain that all workers would have a lot of work to do. "Essal Autonomy to the collective contracts of the Esquirel Administration." the article expresses very clearly: "Administration will answer with proper means for the service necessary to accomplish its activity. Since the agreement has been introduced, the Administration is bound to do nothing but new activities, or now uncontradicted activities." And in 2011, between the residents of the Eupstate and the Administration, they signed what is said of "auerdo relagador delaptainent," where they were engaged in making an inquiry into the organization and retrieving all the operations which are externadized. The purpose of this deal was to have as much workload as possible for the workers, for more months to work. Unfortunately, this agreement is not fulfilled and continuing to externate. Only in 2014 and in 2015 the operation cost almost 324,000 Euro was sterilized outside. It is therefore easy to find a solution of the conflict: Take back the whole operation and stop privatizing it. That would be safe enough for all the workers for the rest of the year. And it must be remembered that most of the workers, as Gloria said, are nearly 55 years old, since most of them are women, and their contracts are temporary, will have very poor pensions in the calculation of their pensions, though they have worked for many years in the Administration, because they worked for a long time for years. Their prevention will remain even after retirement, if this state does not change. It must also be remembered, that although they worked at the Administration, they had no right, because they didn't have a square, to put an example, at the hours of work to be a Basque School, like so many workers in the Administration. They've only just managed to get a chance to go online. This situation must end once and for all, which should never have happened. But in the year past, they were introduced to the workers on the list of jobs, but only one third of the workers offered contracts for the whole year. Another third with six months' contracts and the other third for four months' contracts. This proposal made a proposal for the employment list, but held the preface. And this is unacceptable. For all that has been said, we must say that we agree with the other proposal, as we are now discussing, because it is a proclamation sent by the workers, and EH Collect joins with that just proclamation, which is required there. The list of jobs introduced to the staff of Eupstate, because a temporary contract continues to promote and the preparation will continue. It is required to make a study of the organization, in which it is determined that the necessary dimensions, the fixed workers, should take upon themselves the usual activity of Eupstate, and contract the collective injury with the whole year's labour. We also need to create a technical committee to evaluate the workloads as done with other jobs list. And, of course, it is also required that the former compacts and compacts should be concluded. But this proposal was presented by EH Collect to a correction, and we demanded the entrance to the appointed employments by public offer, and so we received it in the middle of the middle. It is also necessary to normalize the state of workers for ever and have as much right as the rest of the administration's employees. We signed a medium with PSE, where, as I have said, this is also received, and we hope that the rest of the teams may also be protected, and that they may come back to this situation at once. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Orbehabá, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good evening also to the representatives of Eupstate. Our team won't agree today with the medium agreed on by the two groups that have spoken before. When we found out about a year ago about the initiative, we're going to protect the full correction we presented. We all agree on the basis, because we think that we must find a solution to the business of our workmen in the Eupstate, but we believe that we must consider certain shades for this purpose. For this reason I shall try to explain our decision and our attitudes more clearly, and I would like to begin by remarking on the context or direction of the Eustat's situation. Before that, as the representatives of other groups have said, Eustat Euscal Statist is the organization. In 1986, it was a year since the New World's New Year's autonomous organization was formed. Our member statistics are concerned with officers, and his chief task is to collect statistics information over all the limits of society and economy, to examine and expand. This data is very important, in fact, because we have to note that statistics are very temporal, that the play for polls is very temporal, very station-stational, and it doesn't work the same way for a whole year, or from one year to another, because it changes from year to year. For several years then he has hired a hired hired hired laborer, and, on the other hand, he has worked with specialized corporations. That's what it's been to organize the regular system since the first few years. The law of the Public Euscalal function was also able to use temporary work contracts, and therefore this system did not interfere with any legal point of view. On the other hand, several of the staff of Eupstate held charges in front of this situation, and consequently 2009. From year to year the courts began to solve the claims, so that the eunuchs were not temporary contractors, but they resolved that the labors which they made were of structure, and that these contracts were fixed or permanent. But in the same way the courts decided that they were not only fixed works, but regular workers, which are called "fijos discontinuos." That is, the judgments recognized that they are indefinite contracts, yes, but discontinuous. In other words, as set out in the Workers' Statute, these are indefinite contracts which are agreed to carry out jobs that are fixed, stable, but discontinuous over time. Therefore, since 2009 these sentences were already known and the need to collect these places in an RPT and provide them on a statutory basis. However, since 2009, no decision had been taken on the establishment of an RPT, and staff appeals had been chosen to continue as they had been done so far. In fact, in February 2011 the previous government of Patxi López and the ELA unions and the Workers' Commissions signed an agreement to regulate the appeals of all those persons declared indefinite discontinuous in the Eustat. In that 2011 agreement, both the Basque Government and the signatory unions assumed discontinuity and merely adopted a system to enforce the sentences of the courts. Also in this document, in addition to regulating appeals, it was agreed to draw up an organizational study to determine the size necessary to assume with fixed staff the ordinary activity of Eustat. And thirdly, it was agreed to include outsourced activities in the reversibility study of externalizations agreed at the time, currently. We would, for instance, like the Representative EH Collect, to know where he says that this agreement could return all the work to externify, I do not know where you can determine where it is mentioned. So, as soon as I was in New York, the representatives of the unions and the representatives of the unions had a good view of the usual practice and the jobs of the inspectors and inspectors, the fun of him to accomplish that organizational work. In the same way, when the study had been completed, they agreed that the list of workers, the RPT, should be created, the necessary number of jobs for the usual operation, and also the guarantee of a permanent job. But the preceding law was concluded, and no examination was made. On the other hand, in this time of law, and in order to fill up the agreement, President Urkullu's 2015. at the beginning of the year he put the proposal on the table in front of the desk of the sector table. The organization of the Eustatians, the analysis of the function of its employments, the charges of the courts of law, or of the toils which may be carried through the years or years of the year, was considered in the same manner as the agreement of the appeals of 2011, which he made upon examination. And there, as you have already mentioned, the other was that 31 workers were going to be fully employed, 40k six months and 39 a month. It is true that this proposition ensures a greater legal security to the workers of Eupstate, increases the number of operations, and consequently improves the conditions of labour, and respects the succession of callings agreed on by the unions. But this proposal was not appreciated by the unions, and we learned from the whole of it that like the Social Party the other proposition was registered by the demand of the unions. By the same way, EH Collect made a similar plan in the correction of the census of a year ago. So, after knowing the original corrections and the intermediate now, we assert our intention to protect our corrections. What we propose is, following the outline of the 2011 agreement, that the Basque Government carry out a new organizational study in order to be able to analyse the needs of Eustat's staff; that this organizational study analyses the dimension necessary to assume with Eustat's staff the ordinary activity, which allows for the maximum reversal of externalisations; that the Basque Government and the trade unions, based on the study, negotiate and agree at the sectoral table the RPT to be created, and that the coverage of the posts approved in the RPT is carried out within the process of temporary employment consolidation as set out in the Basque Public Employment Act. That is, organizational study, agreement on RPT at the sectoral table, and coverage of posts in consolidation processes. Therefore, we also agree on the need for a new organizational study. In fact, we believe that this must be the first step to be able to make an objective analysis of the real staffing needs in Eustat. On the contrary, we believe that, without an objective analysis to support it, it is not best to demand that all jobs be full-time throughout the year. In this regard, we believe that a new organizational study should be carried out that also takes account of externalisations, but it is not rigorous, as reflected in the compromise amendment, to require that all persons with full-time work be recruited year-round, in the first point, and to continue to require that a study be carried out to determine the size necessary to carry out the ordinary activity with fixed staff. So we'll support our planning. First of all, let's have a piece of organization and get the deal together at the office table to get a list of jobs. Again, to see from the consequences of study whether contracts made with foreign companies may be made with the workmen of Eustate, in order to determine according to the consequences of it. And finally, to consider the law of the Public Empire in order to participate in the periods of temporary employment which are received in it by the temporary consolidation of the public. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u102	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to all, and good afternoon also to the Eustat workers present here. I believe that many of the issues to which I am going to refer have already been mentioned here. Indeed, the Basque Institute of Statistics was established 30 years ago, and this institute is entrusted with a series of statistical operations that have different phases. The first would be the programming and design of technical projects, secondly the collection of information, and thirdly the exploitation and dissemination of data. Well, that second phase, the collection of information, is carried out by workers, and this raises the first question, and it is why from the very beginning these operations are carried out by workers and not by officials, why from the very beginning a series of actions are carried out through temporary contracts, which were structural in nature and were carried out throughout the years. It is true, and we can recognize it, that there may be extraordinary needs, and that these extraordinary needs require the recruitment of temporary staff, but what is not reasonable is that from the beginning these tasks are entrusted to people whose contracts always vary between two and six months. Nor is it reasonable that this employment relationship did not exist from the outset. The truth is that statistical plans have been increasing, statistical operations have been increasing, and yet this was not accompanied by regularizing the employment situation of these workers. And that made it necessary – in our opinion without need – to resort to outsourced services, a game that has also increased year after year. More and more services have been subcontracted. As has been said here, the situation affects a hundred workers, almost a hundred now, mostly women, and the fact that they are temporary contracts influences, in addition to their salary, as has been said here, also their retirement. During the years 2008 and 2009 they had to go to the courts, as has been said here, to change their situation, and it is the courts that give them reason and those that consider them to be fixed discontinuous. It is true, Mr Orbegozo, that they consider them to be fixed because they were doing structural work, another issue that we have already talked about quite a bit here. And why do they consider them discontinuous? They are seen as discontinuous because some of the activities that should be carried out are carried out through external services, and that is why there is no workload for the whole year. They would not be discontinuous if such a burden had actually been shared throughout the year and they could have been burdened throughout the year. The Basque Court of Public Accounts also found that Eustat was not in compliance with the current rules on recruitment, and specifically pointed out that temporary recruitments to prepare surveys had been regarded by the courts as fixed discontinuous because of their repeated nature, and that this was why these favourable judgments had taken place. This does in the end this whole approach. What is not worth either, Mr Orbegozo, is that you now allude to what this had to be done in the government of Patxi López and it was not done, because, look, there is a very chaste Spanish saying, which is "One for the other, the house without barrier". So the question is not whether it has not been resolved so far; the question is whether it should be resolved now. And the truth is, if you want to, you can come up with a solution. But the solution, of course, is not to make the approach you made, which is 31 full-time positions, 40 positions at 180 days of recruitment per year, and 39 positions at 120 days of recruitment per year. And what is the justification that you give? That there's no workload all year round. What's the matter? If the actions that are currently outsourced are reversed, there is likely to be a year-round workload. And what would have to be done, the study that would have to be done? See how that work is distributed throughout the year. It is true that there may have been – I have spoken to you –, there may be specific moments when certain surveys have to be carried out over a very determined period of the year, but the collection of information is not always the case. The collection of information can be distributed throughout the year. The operations that are currently outsourced can be reversed and the work distributed throughout the year, and could thus be made year-round contracts for all these workers. Do you know what we're talking about? That there is will, that there is will, and that is what this Government has to put on the table. And you have to tell the workers, whether that will exists or not. Don't make excuses that there's no work, when, if they turn around, there would be work. Don't make excuses that it hasn't been done until now. It is about will, it is about seeing really..., of reversing, as I say, those operations that are outsourced; of making a study, indeed, of how these operations are distributed throughout the year, and that there is, above all, and in advance, that will that these contracts that are now temporary are going to become fixed, because the courts have said that they have to be fixed, but that they also become all of them, not just a third... , that all of them take up all the days of the year. And besides, with salaries that aren't... That is precisely why it compensates for the reversal of the proceedings. That's all it's about. The only thing. The rest is to puke the partridge.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u104	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answers, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u105	Let us see, Mr Orbegozo, I pointed out in my first speech that this has its origin already with the Public Service Act of the year 89, and in the year 89 and during those years you were in government. On the other hand, Mr Orbegozo, the Socialists, as I have also indicated in my first speech, have already left you with the members prepared with the signing of the convention and the regulatory agreement of 17 February 2011, calling on the staff of the General Administration who provided services in the Eustat, and that is where this agreement of reversibility of the externalisations carried out for statistical work in the Eustat was collected. It was signed with the trade union representation, after counting all the workers with the sentences in which they were recognized as indefinite discontinuities. We know that first it was also the workers of the National Institute of Statistics who, finding themselves in the same situations, also, prior to what happened here, made their complaints and were recognized, exactly as the workers here, as indefinite discontinuities. Being the same situation, here logically the demands were made and won, because it was the logical thing. And that happened during 2009 and 2011. But you already have that agreement since 2011, and have been doing absolutely nothing for three years. And they also announced in a drum and platter a year ago that they started the RPT of the workers of the Eustat, when there was only one meeting, they announce it, and nothing is produced again until today, until we reach this plenary, because that is the situation in which we are now. Isn't the situation simple? Well, we know that. But to want is power, as we have also expressed the different representatives of the different parties today in this rostrum. It's not easy, but you have to sit down and do that organizational study, see what size is needed to be able to reorganize all that work, so that these Eustat inspectors and surveyors can have a job all year round. And that it is also assessed within the technical committee, as has been done in other job relations. And with that, with all that study, organize the RPT in a correct way, which resolves the conflict that is now and the precarious situation that these workers have had for twenty-five years. And after having the RPT, the offer of public employment is taken out and this situation corrected. You have to study it, you just have to do that study. Get it done now. They're wasting a lot of time on the way. They have time to do it if they want, because, as I told you, wanting is power. You can do it and you have an obligation to do it, because it is you who are now in government. We ask you to make the effort. It is easy if they do, although there are more complicated cases than others, but, if they never do, the conflict will certainly never be resolved. I believe that the time has come to get to work and to settle it before 30 June this year. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u106	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Madam Zulaika, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u107	Thank you, ma'am, again. I shall be very short, I think ideas have been very clear on all sides, and do not repeat the same ideas again. I think, Mr. Orbez, Gloria Sánchez has cleared your doubts, but in case I'll try. I have already said that in a collective contract for the contract of the contractors of laborers, Administration shows itself in this way in order to make sure that in one aspect it is bound not to go out any activity which is not underrated now. And we have seen that in 2014 the answers which we consider are continued to eternalize the operations of Unhappiness, both in Norma and in 2015. And on the other hand, there is "acerdo regallor de gullamento," where it is placed in the third chapter, or in the article: "Incluir las operaciones statedísticas actualimate privatizadas en despido de reversidad de las externacenes pactado en acerdo actualmente vigente." Esas inclairlas el studio. As for EAJ's corrections, we must say that we are not opposed to the points in which they appear, but that there is very little for us, that he does not receive what is necessary or that which is necessary to end with this preparation; It's been a full-time job for the rest of the year. This commitment does not show up, and at least it was very important to the workers and to the EH Collect. That's why we think the media we signed is completely intact. Eta beaste ldetik bakarrik, nik ez ditut kontuak egin, bathe kontu matematiko batakin... For a subject also, surely, of optimization of public resources. The report by the Public Service on the proposed RPT stated that the proposed cost of the RPT was EUR 2,108,000, and yet, as I said in my first intervention, only in the last two years operations amounting to EUR 3 million have been outsourced. So, I don't know if really, making a boat account soon, because it's probably even more profitable for the Administration to hire full-time workers for the whole year, regardless of whether we see that this doesn't have to be the reason, but we on top of it see that surely, as far as the budget is concerned, it would certainly also be more profitable. And, well, to conclude, ask the other groups, which seem to be doing so, to support this proposal, this amendment. And that the Government, if it goes ahead, does not ignore this request and at once can solve the problem that these workers have been seeing for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u109	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Zulaika anderea, egia da, gauza bat da zuk interprettzen duzuna éta beste bat da akordio horrek zer esaten duen. Hau da, 21.1 artikuluak, zuk aipatutako artikulu horrek, esaten du: "Preferably take care of the services necessary to develop your activity with your own means". Egyptian hori of the age guk horrela exijitzen diogo Jaurlaritzari. Bigarrenak esaten du: "A commitment not to outsource any new existing activity that is not now subcontracted." Eustaten ez from gehiago externalizetu, zegoena bath. Gero esaten du: "To review all existing outsourcings to ensure that they comply with the regulations; to put in place mechanisms to prevent the illegal transfer of workers". Hori guztia berrikusi da age ez dago. Therefore, what I have said, you will read the third point of our proposition, and you will see that, in fact, the third point which is received in this treaty of callings, which you have mentioned, we have literally put in it. Gero, PSOEk esan duenaren inguruan..., the sentences are from 2009, and there it is said that the surveying staff and inspector are undefined workers discontinuous. He says they are fixed but discontinuous; nothing is said of a full day all year round. There's nothing in the sentences. The PSOE, as I said before, and the signing unions, in 2011, in the appeal agreement, what they assume is discontinuity, and they sign a system to execute sentences. Why was it not at that time that the days had to be one hundred percent? There is no mention in that appeal agreement at any time! Nothing is said at any time that the days have to be complete! On the other hand, temporary employment contracts have been used normally by all public administrations. And it is true that in 2011 or 2009 there is already a series of judgments and, well, there are other jurisprudence criteria, but, well, until 2009 they have been used in all public administrations normally. In fact, they continue to be used. The case of the rent campaign technicians is practically the same; that is, they are people who do a series of very specific jobs and on very specific dates. In this case, we are faced with a similar situation. And, with what the representative of the People's Party said about employment, which is not reasonable, because, it is true, it is a very respectable opinion, and we can share it even, but it is that until 2009 there was no one to say anything... I mean, no one had ever said that that wasn't legal or that it was against the law. Therefore, the fixed discontinuous, the interpretation you make may be very imaginative, but it is not to what the judgments refer. What about the solution? Well, yes, he's doing the objective study. What happens is that this objective study has to be prior to stating that all workers who are in this situation right now have to have full annual hours. Therefore, what we were asking precisely with this objective study is that an analysis be made to determine what the needs are and to seek the solution. And probably, as you said, it may be that the reversals of outsourcings give that percentage to which you referred, maybe yes, but maybe not. But, well, the important thing is that an analysis is done through that objective study. Just confirm it. According to what we have described in our correction, we want to solve this problem, and that is what we proposed to it, considering what we have now made up of the established agreement, let him do the work of the organization, and from the consequences of which let him start the negotiation at the sector table, and make a deal about the RPT, so that he can be able to do it in a consolidation procedure. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u110	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u111	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Orbegozo, not imaginative, it is not an imaginative solution. Discontinuous fixtures, why? Well, that didn't just happen in this administration! I remember perfectly well that the Bizkaia Provincial Council called the same employees, the same during all years, to make the income declarations, always to the same, and they were temporary, and they always did the same work, and they were always the same. What happened? That in the end a sentence also told them "No, they're fixed." Of course they were discontinuous, because it was three months! Why are they discontinuous here? Because, as a part of the workload is being carried out by certain companies, there is no work for the whole year. So, there's only work (that's why they're discontinuous)..., for some it would be for the whole year, for another six months, and for others it would be for less. That's the point. How would they stop being discontinuous? If externalization is reversed and this work is given to the workers. And you say the amendment. Look, the amendment is a "I don't want to stay out" – that's called politics – "I don't want to stay out and present this." That's it! Because with will... Because, of course, you on the second point... Well, the first is that of the sectoral table; and the second point is to analyze the possibility, within the framework of organizational study, of abolishing administrative contracts... The contracts that are held with the companies, I say they will not be in aeternum! They will have a term of validity! Once that deadline is over, one may propose to reverse and not continue to sign the contract, and such activities may be done by the staff of Eustat. It's that simple. What's this about? What's this about? To see if there is a will that this is not outsourced and done by the workers of the Eustat. And that, instead of six months or two months, it's all year round. That's the point. That's the point. And, if not, it means here clearly "no". Why? Because it is more cost-effective to outsource certain issues and others not. That I don't think it is, but in any case say it here. Not to say "study the possibility...", as if we had to do here, I don't know, castles in the air, when it isn't. I said that in my speech. I met with the workers, I fully understood their complaints, and therefore, as I told Mrs Sánchez, I was not going to table any amendments because I was going to vote on them as such. I believe that the amendment that was finally adopted is a similar amendment and even improves the original initiative, and we will continue to vote on it. And you, your amendment is a "I don't want to stay out, but I don't want to commit." I'm just telling you, it's not always worth making claims to the outside administrations here, because if this belonged to another administration, the Basque Nationalist Party would be the first on the banner. If there are claims made, in all the administrations, in which we are in opposition and in which we support. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u112	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, Euskal Socialists and EH Collectorate are going to vote for the media that signed it. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 46; contraries, 26; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u113	So it's been accepted to the middle of the line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal as the Spanish People made of the Houses of Official Protection in the New Benta of Donostea. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Llanos, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u114	Thank you again, Madam President. Good afternoon. Well, the truth is that this subject, like the previous one, is a subject that comes from afar and it is a topic that has not just been solved, although we ourselves recognize that there is a certain difficulty, but that with will, as I said before, we believe that it can be solved. And it becomes important because the contracts I'm going to talk about, these houses, were due to expire in November last year. As I said to you, this is a matter that comes from afar, a matter that starts in 1992, in which there were a number of public land belonging to different institutions, which are handed over to the Basque Government for the construction of official protective housing. After a contest of ideas, this gives rise to 510 homes, in which more than a thousand neighbors enter to live. These houses are built by a UTE formed by Metrovacesa and Vallehermoso, and the problems, as I have said repeatedly in this House, begin almost from the beginning. The problems and frustrations, because the advertising brochure of these homes established the option of purchase, and when the contract is signed from the very beginning it is seen that this option of purchase has disappeared. Already almost from that first moment the neighbors feel frustrated and deceived, but they are given very little time to sign, and in the end, if they do not sign, they run out of housing, and end up signing a rental contract that would have a duration of twelve years. The neighbours already complain that the Basque Government is disappearing, that it does not give them any solution or any help at the time, and that it has not helped them very much throughout the whole process. From that moment on, as I said, there are moments of frustration and uncertainty. Frustration, because this possibility of preferential acquisition, of purchase of housing, disappears, and above all uncertainty, because different governments have not just given a definitive solution to their housing. They feel no one, because when they are going to talk to the company, the company tells them that this is a matter for the Basque Government, and when they are going to talk to the Basque Government they tell them that this is a matter between the company and the neighbours, and that they do not have much to intervene. And, as the representative of the Association of Neighbors of Benta Berri, Mr. Saenz, said here, they are in a limbo of which they want to leave and of which they ask to leave. For this reason, the neighbours almost from the beginning form an association, which has been in contact with successive housing departments of the Basque Government, contacts, but which have not just given them a definitive solution. Moreover, contacts with the latter Government do not seem to be taking place. It is a very active association, although we were also told in the committee by its representative that in recent times people have been abandoning that association, because, in a certain way, they are afraid of the consequences that belonging to it can bring to them. And it's an association that has managed to get the neighbors of those homes together, to be cohesive and to have formed a neighborhood, and what they're fighting for is precisely why that neighborhood doesn't break down. It is that association really, it is the neighbors who have moved, the ones who have been achieving the various achievements, the small achievements that have been able to achieve. It's the neighbors who gave us the paperwork. I have at my disposal extensive documentation, also an extract of it was distributed by your representative when you appeared in this House in June. A file where all the vicissitudes you've been through are counted. Thanks to the mobilizations of the neighbors, as I said, it has been possible to achieve small achievements. Thus, at the end of 2010 the twelve years of lease were fulfilled, and the conditions at that time were that the contracts were to be renewed year by year until 2028, and what they did was move to get longer periods. And so, on the proposal of this own group, the Basque Government of that time, in 2010, after discussions and negotiations with the UTE, obtained the commitment of a system of extensions for five years, and that from then on the extensions would be for one year. We see, therefore, how the Basque Government, if it wishes, if it has the will, can speak with the company and can make progress. This five-year extension, as I said, was due to expire in November last year, and from here we are happy, because yesterday I was talking to the neighbor's representative, who seems to have achieved an extension for another five years. This group presented an inquiry to the then adviser, Mr Aburto, to see if the Basque Government was involved and after meeting with the neighbours, and also with the company, it could meet the demands of the former. In view of the lack of will of the then councillor, Mr Aburto, we ended up presenting a motion in this House, a motion that could not be finally approved, but everything that this group said in defence of that motion was reiterated by the representative of the neighbours of Benta Berri who came to this House. As I told Mr Aburto when I defended the question, this issue, at first, this group tried to keep it out of the political debate. That is why we met with the department to propose to it that it meet with both the company and the neighbours to give them a possible solution, because we believed and continued to believe that the Government can mediate between the company and the neighbours to resolve their demands; that it is, as I said, a matter of will, that the Government has the will to get involved. The amendment of the PNV, of the party that supports the Government, points out that the Basque Government meets at the request of the neighbours. We believe that the requests of the neighbours are on the table, that the very appearance of the representative of the association in this House is already a request. That same appearance, what he said there, is already a request for a meeting. As I was saying, this representative of Benta Berri, Mr Imanol Sáenz, attended the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Housing to ask the Basque Government to help him mediate before the company in the first place. He himself was already asking for that mediation. It was a request that the neighbors had transferred to him, and especially what they were trying to do was what they finally seemed to have achieved: that extension for another five years, but also to achieve a definitive solution, which are not always pending and always with Damocles' sword on it. They also wanted to resolve another number of issues that I raised in that motion and that he also reiterated in that committee: the possibility of swapping when circumstances so require. Because there are some who may have a greater need for housing, or to change to a smaller one, because the family has declined, but they cannot do so. And all they want is to change one home for another (of course, with the change in their case of rent), but they don't even ask... Because they raised the problem that maybe the company didn't want to because it would have to fix the houses again... They don't even ask for that. They're asking you to make that swap. They also raised the problem that they cannot give up that housing and apply for one in Etxebide, because, as they have to be a period of time, they could eventually stay on the street and without housing. In short, as I said, the representative of the neighbours came here to say what I also explained in this very plenary: that is a matter of will. I said it at first, and he also recognized it in that committee, which is not simple legally, which is true that it is not simple, but that if they go at the hands of the Basque Government, if this average between the two parties (the neighbours and the company), the solution, of course, is much less difficult. So, as I was saying, what is the first thing you have to do, and that is the first point that we ask for? Have him meet the neighbors. We do not know (maybe the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party tells us here today), we do not know, I say, that neither before that motion that I defended here, nor before the commission, nor until now, has there been a meeting with the neighbours so that they could make their proposals, so that they could ask what they asked us here: to mediate with the company to obtain a compromise that gives the most definitive solution possible to these contracts. Nor so that he can also talk about the exchanges and so that he can raise the problems of access to Etxebide. The text of the proposal that we are bringing here today is the same as the motion that could not be adopted, the one with which he agreed, as I say, the representative of the neighbours when he came to this House. And we have not had sex precisely because we bring this request by the hand of the neighbors, a request that the neighbors made a long time ago, that they posed it and for which they asked us to help in this commission to all the groups, where we were told not to abandon them and to be by hand. And that's why we introduced her. Because it is true that the three points of the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party can be very similar, but I tell you the same thing I said to Mr Orbegozo: it is an amendment to look good. Because at all points they put the same vest: "If the legislation allows..." (what legislation?, the current one?), "if the decree permits..." (can't the decree be amended, can't certain exceptions be made?), "if requested by neighbors...", "if...". In all it seems that the vest is included so that in the end it stays in water of drunkards. If you really agree to try to give the neighbours a solution, to try to meet their demands, to try to meet what the representative of Alokairu here asked for in that committee, the text is clear and meridian. The rest, as I'm telling you, will be an attempt not to stay out, but it won't be an attempt to solve what they've been demanding for so long. And I think those demands are perfectly manageable demands. Firstly, let the Basque Parliament urge the Basque Government, through the Vice-Council of Housing, to hold meetings with the tenants of the official protective housing in Benta Berri and with the UTE. To assess their demands and approaches and mediate among themselves in order to find a joint and definitive solution to the current situation of indefinacy and uncertainty. Secondly, to urge the Basque Government to find within these solutions the possibility that tenants can exchange between them when there is a change of needs or circumstances. Thirdly, the order regulating registration as an applicant in Etxebide should be amended so that tenants of the above-mentioned Benta Berri dwellings or other tenants of public housing in similar situations can access the register, provided that the socio-economic and income requirements laid down in the current legislation are met. As we say, it is a matter of will. I'll do it on my own. The Government, the Department of Housing, can do much in this matter, can get involved in providing the solution to these five hundred families. That's what we're asking. That is what the representative of the neighbours in this House asked, as I say. And that is why I ask you to support our initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u115	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing the corrections to the teams that have been assigned to them, Mrs. Ottagon, representative of the EH Collectors, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u116	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. It's not the first time we've discussed this matter, as we all know. This time we have a similar proposal from the Basque popular, as he has just stated, which the neighbors proposed, and which had been discussed in December 2014. Then we keep what we're saying. But now we add a point in the total correction we have set before us, asking you to join the tenants of the Houses of New Benta's Official Protection and the temporary company that handles them, by checking their demands and proposals, and working together for means of solution, because we understand that these residents of New Benta cannot continue in this state of uncertainty. It is clear here that things were not made very justly by beginnings, leaving public lands to private persons. Seeing how the procession was made, these are private matters, and it's a pity the institutions can't do anything we'd like to do. The institution must be made to guarantee all the citizens the right of housing, because they could do that. Unfortunately, we're not in this situation, we're so far away. We have been able to hear in the first discussion of the present day the situation in which there are so many houses, as a person, without so many houses. If the housing policy were made, it would be a real rental opportunity, and there wouldn't be so many people without homes or house, even if they couldn't get it. So if the engine decides to sell the houses one day, as we think it's the right to buy them first, and so it ought to be done, by linking them to the public park, to continue to offer them to the rent, by giving them the opportunity to live there with all the citizens who have the conditions to live in, giving them the preference to the most wanted ones. for we understand the points it receives, and it seems reasonable to us that which is required, but we think it is short. We need an integral solution, not only for this particular case, but for a proper domestic policy which answers the needs of society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u117	Thank you, Madam Mount. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Urkola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u118	Mrs. President, good evening. President, Chief, Congressman, good afternoon. Perhaps if, instead of going down here, I had said anything from the bench that had been treated at all the points in the meeting, and confirmed in all the instructions given me, the point would have been finished, because today we heard nothing new, nothing has been done, and I have not heard anything new to-day. And the only thing about this point seems to be the name of the neighborhood where these houses are located. However, once I'd come down, I'd like to give you some facts, because the data also is interpreted. 1994. In the year, a public contest is performed and a promotional promotion is made to build official security housing units. Condition: and at least for 12 years these housing must have been transferred to rent. If those housing are sold after 12 years, the people who are renting, the 25th of the law of Government. according to the article, they'd have the priority of buying, if I'm not mistaken, if it wasn't the privilege that this 7/1988 quarter of the official protection housing is given to him by that 7/1988 party on April 15th. So, that's the rules. Second date: 1998, 12 years and 2010, that's the year it ends with renting those housing units. At that moment, the new or propetic UTE Benta would be entitled to sale. As I said before, he stretched out for five years and until 2015. In 2015, the head physician of the Aburtos here mentioned said to them how to keep their rent, and I have the same information, I'm sure you'll be sure of. Even now these hired people have been offered a long time for five years. All this is said by the rules of gambling in this context, that we are speaking of a private relation. In other words, 500 and 1's private legal relations. I don't know if that means 500 solutions. So we're on the same point. And all we've done is, to make it easier, we said at that moment that the Official Protection Act was to be fulfilled, because in all this game the paper that's left to you is to keep the official housing law. This means that if new contracts are to be issued, new rents are checked by the conditions. And that's why we used to say that, as in front of any other town, when you ask M.M.M.M., without giving him any paper, to pick up information with one and the other, to find solutions, I don't know if they should have a solution or a lot of solutions, but let him work. When it's said at the second point to allow those parchments, we should say that those parchments are possible. These Permuts are possible, but since it would be a new contract, they would have to be filled with the housing conditions of official protection. Then these necklaces, those "two moons," they also have their importance. And at the third point, as to being able to describe at home, we should also say that they have that opportunity. If I am not mistaken, according to article 83 of the order of December 31, 2012, they would have been able to name it six months before the end of the contract. So what we also say is that he can inform these people that they have this opportunity too. Let us not change a regulation in a particular case, which is required without knowing what it is. At least I don't know what you're asking for. So we've gathered our three points into that. I don't know if it's "the twoques" or if it's the same thing that's called putting feet on the ground. Perhaps, as I said in the assembly before, there might be no solution of the fact that it is almost impossible to solve the problem, especially those rules which have been given to the company, and which, without being her will, may be said to be "both" to the Government to say what one does not want to say. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u119	Thank you, Mr. Urkola. Passing the teams that don't run, the Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u120	With your permission, President, from the seat. To say that the initiative that is brought we already subscribe to it. Mrs Llanos has presented the account of this matter in detail, and we have nothing more to say. In any case, tell Mrs Otamendi that we agree with her proposal, only that points 2 and 3 are contained in the Housing Act, which her group and ours have been moving forward in July. I want to say that the right to preferential acquisition for sheltered and unprotected housing in areas of accredited demand is contemplated, and that the future of the public park has to be for rent. We will therefore support the initiative of the proposing group after these explanations. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. (The thing is, if I did it from the seat, I couldn't see Mr. Urkola. ) The truth is that you are almost clearer than..., I don't know if Mr. Counsellor, who has already commented to me that he could not be here but I know that he will be attentive to this debate. Well, it was almost as clear, or it's just as clear as Mr. Abort. Where it was not so clear is in the committee, because what you are saying is that there is no solution. The Basque Government... It is true that in the committee he said that he could mediate, but today he does not say it so clearly, because what comes to us is that there are many neighbours, that it does not arise or that a comprehensive solution should not be proposed, and that it must be considered neighbour by neighbour. And always with law enforcement. I mean, I mean, you're not gonna move. As I was saying yesterday to the Madam Security Advisor, sometimes for you the laws are like the tables of Moses, that is, immutable, and then, instead, other times they are more lax. But it seems that in this case both the inscription in Etxebide, which, by the way, you say six months... Of course, but if it is six months before the termination of the contract it means that in six months it is out; if in six months it is out and it has not been given a solution since Etxebide... Wouldn't it be more reasonable to register earlier? With regard to swaps, I do not know whether or not it can be done. I think there's been one. One. It doesn't look that easy, does it? And what you're saying is that this is a private relationship, there's nothing left but law enforcement, and that neighbors take into account that the law has to be enforced. Come on, what it comes to say is that the Basque Government is completely and absolutely disinhibiting from this matter. Well, let the neighbors know that that's what you come to say here today. I do not know whether by the mouth of the Basque Government or by the mouth of the Basque Nationalist Party, but what you say is exclusively law enforcement, and that the Basque Government, if average, will be between individuals and the company in its case, but certainly not to give a definitive solution. Mr. Urkola, that's not people's government. That is, it seems now, for the Basque Nationalist Party, the sacrosanct value of the law above anything else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u123	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The representative of the EH Collector must not speak a word. Eubertist, Mr. Urkola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u124	Bai. Ez dakit ezer esatekorik badudan entzundakoak entzun eta gero. Skertuko nizukeen bakarra da... The only thing I would thank you for – I'm avoiding headphones – is that I don't put words I haven't said in my mouth. Because, if not, I would be saying that what you are asking, before all the citizens of Euskadi, is that the neighbours of Benta Berri are the only ones before whom the law does not have to be applied. And I would be saying that you are asking me that the gentlemen who are renting official protective housing, who have to register in Etxebide six months earlier, have to do so, but those of Benta Berri do not. Benta Berri's can be registered forever. So, let's not bring in speeches and words that can even turn against Benta Berri's own neighbors. Here the only thing I have wanted to say at least is that the joint solution that you propose... I don't know what the solution is. What you're saying is that you have to give them a joint solution, but you have to put it forward, because it's certainly not a joint solution. Because the five hundred families living in Benta Berri each have their own problems, and surely a joint solution can worsen their particular situation. With which, if you want to talk about something concrete, bring something concrete. And please do not put in my mouth words that I have not said, nor do with my words involving the Government positions that you have not raised, because that is called demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u125	Thank you, Mr. Urkola. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of another proposal like the Basque Potula group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 25; the contrary, 26; the whites, 0; Abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u126	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 21; contraries, 41; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u127	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full rights of the US patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the parties of 26; the contrary, 25; the whites, 0; Abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-11.u128	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and eleven.
