ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. Quiet, please. Sit each in your seats. We'll take the whole meeting with a couple of minutes' silence, in honour of St. Brouard. [[Silence]] Single point in theme list: It's called "The President of New York." According to the article 165.3 of the Rule, the first secretary will read the names of the candidates proposed by political groups representing the legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u1	Meet EH on behalf of the spokesman in Maddalen, Mrs. Okiñena's suit. On behalf of the spokesman of the Eubertarian team,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u2	In accordance with the article 165.3, the candidates will speak according to the number of the supporters, from the smallest to the greatest. The President Okiñena is speaking in order to explain the general forms of his government. At most, 90 minutes. Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u3	Mrs. President, the members of the table, the lords and ladies of the government who are in action, the members of the legislature, all of you who have come here as guests to-day, my audiences, good morning. I am a woman, like the majority of this legislature, more than half of humanity. But that's not the point. I'm a feminist. We're feminist. That's the main thing. Our government will be a feminist, the guarantee of a vital project, the permanence of life being placed in the centre of public politics in order to arrange a new pattern. A culture of another government, because there is no social cohesion, no justice, no democracy, if we cannot attain a new administration which is not founded on equality. Because there is no democracy in a country where half the people are dissected. Equality must be the basis of development, peace, and security, as the Union calls it. And our government will be a left-handed government, a government of liberty and equality, of all the citizens, without leaving any one behind it. The union of the people will be an axis, especially that of the weakest, and that of generation which we shall emphasise. It will be the government of hope and courage, XXI. the government of the century, and not of fear or despair. They tried to frighten us and make us desperate, but we won't give up. It will be a government that will work for peace and mutual life, a government that will continue to assist the present age to end, and who will proclaim truth, justice, and rebellion to all who have suffered violence. Besides, the Government will be favorable to the independence of this people. The Basque Country has assembled today-the only force which aims to begin with independence at once. And we will do all we can to bring this people into the path of independence. We want independence, and we need it, because it's the only chance we can live in a decent and just country, because we have to be free to live better. It will be an eucalycan government that unites us all because we're in Basque Country. It will be a government that will establish the rights of the Basque tongue, and which will give real opportunities to the people who have not yet come near the Basque Sea, because our language will open to them new universes, and they will discover that those new universes will be wonderful. We ought to be citizens of the community, citizens of euscal, healthy and healthy people, who live in a healthy and healthy environment, because justice and solidarity are the right to live happily, happy and free for that reason. This is the great goal of EH Bildu: a cultured and prepared society, a just and supportive country of free men and women, a healthy and healthy citizenship that takes care of its environment to bequeath it to future generations. In short, a people of solidarity and free people, because only by being free can we aspire to be happy and conquer the future we deserve. You know that during the election campaign, before citizens voted, we did put all the cards face to face, we offered the Basque Nationalist Party and Elkarrekin We can form a government around three major axes of action: social justice; peace and coexistence; and the democratic right to decide our future. Now it couldn't have been, but our offer is still standing. Our hand continues to stretch out because we think it's possible and the future will show that it's the only way out. Because a very large majority of citizens wants to have an agreement with three of those three ideas or main axes. If we only play the small one, we'll have a chance to win a few drops, but we'll have to play the big one if we want to win the tournament. It's a great honor and a great responsibility that the men and women of the Basque Country have entrusted me to the presidential president of Eusk0. And I wouldn't want to miss the opportunity right now to mention the Oral. The Spanish Government wrote a script without any shame, because the Spanish Justice had not allowed him to run for it. He is the victim of an injustice this important day among us. And I would like to remind you of all the citizens of Esscals, who have been the victim of injustice, before they go on. We can't forget them and we won't forget them. All except for one. Today's session has also been conducted in a special way. And when I say this, I want to remember, too, the women who are constantly attacked by the malxist violence, the men who have rejected this economic crisis and plunged them into unworthy conditions of life, the thousands of people who die daily in the Mediterranean, and who are at their end in shameful conditions of life, and who compose false discourses about them. Gogoan izan behar genuke gu ere egon gaile haien tokian. Polixene Trabudua ekintzaile jeltzaleak, "Articles of Amama" Liburuan said: "The exiles are not from anywhere, since when they are in their land they yearn for their exile, and when they are in this, they want to return to the first." So my first words today, both on one side and on the other, are directed to people who are having a bad time in this crisis of civilization. In any part of the world, or in the Basque Country, all the people who are oppressing human rights, the oppressed, the forsaken, the prisoners, all the people who can feel that no one is. A feminist government, so I told you. A government which can protect and guarantee the rights of the social and economic majority of our people, and which will render them superfluous. It is necessary that the public power should encourage the integrated policies which ought to be effected in the midst of the crowd, in order to build a cult, a critarian, and a fairer one. Government will be favorable to all women and men, which will be founded on real affinities. That's why it's got to be shared, really shared. It's true, right now, that we're women in our goal, but not alone. They're on the edge of all the dynamics that cause differences, and we have to look at them, all the workers of oppression. Ladies, girls, more prepared than ever, but we've been born to be guardians, and recently. And this, when we are full of labour in worthy employments, leaves the way of preparation and wisdom, in many cases at least so. That's why we have to place the surveillance policy in the center of public politics, in order to organize a people-based economic system. The formal equality in the political institution is still questionable, and we must conclude that personal equality is political, because this is the only way we reach higher associations. In the ideological cult, we must encourage the presence of women in all areas, by special strength in creation, by breaking images which are identified as objects in the media, by more steps in education as to the equality of rights and opportunitys between sexes, by breaking stereotypes, and in the expressions of culture we meet in the everyday, by preventing the continual violation of woman's rights rights. We're a secondary citizen, and we're not secondary citizens. It follows from this, that every day we suffer the most violent, most visible violence, and almost universal censure, but which every day sustains. We all work out the measure, and I think that we all agree in it is urgent. We'll go out, we'll go out the streets the day after tomorrow, but ladies and women, as the final investigations of the results, we'll still get scared. The data in general is to be truly feared. On a terrible examination made by the European Union in 2014, one of three women is exposed to physical violence or sexual violence in Europe. At work, at home, at every age, on every social level, and on 97% men are made. These women are our daughters, they are our sisters, they are our sisters, they are our friends, they are our women, they are our lovers. "First of all, the female of the world, the capitalists, the native women who smell of land, white, yellow, black, black, black, black, I've got them all, I love them all." Those are the words of the writer who has just won the Basque Literature. Let's all be an accomplice to change this horrible situation. Fear is over, the women have become powerful, for we must now acquire a change. For this reason, we see the necessity of making an integral law against the machista of violence, which we propose to do, in order to give a quick answer to the most urgent. But we do not wish to forget the everyday, as I have said, and to place the feminist policy in the presidency with all that it contains: education, health, media, culture and economic point of view. We need to promote an association between the results, the feminists, the administration, and the social unions, and the necessary direct measures, and the measures which this legislature has taken. The Government must be the guarantee against all kinds of inequality and discrimination, also to which thousands of people suffer every day for their sexual orientation: homophobia, lesbians and transphobia. We will present both bills to guarantee freedom and sexual diversity in an integral way, in addition to recognizing gender self-determination. This determined attitude towards equality will be of great help to advance also as a society, to make a developed country, a peaceful country, a country that believes in social justice. By eliminating inequalities, we can continue to take steps to ensure the necessary intergenerational solidarity and to understand that the problems of others are also our problems. For, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the situation is not easy, it is not in the Basque Country or in the world. Globalization, right Liberals, and neoliberai, which sought to sell as a remedy for humanity, has entered the crisis before its end is attained. He wanted to be a new way of managing capitalism and left millions of men in misery, not only in the peripherys of the system, but in Africa, Asia, or South America. Globation has damaged the domestic houses, the workers who live in the centre of the system, who persuaded them that they were middle classes, all over the world and here in the Basque Country, bending their conditions from top to bottom, and above all increasing their differences, making richer and poorer. And today the young people, even though they're the most prepared generation ever, are working for the poor sodal. It's impossible or very difficult to get a place. If they decide to have children, they can even get back to 40 years. They have a dark future for when they grow old, and they do not know that they will be able to collect a pension, and, seeing their wages, they can even see that this pension will be very limited. And in general all this has stolen their hopes, in general all this has stolen from us hope, the right to be happy. And people are angry and angry, and seeing that the economic-finites do not endure such a thing, that the differences grow larger and larger. And this anger is boiling and beginning to overflow. If we look into the world, we can see it everywhere, and we will need to consider the causes, understand and try to solve them; but we can see everywhere that the situation has begun to swell and rise. Here in Europe we have elections in a few days in Austria, where the far right can reach the presidency of the Republic. In Hungary already governs the – let's call it that – authoritarian right. In Spain... then we'll talk about Spain later. Italy votes next week in a referendum, which will show people's tiredness. And Europe, some cry, Europe! Europe. But what Europe? The Europe that distills xenophobic dyes, advancing the vote to the Brexit and adding the vote to the Brexit? The one who has condemned generations of men and women in Greece to misery? The one that throws people out of their homes, while injecting billions and millions of euros into their banks, like in Spain? The one that deals with Turkey and closes her eyes to human rights violations? Europe with banks and electrics? Europe, actually, we like it too, but we're beginning to see signs in Europe too. Next year in France, Marine Le Pen is supposed to be at the Elisha, or Fillon, and I'd say, "What a pair of caracolas and slugs." Anger swells and we're watching the results. The absolute priority for Euskal Herria Bildu is that Basque citizens live better, live as they deserve, and that among all of us we are able to transform this society socially and economically, so that we reach greater levels of well-being. We are faced with great challenges and also with great difficulties, among other things because we do not have in our hands all the instruments necessary to move forward. We cannot legislate freely, we cannot make sovereign decisions, and the push of this people is again and again colliding with measures that are imposed on us, which we have not decided here. And we believe that this situation must be brought to an end. To begin with, however, it is necessary that we do not go down the slope, we must turn round, and there must be so many measures which have come to us from Spain, and which have here been taken. That's why we're proclaiming a country without a murmur. We're trying to guarantee the right of worthy and secure office, 52 people have died in the Basque Country this year. Pentium, a society that will guarantee social welfare, we wish to secure it by providing to all the citizens a decent life, and avoiding society with a gradual increase. And it's going to be a job for the Basque Country to be one of the prioritys and obsessions of the United States. To a person who wants to work and cannot work, the same dignity is denied, and that cannot be accepted. As it is not possible to do the work, but to collect poor wages and live under the level of poverty thousands of people who are working. In this sense, we think it inevitable that the stage in which the law of the Spanish Land Reformation proposes should be removed. We must face it, we must make our own laws to this people. Administrations can do much for employment, of course much more than they do. In Europe, every hundred people who work, twenty-one do so in the public sector. If we were to reach that level, we could create 40,000 new jobs in the public administration; 40,000 new jobs between firefighters, nurses, forest guards, engineers, electricians, administrative... For example, we could recover the 3,000 jobs lost in Osakidetza during the years of the crisis. And besides placing people working in public areas on European level, we can see that for the next four years we can create 20,000 jobs in private, bringing the rate of unemployment around 7% for 20 years. In order to do this, the entire and integrated manufacturing plan must be started, founded on investigation, and aided by politics must be modified from top to bottom. Indeed, recruitment in the private sector should be encouraged, but with criteria of social effectiveness. The Administration can help private companies with money, but it must demand guarantees that such aid will be reversed in society. But I say that it is not just having a job; it is also that they pay you decently for it: 1,200 euros, 1,200 euros per month should be the minimum wage. 1200 euros a month. This is our proposal, a proposition which ought to be least in public, and even the most uncontradicted. 1,200 euros, to ensure a decent life for the workers. And doing 35 hours a week, we'd win something. The action of private armies will be more difficult, but the administration has some levers in its hands which can produce the results of it, and the least of them is not the contraction of the public. Because it is possible to act upon me by public opposition, because it is possible to influence the equality of men, because it is possible to promote employment, and to encourage it, as well as the use of euphora, or even to direct the attention of environment. We must especially protect our youth, and older people as well, but we certainly cannot have pensioners who cover EUR 400 a month. And we have about 25,000. And you know perfectly well what the light company charges a month, or what the gas company charges, or what the phone charges, or what you have to pay in the contribution or the scale fee. And it turns out that pensioners have to get dressed, they even have to eat, and they often want to give their grandchildren a five-euro pay. Summon, and tell them then that 400 euros is not bad either, and that less is nothing. That must end, and it must end now: EUR 1,080 as a minimum pension, which is 60% of our country's average salary, that is Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal; a feasible proposal that would affect about 160,000 of our compatriots, who are those who do not come to that amount right now. We see in 1 080 euros that pensioners can live a decent life. To reach that road, and beyond that. That's why we want to make an agreement to ensure decent pensions to be able to do it on the table. On the other hand, we will take steps to create a system of our own Euscalis, on the other hand, and attempt to enable us to continue our work until we have all been in our power to take possession of our own social security. The differences are getting more and more distinct here in the Basque Country. He's resurviving economics, but he's not coming back the same way for everyone. As I have said, there are people who can live in a decent way, but there are people who live in misery, there are people who have neither work nor money, and there are people who can't light the stove. That's the reality of our town. And in front of this we could do two things: try to ignore it or fix the situation. We have a society that is about to go at two speeds, with people living more or less dignifiedly, and people living with great difficulties. And it's very easy, too easy to get into trouble overnight because of some unforeseen situation, or even to run out of absolutely nothing. Talking about social emergency is not an alarmist expression; it is a reality. We can close our eyes and think that elsewhere they are worse, or we can take action. Measures for Euskal Herria Bildu to go through reforming the Income Guarantee Act, so that it can reach all those in need, leaving behind the cuts of the administration of the Socialist Party that then maintained the administration of the Basque Nationalist Party. The word RGI must necessarily speak of Professions. It must be a necessary public instrument to promote employment, but it has wandered and wandered from beginning to first, and has not been effective, and you have admitted that even in this Parliament before now. He has spent the largest of his work and the orientation and range of labour which he needs priority, in order to ensure his incomes, has not been made by form. Moreover, the model for jobs system that we want is not defined. The work, then, is better and indispensable to do so as soon as possible. And this income must be completed with the creation of the basic income for childhood and adolescence. We cannot pretend to have young entrepreneurs and preparers if they have been living in misery during childhood. As it will be difficult to count on the talent and know-how of thousands and thousands of people who are forced to leave their jobs to care for someone in their home, thousands of caregivers, who are also mostly caregivers. Caretakers of children, elderly people, people with problems; caregivers for whom the greatest reward is a smile or a hug from the person they care for. That work, perhaps the most worthy of work, and of course the most selfless, deserves and needs greater recognition than it has so far. Sooner or later, all of us will need someone to take care of us, and our administration must not, of course, forget these people. All this requires deep changes: changes in the administration, change in the budget, but above all, it requires cultural changes, cultural changes. The goal is to leave behind the social state of emigence and transition to a new model of social protection, which will not forget the change of culture based on conversation and association, and the solidarity of generations. Solidarity, that's the value of the left. We don't like charity in public politics. Solidarity is something else. Each gives the people what they can, whether in money or in his talent, or in knowledge or learning, share together, knowing that one day he himself will receive the protection and satisfaction of the people. The neighbourhood is our old institution, and let's not lose sight of it. The neighborhood and solidarity will be the main way we do it. Especially to the people of age, to women, to young, to old people... It is impossible to govern, without listening to the necessity of the public, or paying any attention to them. And in this respect, socially, it is absolutely necessary that we should arrive at honest interviews and negotiations for everyone's sake. This conversation will be voluntary to develop the Basque frame for working purposes. It is necessary that the unions and corporations should speak to each other, and it is necessary that the Administration should speak to all of them and find some settlements. The least representative of the majority is not forgotten, but the majority is particularly attentive to those who represent it. In that sense, the Basque Country is absolutely incomprehensible to the United States, and will try to revolutionize this situation with the protection of the Unification of the peace of the peace and the agreement obtained by the Confebasss and UGT and Comissions when there is no restricted agreement. It's a good instrument to break unionism, and it's a very long-term struggle with the workers. It can't be that you pay different wages for the same job. It can't be an attitude applauded by the administration, and we have to start with a serious social conversation, which, apart from cortoplatisms, will be workers with companies, which will bring scientific, technical, and cultural innovations of this country. It will, indeed, be the principal guarantee of the future of this people, for it will be the study of eupscal high education. An investigation will make us live healthy, and we will succeed in obtaining an inquiry to leave the Basque People worthy of our descendants. This is a great cultural change, but it is necessary. The most advanced people in the world have understood it well, but here we have not understood it so well. In the last four years the investments of development and development have been continually down. 2,6%; 13%; 14th of 1,92, 15th, is in Exodustic if I am not mistaken, 1884. The same way Spain has done. And in the meantime we must mention that things have changed and risen in the European Union: it has grown up there, and if you look at the most advanced countries, it is more than 4% in many places. It is therefore urgent that as a society we assume that it is essential to investigate and innovate, and that resources must be devoted to this. It is not possible that, over the last four years, year after year, we have seen the money devoted to research and development reduced. We must live up to Europe: we are playing with the future. That's why, in four years, at least 3% of the money that leads to it. We're proposing a deal to do that here today. The new industrial policy, which EH Collect considers as necessary, will therefore have this foundation: the inquiry, the basis, the inquiry. More and more production, better and better products, better and better services every day. We aspire to be leaders in the industrial sector in Europe, and that is why our industrial policy must first change its mindset, then come up with ambitious challenges for the future. And industrial policy, of course, will be the one that defines our country in the next twenty or thirty years. If we look back, we will see that in this too we look more and more like Spain, and that in the years of crisis we have been looking more and more like each other. Our industrial sector needs a great turnaround, and also a push to open up to new productive and business models. Our factories cannot simply make parts designed abroad at a good price, at the cost of lowering the wages of our workers. Nor do we want to be a country of services that do not bring value. That is why, as I said before, it is essential to invest in research and innovation, but we also propose to set up a EUR 800 million fund to develop an industrial regeneration shock plan. We won't be able to leave the Basque Country on the world map, and that's the way to work that's done so much fruit in the Basque Country. Therefore we think it necessary to prepare the law of the Copoperatives. And we can't forget the culture of working with so much fruit that we can't forget: We can't abandon the model of creating and planning our own business, and there's been a lot of this in the Basque Country. In a word, the Esscal economy must be based on its industrial sector, one of the strongest bases, and there must be a variety of various and new methods of service and organization around the industrial sector. In every respect, things can be done better, things can be done more valuable, even in the first sector that has been forgotten for years: I was a cattleman, farming. Our peasants, fishermen can't have patterns until now. Some have taken great strides, that is true, but others are in danger of disappearing. And agriculture, ranching and fishing, are manufactures too, as culture is an industry. These are our goals, and if we want to see the Basque Country as leader, we need the same land for us and those who follow us, the land, the land, the water, and the wind. Perhaps, except for those who represent Donald Trump and neoliberalism, no one in the world has any doubt that climateal change already occurs, and that we are persons in a great degree responsible for this change; rather, that our social model is responsible for it. The planet is warming up and there's going to be some serious change. It will lead deep changes upon economics, bring them upon health, and bring deep changes upon our life. And temptation is often to think that we're small and that we'll do one thing or the other won't be of special importance. How many COs 2 Does the Basque Country, compared to America, Russia or China? It can't be an excuse. We must also be world leaders in this Euskal Country area. And this is necessarily the source of strong steps to change our neurotic frame from top to bottom, to start a transition. It's impossible to keep up with a frame that directly works against clean and retal energy. And we're in that frame again and again, in the frame that Spain imposes on us. The climate crisis is a systems crisis. I have already said that Globation has failed, spreading misery and increasing the difference between rich and poor, and climateal crisis is the result of this. In this case, the citizens of the Basques must restore the means of deciding the policy of energy, and begin the means of deciding the true Hellenic democracy. We're in the hands of the multinationals, and they'd like to be more and more, and that's why CETA and that's why TTIP are famous. But it'll be all right if you give them up too. Today, thanks to research, technological research, our country does not have to be in the hands of the multinational people, and it may be a great chance in this area that the Basque Country should be a very important people. In any case, we propose a law of climate change, because we must begin to leave fossil fuels behind by taking it as a tool for the sake of retended energy. And to make these energy cheaper, we see that it is necessary to create a public institution, as we see it necessary to make EVE, the organization of energy, the organization of the retractable energy. If you put panels on the roof of your house, you can't be punished. The people need a right to consume what they produce and to consume. It can't be endured, for instance, as we see the windmills standing there, while thermal Plants defile our air, smoking a gas that is naturally expensive by the smoking coal or a combination cycle, and all by pouring carbon dioxidism, so as not to mention the oxine nitrogen. We'll ask ourselves why the life despair of those who live in Pasadena Bay is smaller than the men and women who live in the South of Aba. Ask for neuromology services. We're not going to start digging earth with hydraulic techniques. This parliament admits the law against failure, even though Spain doesn't like it. But we'll have to start again, that's what we're going to do. For instance, they say it's a high-speed train around here. For ten years they've been working and there's no time to end, and thousands of millions of dollars are already buried, and when it's over, we don't even know that this train will never come to Hendaia before twenty years ago. Who knows then that we will use other ways of transport or needing trains? I think we must establish a modernity and take time to see how men and women here need it, without a practicalism, because I often feel that there are certain doses of obstinacy when these projects are started. You know, porcelain, coal, past models. Naomi Klein, she's become very fashionable now in Spain, but what I've been telling you is a long time ago, has said: "We have gone too far, and if we go on, we will fall into the pit if not very little. It's time to jump over the cliff." And that's our proposition. to leap over the abyss, to transition to a new pattern, to mark the transition gradually, but constantly. I've mentioned the research over and over, since I see that we're doing the right thing for the Basque People and the Basque People to live as we deserve. But underneath the investigation, there's education, without an excellent education, we won't get anything to lead. In the Basque Country, more than 57% of young men have a higher degree of form, a college appetite, or a high-level education. This data of Araba, Bizia, and Gipuzian is still better, 61%. I think London is alone all over Europe. We have the most trained youth we have ever had, the clothes of men and women, and it is really to be rejoiced. But they don't really have a chance to make their own life project, because among the young Euscals' unemployment rates, around 35 to 40%. They want to work and they can't. It is almost ten times more than in Germany on certain plains. We are in danger of losing a whole generation, and if the measures are not now taken, it will be useless to claim that it is the individual or collective right of all popular education. This is education: What we understand from birth as an integral process of life, and as a whole, we understand the Basque People in the Union. That's why we'll have to deal with the collective development of citizens and the development of the Basque People in the future. And this demands the adaptation of our education to new times, and the renewal of our education, beginning with the student's wants, for the sake of the professors and of the whole company of Basques. But this is not possible, in our opinion, with the pretty things which are being established to us to-day; for, on the one hand, it is not possible to resist the attacks which we are constantly suffering from Madrid, unless it be the new Hecitrator, or the system of education which may have a translation of it, or of choice. So for all that, we must necessarily place education at the center of the political agenda at this time of law. And that requires everyone to act in a stately way and to be responsible, and to collect the fundamental, firm, and extensive agreement that will be answered in the long term, and efficiency of the everyday. An agreement of basic education written in capital letters. Each of you will ask us to stop looking at his navel and to get a popular deal, to play it with difficulty, effort, and elasticity, but above all to be responsible. As Nelson Mandela said: "The most powerful tool for the transformation of a society." The Basque Country is ready for that, and we won't let it pass. And even in college, the law we have will be necessary to renew. To offer a better financial fixed position to public college, to push the university together, and again to push the investigation, the basic investigation, the bismic investigation, and even the applied one. Without basic research, no basic research can be applied, no further progress or gain in the future. Sometimes it will seem sterile, and in history it has often been sterile, and they have found them in basura-bags, some of the obsceneness which they found afterwards to be penicillin. There are times when the investment has been rendered sterile, but there is no fruitless inquiry, because the branch, which does not produce immediate fruit, grows early or later, too. Research and development also in the cultural area. Culture is something we've never been able to define very well, but without which we wouldn't even be here today. And it must be developed in a climate of genuine freedom, and it must be the subject of special protection. The cultural industry, the creators, the collectives, the small groups that are in our country and that come together to create a choir, to represent a play, that go out to the square to transmit our dances, writers, writers, singers (we will see many and many next week at the Fair of Durango), actresses..., all these people are making country, and all these people deserve our attention. As all the people who have worked in favour of the Basque for many years deserve. Our Government will not only provide an opportunity for everyone to learn Basque free of charge, it will encourage this to happen by encouraging companies to develop plans for learning and using Basque. The Basques, they have a right to live without discrimination, and we have not succeeded in this part of the Basque Country. Education has not succeeded in the young man's complete euscalization and the Euscharian Act during the course of many years, there is no excuse for the 100th of the young men not being Basque. And it has not been succeeded in not applying to the young men's contact with the Administration, we will not say in their private services. but knowing that the perfect consent is perhaps impossible, we must take strong steps after a new law of the eucalyptus. Main Targets: that the end of discrimination and the greatest part of the euphoria and eroscalal euphoria may be extended, and that this magnificent opportunity, which has not yet reached the world of the euca, will open to him that wonderful opportunity of learning to euca, that opportunity which will be opened to him by beautiful new worlds. What would have been the instrument of this Euskalization, the important instrument, I'm talking about the radio show on the eau-Eussalka, is standing there, and you'll understand, and I swear to you, understand me, what a pain this is to say to me. And in this case, too, the time has come for us to reach the subject seriously, and with what public communication we would have, to make a living, to make a living, to examine all the facts, all the alternative patterns, to put them on the table. It seems to me that the model has failed, especially once again, because it has been partly a model copied from the Spanish radio show by the Euscal radio show, except perhaps at the beginning. There are other models in the world, other ways to pay for media, and of course there are other ways of doing it. Euskara must be the first to serve the Basque People. The priority must be the quality of information. And we must learn here that information's quality is not measured in hand by the timer, so that we can see how many minutes each party has gone off screen. It seems to me that we have need to be deéverated in that, too. And so, considering all this, not just EITB, but also EIB, but because we must reflect deeply on EITB and all the communal space of EIB and euscal, and we must collect the Basque People. We want a healthy society, starting with young people. and although they are often connected with age, yet it is possible, as you know, to prevent many of these evils from children: fatity, diabetesari, charidious illnesses. Hence we wish to set up an integral plan in the health world, in order to take care of it by the health and educational department, in which the end will be to cut down the rate of fatity between ten years below 20 years. The healthy young men today will be healthy and healthy to-morrow. In this sense, one of our goals is to guarantee the subjective right of all the citizens for a healthy nourishment, and this is a direct relation to the feeling of nourishment; produced in it, consumed in it, proper food, more physical exercise, and more healthy people. And for this purpose, it is necessary that the primary health condition should be specially guarded, and that the pediatrical services should be strengthened. So every Pediatra shouldn't have more than 700 children in his cup. And generally the primary attention must be strengthened. It is always said that these are the doors of the health system, but in the past ten years it has not been augmented by personal attention and not by means of any kind. In a society which wants to be an axis of solidarity, the health system must be a direct indication of it, and therefore must guarantee universality and equality. And, of course, it is not possible to fall into the temptation of privatization. Health has been taken all over the world as business, and the interests and fortunes of pharmaceuticals and health companies are enormous, and we know that, but we must be very careful about it. Sublation, Orlection, are always concepts which must be carefully used, but still more in the health world, because the welfare and life of the people are in question. The list of preparations, the wallet service, will have to be repacked to see if the other person can get the rest of his palate in. And it is especially necessary to reform it, and from the opinions of the professionals, on the basis of scientific evidence, of course, if therapeutic measures which are offered must be maintained or modified in this respect. All the plans and measures mentioned during this discourse are possible. All measurements have been carefully examined, not only on political level, but on technical level, and everyone has proved economicability. But if there is money, it is not properly divided. As I said before, the priorities are not what our people need. But, in any case, it will be necessary to pay taxes. but not all of us, either by some or by others. Our prosecuting attorney is far from the average of Europe, far from the most advanced countries. That's why we propose agreements for progressive tax policy. Half the wealth which originates in Denmark is added by the State, more or less than three in ours. That doesn't mean we all have to pay any more, but we have to make deep changes and reforms, so that people who really have money will pay for it, because they don't pay much. There are those who are committed to making us believe that we are leaving the money for the fraud in social benefits. Besides not being true – and to the data I refer myself – what is behind is that runrun that has a clear intention. And the clear intention is not to focus on the right place. If the little one disappoints the fraud is small, but when the big one does, then the fraud is greater. We believe that the independent tax fraud observatory needs to be set up, to assess how much money we lose, what is done in other countries, and to fight against fraud, to propose measures. And we will have to monitor above all the type of corporate tax, especially those that pay – or those that do not pay – large companies as well. In addition, VAT and other taxes agreed. I really find it very difficult to understand how it would be possible for workers to charge nominators to acknowledge that their income is much larger than the most professional and professional companies. We've been listening to that for years now, because the unions in this country have been accusing it and I think the administration is ignoring it. In this Arlo, as in all others, we must use our imaginations, because we must make a way full of obstacles and obstacles. And using the imagination, why not collect, for instance, the electric companies, who cut off light during the hard winter, those companies whose president wins forty thousand euros every day, because of the electromagnetic infection that their cables produce? To give you an example. This parliament, however, has but little jurisdiction in the prosecution. These jurisdictions are in the principal assemblies, and, I dare say, above all in the Courts of Spain, and shall be directed to the councils of the Supreme Council. But in this line, let us say that the Basque People want a strong people, a cohesion of people, thought of as a people, not as a product of land. Perhaps in this very law it is necessary to examine the law of the Himistric Lands, and to consider the course which may already be taken: We wish a people of thought as a people, which has been conceived as a State, which will not fall into provincialism, and which will very well account for the provinces. And even in financial matters there is very little jurisdiction, and also the great Madrid control. Europe says that the sum of deficit is necessary, but that's not true, in our case it's not true, we are told by Spain. And we don't even have the reputation policy from Frankf Year or Brussels, but Madrid. We don't have the effective tools or levers, and it's necessary for a people to move forward. In this case, then, it is necessary that we should make a treaty, what form and what business we should give to the Basque Financial Organization, because it is not reasonable that the Minister of the Ecofinen De Guindos should be in our name. We have an enormous challenge for the next four years, ladies and gentlemen, as far as life is concerned. History has shown us that here and in the world the ill-closed wounds are corrupted and reopened. It's been five years since he left all his weapons once, five years. Thousands of people who have voted these elections were only 13 years old and many things have changed in the Basque Country these five years. We have shown by our fellow escals, one of aces, and another, a great deal of light, that we are able to do a great deal of things together. Many things have changed, but none; The position of the Spanish government and, in some measure, of France has not changed. Just as they have not changed their efforts to obstruct the existence of a community of euscals. The Basque Country is not afraid of that debate. As soon as the Basque Country was born, it has been clear that only peaceful and democratic means of making politics are acceptable, and, although it has been accused of the contrary, you will find the Basque People in the United States, and the majority of the Basques know it well, and some of the politicians who succeeded in paying great compensations. In this, as in all others, we must proceed. And to advance, as has been said before, it is necessary to close the wounds as required, first and then to confess the regeneration due to all the victims, and give them as much attention as possible. A great road has been made in this sense, but not entirely, and therefore it will not be useless to have it always dealt with. But victims are to be respected above all things, respect of courtesy, respect of pain and suffering which they have suffered. And it is not necessary to separate what they have suffered, it is not the pain which they have been forced to separate. It's not the same thing to do a pint or a trifulka or kill a person. They can't match because it's not the same thing. And they are also owed an exquisite respect for all human rights, those of all people. And let me tell you that, in this sense, respect for freedom of expression is no less. In order to close his wounds, he'll have to act. He'll have to deal with a lot of things. And in the first place, we must begin with the defence of the soul, and we must facilitate this way with the greatest harmony. But I repeat, the Spanish Government is the only one who has not moved in this matter for five years. The Basque People are ready to collect in this parliament in this way of agreement, and it seems to us an important point for this purpose to be the plan of social forum. And to close the wounds, it will be voluntary demilitary of the Basque Country. The Spanish police, the Civil Guard, the Army, have to run a plan to return to Spain. This Parliament has said before. For one thing, to limit the laws already established, and to provide for them, because they do not need so many agents to guard ports and airports. But on the other hand, the situation has changed in this country. And if we close the wounds, the situation of the prisoners will be solved. And even in this matter, the only one who has not moved is the Spanish Government. Sick prisoners should be home at once today. And no one should travel thousands of miles when he visits a family. Dispertion is not in the Spanish Code, but it is the penalty inflicted by hundreds of citizens every week, and their only crime is to love them. Last accident last week. The Spanish Government has the key to prisons. He's the only one in the world who hasn't given an answer to the will to disarm an armed organization. Today at Colombia, again, they will sign the peace agreement a second time. It's stubborn, but we'll have to figure out how to get the key. It's not easy, but there's some paths going on, and we're going to take a new measure over those roads. In this sense, we propose that this parliamentism and Parliament of Navarre, and this Parliament and this government are willing to provide a full support for the international relations in order to make their work normal, without passing through the National Court of Spain, and in order to set up precise steps and form them into society: of the state of prisoners, of men in exile, of transitional justice, of the burning of victims, of demigration, of memory, of all the consequences which the violence of the last century has left in the Basque Country. We even propose to organize a committee of truth, to start taking steps, because there are many facts that have not been studied and solved. And when we ask for truth, justice, and attention to all victims, we ask for truth, justice, and attention. We know also that the present has taught us so, that not one peace shall satisfy all sides. We're going to have to establish a future life under the respect of various relattos. They are trying to impose on us the logic of victors and losers, but history teaches us that every day it is a very stubborn and a little disappointed, and the citizens of this old and learned country have spoken very clearly to us in the Socimeter of the week, and very clearly tell us what they want and what they don't want. And they don't want that logic. Basque citizenship, Euskal Herria, deserves to leave behind the 20th century and face the future with hope. For many things, but especially because we owe it to those who have suffered so much. The Basque Country must be equal to the rest of the free folk in the world. That's what men and women live here deserve, not less. The Basque Country must be independent and independent. That's the purpose of the Basque People gathering, and that's why she's going to go to work. Unfortunately, we are the only force that now wants to begin the road to the independent Basque People. And we're not enough yet, but we'll be. Throughout this speech I have heard a lot of references to reforms, to decision-making changes, to investments... In any normal country that would be a logical approach. Here, however, it is not. We're always looking back at Spain: "They won't let us," "they won't like it," "they're going to resort to it," "they're going to cancel it." "They've already appealed to us," "They've already annulled us." We think the time has come to say enough. We need to say that we don't want to live under anybody's yoke, we're mature. The majority of this Euscal parliament is that which admits that the Basque Country is a nation, and in so far as it is a nation, has a right to decide the future. The vast majority, derived from very different political traditions: Those who drink from the sources of liberalism, the Christian democracy, the social democracy, the marxistics, the left drugists, from many sources. A great majority acknowledges the nationality and the right of determining the American people. In this parliament there are at least 57 of the parliament, and moreover the first, second and third force of Parliament, which represent three-quarters of the voters. That is, three quarters of the electorate, 75% of those who voted in September, supported the right to decide. It is no longer worth talking about sufficient or insufficient majorities, lack of support... that another support, that another idea receives a higher level of support... I will try to make this very clear, so that everyone can understand me: 75% support, whether in this Parliament or in any other democratic system, is such a large majority that no one can question it. Everything else is excuses, and we will not accept that in the name of it is not well known which transversality, or much less in the name of which plurality, are extended veto rights in favour of anyone. There's no excuse. The right to decide is here and now the business to work. It has to be now. I have often said, and you have often heard me, ours is not eternity; this country has chosen us for four years, and not for six years or eight years. So it's necessary that in four years we can say to people, "Yes, we did," or "We're giving them a lot of steps." In order to do so, my team will propose immediate action in the Parliament for two main documents at the end of two years: One, saying that as this parliament, this Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuia, is only a member of Euscal Autonomy, is ready to make a democratic choice, and that he will not refuse that right in the future. And a second one that will work out how to do it. I really don't like the terms of the debate very much, and I don't think them very clear, and if it were for us, the duty of this committee or sub-variety would be to write a constitution directly. Today, a government presided over by Euskal Herria Bildu is the guarantee of being able to move forward on this path from this very moment on. But I've already said that as the Basque Country is the only one who's betting on independence, we know that we're going to have to get along with the rest of the teams. And we're ready on that road, as we said in the campaign, if the majority think that what we're supposed to agree on here is the affection of Madrid, that trip in Madrid to do it again. But we're not ready, and that's what we said in the campaign, when Madrid's refused, to keep his arms crossed. And therefore we think we ought to agree beforehand what we should do if this happens. We can't hold our arms crossed and we can't afford to put the decision in a drawer. And why do we ask Madrid to give us a no? For the monarchic restoration of the 75th century in Spain had a vice of origin: the new monarch was appointed by the dictator Franco, choosing also someone who did not touch him, jumping even the monarchic legitimacy itself, basically so that everything remained the same, tied and well bound. A constitution was then adopted to give any democratic appearance, but the vice of origin persisted and persisted. With more or less homologable forms, the central center of defense of unity, of maintenance of the great structures of power, remains unchanged in Spain. Spain has long been in trouble, and it has long been decided how to fix it, sometimes carrot and always stick. In Navarre, the Law of the Improvement, and Araba, Bizia, and Gipuzicus, the State of Guernica, are the last carrots, few, and few tastes, which are not yet filled. How many times has this parliament requested that the State of Guernica be filled? How many times has he asked for and how many more is he willing to ask? The State of Guernica has long been appointed for dead, because it does not answer the inspirations of this people, because it does not answer the necessities of this people. The Constitutional Court of Spain has made it perfectly clear: the excess is indivisible, and it is of the Spaniards. Respecting historical rights, but always respecting the Constitution. And if these rights were to be updated, the main axis of the Constitution of Spain ought to be respected. That is to say, the indivisible unity of Spain. That's all quite clear, you all know that. So we have to break that bell, and we must begin by taking steps to get rid of it. Therefore, we think that Madrid, who is ever going to give up his head, will again reject what he decides here, if he decides here at least that this nation is a nation and that he has a right to decide his future in freedom. And that's why it's not a chance to stand folded when you're refused. And since it's not an option, we'd like to put two more measures in motion. And that's why we're proposing that, in connection with the Basque President, the organization called Decoral Self-organ, should be created and murdered by the head of a distinguished academic individual. And it would be his job to have all the legal and technical tools that the Basque People will need to be independent. And with that, to reinforce the network for the New Year's out-of-town relationships in the world, without forgetting that he's up to this time had the right to decide the Basque Country and Basque Country to the cannibals of the world and to get to the opinions of the public. Things take step by step, and so we propose to do. But life is not linear, nor is it linear. Our object is to be prepared four years from here, and at any moment, if possible, at any moment, to have all the tools prepared for the independence of the Basque Country. I said this is the right thing to do, but not just here. Because the work done here will require protection from many of the agents of this country: the unions, especially the other motives of society, but also the municipal and diputations. Above all, the citizen will need us to push him. The people of the village will have the protagonism in this process, we, the legislators, need the popular impulse, and it will be our duty to answer the demands of the people. That's why we're calling for protection from two documents of the self-interest. Let the people say that the Basque People agree to be a nation, and that they have a right to decide; and let them say with that idea they agree, and give us an exact order, that they may give us understanding to defend themselves in the presence of the world, as well as in Madrid. We see that this can be done in 2018 at the Basque Country in Union: It's a bonding consultation around the new political state in 2018. He's been modified in Europe. Scotland will make a second referendum on independence by the time it comes to bruxit, President Puigdemont in Katalunia has ordered it for the next year's September. They make us wonder and envy each other. We are admired by both Scotland and Catalonia, because their citizenship has been able to articulate in a mature way to give way to an absolutely democratic demand, and also because their institutions have been able to rise to the level of citizenship, assuming the leadership that corresponds to them. Each country writes its story, Euskal Herria will write its own, but not to anyone's dictate. The wave of freedom that Europe is going through must and will also come to our country. Euskal Administrazioak azkarra eta gardena izan behar du. An administration must serve the citizenry, not the other way around. An administration that takes advantage of the ignorance of the administrators, or that plays with extending deadlines or giving a no for a response, believing that the citizen will have neither profit nor money to go to court, is not the administration we want. Before I keep talking about Administration, I don't want to forget its most important ingredient: people. The public workers have been the ones who, in hard years for them too – because they lowered their pay from night to morning, they have taken off an extra pay that they are recovering to locks and ravines, although the salary drop remains the same –... so I want to mention these men and women who, with their daily work, have managed to keep this country to a large extent their progress. There was no such thing as the company's company. And it is necessary to accept a law of transparency. There's no real problem with all the records of the administration being public, protecting personal data properly, of course. Information, all the information the Administration has, is that of the citizen, and not of the current government. The law of transparency forces all administrations and councils. The people who are informed are more mature, and being informed, it is easier to decide. The law of transparency is a step in order to enable the people to do so, but they must be given the right to decide with it. Therefore we shall bring together with the law of transparency a law of inquiry to this parliament, which will regulate the manner of consulting the peoples, in the town-level, in the rank of the people, in the rank of the people, in the court of the people, in the Biscay, and in the Gipuzic, we have no right to do so at all in the Basque Country. And with the law of the consuls, this parliament will open the gates to the public officers, and they themselves may be able to control them. They're citizens of politics who put us here, and not just for the people, but for the people, we have to work with the people. I, who have just come into this world, you all know, and it seems as if the villagers have been discussing it more naturally than the members of this Parliament for years past, that they have obtained their consent much more in a much more natural manner, and that we play a part here. Let's not make theaters. I dare to suggest to you, to suggest to all of us, that in this too, let us dissipate the way we do politics in Euskal Herria. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to ask for the confidence of this House because I firmly believe that our country needs to move forward. We've had many years of paralysis, and we can't afford to go on like this for another four years. And I come to ask for the confidence of this House because I believe that this people must tell the whole world, loud and clear, that there is a country here that wants to be free, because it wants to live better. Euskal Herria Bildu is the only guarantee that this can be done, and of course I assure you that we will work tirelessly, and that we will continue to work tirelessly. Mrs. President, members of Parliament, all of you invited to-day, the Basque Country must advance, win the future, we can't lose four more years, because we've been back and forth for many years. And we have to tell the world that the Basque People want to be free, that we want to be masters of ourselves, and that the Basque People are the only guarantee of it. And I give you my word that we will act with courage and strength until we have attained these ends, because we want to live better because we don't want to live under any one's yoke. "We are here saying that another world is possible, even to those who have tried to stop us. We are all the world, and that is why we hold out a hand, smiling, laughing at the four winds, to the four winds." These are the words of the verse Jon Maia, and they sum up well what I have meant to you in a great degree. We open our hands to the four political forces which are here, as we said at first, as we told you, and as we told you at first, and as we shall hereafter repeat to you, our hands are truly open. I want to say the same thing to all the social and unional agents in the Basque Country, to the women, to the men, to every citizen, to the four winds, the hands of the Basque Country are open. We're offering another culture to make a better and more advanced town. It's beautiful and it's not a dream, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you all very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Next, the President of the Urkullu Renteria has the word to explain the main lines of his government. At most, for 90 minutes. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u5	The lawmaster, the members of the legislature, the chief officers, the ladies and gentlemen, the lady of Irart, who is your rival, good day. This year it's 80 years since the first Eukong March, with Joseph Antonio Aguirre president. During these difficult times, commitment, solidarity, diversity, and co-operation prevailed. My God, I'm glad you're looking at the future. It's a pattern for us. He had a number of settlements, and he started making Euskadi's organization. He governed by a strong program, and by the way of agreement, with a man on the axis, the engagement for society was shown. Today, in mind of President Aguirre, we make his values at the beginning of this new legislation. I will report the purpose, the challenge, and the project in which I plan in this rehearsal session, regarding the year of 2020. I will present the basic lines of my political commitment to protect this legislature. I propose a program to answer the main challenges of our people: to promote human development, socialization, equality, and public services, to create employment, to strengthen and support economy, to promote life and human rights, and to acquire more and better self-gravitations for the Basques. The priority is the same as before: To guarantee economic growth and employment creation. The tendency and the estimation remain good, but we are still suffering the consequences of the crisis. I am sure we all agree in this: The best way to maintain economic growth and to form more employment and better quality is to ensure welfare. During these four years I have shown myself to be the President, and I have loved you as a commitment to social police and public services, as a guarantee of cohesion and the quality of life. I maintain my commitment to the patience of public politics, for I know that the best, most effective policy of society is to create opportunities of employment. During these four years Euskadin peace has been confirmed, the desire and the collective desire have been fulfilled. Now we must continue to unite and weave society; we must put an end to the annihilation and dissolution of the community. We have to jump to the true partnership. We must make Euskadi quits of a culture based on commitment to peace and human rights. It's an essential element in the making of Euskade. In order to understand the degree of well-being obtained in the last decades, it has been an indispensable element. This parliament reflects the political and social diversity of Eucharistics. As far as this law reflects it, it is the main institution to support the self-organization and seek another political sphere for the future. We've got to work together for this challenge, we've got to find a way to combine and respect the principle of democratic and legal principle. To face these challenges of the people must proceed from a necessary premise: to secure the stability and authority of the institutions, to create the confidence and confidence which our people require to advance. Euskati has shown that political agreements, institutions, and private public agreements are capable. We know how complex and how difficult our environment is: State, Europe and global stage. He's got to hold on to the agreement and the interaction, to keep going and to guarantee the future. I compare it with the objective of getting your support to be the Lehendakari of Euskadi. I am aware of the complexity and difficulties of our environment, committed to an Euskadi that manages to maintain the spirit of agreement and collaboration in order to further advance and guarantee the future. The elections of 25 September have again shown that Euskadi is a diverse and plural society. The example is found in the composition of this House. The result obtained by the candidacy of the Basque Nationalist Party that I headed has full legitimacy to propose my investiture, but it is clear that it is not enough. In recent weeks, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party have worked to broaden their support for my candidacy and put forward a programme for the future. The agreement reached creates a core that provides stability for the Government's action, although there is no doubt that there will be a need for ongoing work to seek agreements and support in order to advance the governance of Euskadi. We present a programme to respond to the fundamental challenges of a growing country. They are the four pillars of our project: one, human development, social integration, equality and quality public services; two, employment, reactivation and sustainability; three, coexistence and human rights; and four, more and better self-government. Four pillars that form the solid foundation on which to build further the strategy of human development and sustainable growth of Euskadi; to do so, moreover, with the support of a society in peace and with more self-government. We face this new stage by assuming the principles of realism, responsibility and sustainability of political and institutional action. Our priority remains to ensure growth and generate employment; this is undoubtedly the best social policy. We maintain the demonstrated commitment to essential public services, as a guarantee of cohesion and quality of life. These four years have meant the confirmation of peace in Euskadi. It is up to us to continue weaving the social encounter, moving from coexistence to genuine coexistence. Self-government is the engine of the institutionalization of Euskadi, and explains the levels of well-being that we have achieved. Government and Parliament must work shoulder to shoulder to complete, update and continue to advance in the Basque self-government. Responding to these priorities requires creating the conditions of confidence and certainty that our country needs. To this end, we propose a programme that is based on ensuring the stability and governance of public institutions. I thank the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party for their efforts to reach a consensus on a vision of Euskadi and the action to be taken by the new Government, and I quote, on behalf of all the people who have made this agreement possible, Andoni Ortuzar and Idoia Mendia. Eskerrik asko. This agreement intersects with a history of collaboration launched with the first Basque Government, now eighty years ago. Today we are presenting a programme that is also intertwined with the collaboration of this past legislature. In September 2013, we developed and agreed on the employment and economic recovery plan, a plan that has worked and continues to bear fruit. The Socialist Party has negotiated and approved our Government's budgets over the past three years. We have jointly participated in peace and coexistence initiatives, highlighting the launch of the Gogora Institute. And today it is pertinent to recall that the last transfers of Basque self-government were made with the last socialist government of the State. We re-edit this spirit of collaboration, and we do so with a project that presents itself with the hand extended to all groups. We will maintain political dialogue and seek agreements that will allow us to move forward and develop Euskadi. I have to admit that in the comparative analysis of the electoral programmes of the five parliamentaryly represented political parties, we have found great coincidences. Since humility, this intervention is aimed at strengthening the spirit of collaboration and agreement. We offer our hand to move forward from consensus in responding to the great challenges of our country. Our political action over the past four years will develop in a global environment of uncertainty. Economic, social and political reality is complex. Europe is at the heart of this new reality: tension in the countries of the East, the Islamic war in the Middle East, international terrorism, the refugee crisis or Brexit are putting the spirit of European construction to the test. In the coming months and years we are going to experience moments of instability and redefining. Our future project for Europe is the same as we want for Euskadi: a competitive and just Europe, moving towards an area of greater political, social and economic integration. In this regard, I would like to align myself with the decisions aimed at implementing an economic policy that will bet on growth and investment in Europe. I expressed it to the European leaders gathered at the Economic Forum held in Bilbao, and I reaffirm it. We must maintain economic and budgetary rigour. However, we must support the growth cycle by linking our economic capacity to productive investment. This is the development model in which we create: stimulus policies, productive investment, and social awareness. Furthermore, I agree with the idea that Europe needs to be reinvented. We are at a key moment in redefining the European project, regaining its social dimension and betting on greater integration. It is essential for further progress from a shared project. The commemoration of the Treaty of Rome in the coming months should be the time to embark on a new European project of which Euskadi wants to be a participant. As far as the State is concerned, reality is marked by the instability and the necessary redefinition of its own project. The composition of the new Spanish Government has not cleared up doubts and uncertainties. Political fragmentation is a reality throughout Europe, also in Euskadi, but the lack of dialogue and understanding marks Spain's political future. The updating of the State model, assuming its plurinational character, needs to be addressed with determination. We need to bet on a different social and economic model. This situation affects Euskadi; therefore, we propose that the State move along a path in which nations find our recognition and build a new economic and social model for the future. Euskadi is on the right track. The data on economic economic development in the quarter is positive and is being fixed in Eukadin's constant employment fund. I mean, Euko GMI only recently knew about growth data. Eupal economy has arrived at 3% growth and will continue to increase in the next year. It is very important to promote growth, which is the way to ensure the production of employment, and to improve the conditions of the acquired job. We've had growth in the next quarter. To maintain this tendency is to obtain the principal aim of this legislation: unemployment to be below 10% and to improve contractation conditions. It must be observed that the growth of the Esscal economy is partly due to the increased activity of the Euscal industry. As I have said, growing and forming employment is the best policy of society. From this Illus, I want to remark that he stands up from Euka to maintain public services and social policies. It's the basic media of social welfare, and that's why they're going to keep being the priority of the Eulega's talk in the years to come. I repeat, in our ideas, and in our commitment, there is this great concept: We're going out. If necessary, stay still, but we'll go out together like a cohesion of society. This is a shared challenge. We challenge from a reliable and responsible community of organization. We are convinced that this is the main thing to support the patience of public policy, which is to trust the economic environment and help to invest Eukadin. I said it was going well, but we've got to deal with so many subjects, even in society. I know and accept the wants of society. Growing and getting busy isn't enough. The most important thing is to keep this growth slowly increasing as it progresses in time. You have to guarantee it. We must challenge the patience of public politics. We must also improve the capacity of investment, especially in the field of innovation. We have to move forward, too, in the principle of equality. We have to offer options to the young Basques, to help them get their job and property. For the last few months we've had an interesting public debate about all these matters. A great part of the Basque society has put confidence in the niceties we introduced in the past September. I'd like to send you some of the basic commitments from the Masters of the four years to-day. Our primary social priority is the big commitment to fun. Our strategy is the model that combines the real economic projections and employment policies, which are the two sides of the same coin. This is a nation's challenge, and it's fun that takes responsibility. We've got to use all our skills and resources at the jobs station. Hence we promise a new employment plan, which will include so many exact measures for young men's employment. We'll give him the priority to work, and that's why we'll set up new local and regional work plans in conjunction with public institutions. We'll encourage him with his training, and we'll even encourage him to defend action. We're gonna force small and average companies and help even autonomous companies. We'll expand the measures to settle local commerce, including the building Renove programs, which is a strong sector to create employment. We know that in a modern and advanced society, corporations produce jobs. That's why we have to support the competitive training and we have to adapt our economy to our future roots. This is the other side of the coin, the supplementary, the support of the economy; in investment, in innovation, in internationalization, and in manufactures, we are in favor of business. We agree with this purpose: unemployment must descend from 10%. We also agree with this: Twenty thousand young people have to offer a first chance to work and you need to improve the quality of the contraction. To do this, we will encourage collective negotiation and social agreement. With this we are engaged to reform the Service, and modernize the Professional Parliament. We plan a new model of administration, a model of management which will give preference to active employment policies. Human development, social integration, equality and quality public services are the firm foundation on which our project is based. This is our first pillar. The duty of the public administration is to ensure the dignity of people, essential living conditions, the redistribution of wealth and care for the most disadvantaged. Cohesion and social justice are essential for the future of Euskadi, to remain a competitive country. This is a personal and political conviction that is part of our idea. We are committed to a fair and competitive country. Euskadi has been meaning since the 1980s to develop its own social agenda for integration and equality. Twenty - seven years ago, we were the pioneer community in setting in motion the minimum income for insertion. In recent years this social agenda has been at the centre of the action of our Government, I would say that of all the Basque public institutions. We have lived years of growing needs and very limited public resources. Ensuring social policies has been the priority, and will continue to be at the heart of the new Government's action. This is a central commitment of our project: to consolidate income guarantee income as an instrument of social cohesion. We will promote social inclusion, ensure quality and accessible social services. Our challenge is shared, and is to reduce the poverty rate in Euskadi by 20%. Social policies form the area with a higher level of shared competence. Our commitment is to improve management and effectiveness, to better care for the most disadvantaged. We will deepen coordination with outlaws and municipalities to ensure the sustainability of the Basque system of social services. Our concrete commitments are: to regulate and provide sustainability to the services and services included in the Social Services Portfolio Decree; to guarantee social emergency aid; to develop the right to housing in the terms recognized by the law adopted in this House; and to promote specific legislation that addresses energy poverty, a reality that we must continue to combat. Health and education are two basic public services of advanced and well-being society. We believe in the universal right to health, and we aim to continue to improve progressively the quality of health services offered by Osakidetza. Concrete commitments? Deployment of palliative care plan, strategic cancer plan, special attention to people with addiction problems, increased investment in research and health innovation, new infrastructure in Eibar, BioCruces, Txagorritxu or Basurto. Public education is a guarantee of social cohesion and equal opportunities. This is a priority of our project. We have managed to ensure a level of universal quality; it is clear that our next challenge is to continue to advance in excellence. We have made concrete commitments: an educational pact for a new Basque education law, a project that will require broad consensus with the educational community and also within this Parliament. More commitments adopted: teacher training and stability; investment in new educational infrastructures in Basauri, Ugao, Güeñes, Bilbao, Muskiz, Zabalgana-Errekabarri in Gasteiz, Bergara, Hernani, Zestoa or Zumaia; promotion of technological modernization of education; strengthening of research career scholarship policy; promotion of university-enterprise programmes; and new vocational training plan. We also advocate human and cultural development for coexistence, and we share the following commitments: to promote an inclusive and open culture, we will continue the Kultura Auzolanean program, and increase support for the network of artists and creative people, especially in its external projection. To advance in a bilingual society. In this regard, we will maintain the path of consensus achieved by the Euskera Strategic Agenda and develop the proposals of the document "Eta hemendik aurrera zer?", with a medium - and long - term vision. We will strengthen collaboration with the Government of Navarre and the Euskararen Erakunde Publikoa institution to spread a positive image and project the euskera abroad. We have made specific commitments to promote the emancipation of young people: labour integration, access to housing, promotion of a comprehensive health programme, responsible consumption, sports, solidarity and youth volunteering. The programme we present guarantees security as an essential public service. We demand the role of Ertzaintza as an integral police force of Euskadi, and we will maintain the commitments of closeness to citizenship, prevention and coordination, information and research, as well as to advance in the professional orientation of Ertzaintza in the face of new threats, such as international terrorism, organized gangs, or monetary or economic crimes. In order to meet these objectives, it is essential to ensure generational renewal and to consolidate the Ertzaintza workforce in the terms approved by this Parliament. Our programme also acquires a commitment to equality. Public policies aim at ensuring real equality between men and women, eradicating gender-based violence, ensuring equal work and pay, and promoting reconciliation and co-responsibility. In this regard, I stress for its relevance the commitment to the promotion of a new law, the incorporation of measures for the economic and moral reparation, as well as the social recognition, of the victims of violence against women. This Friday, 25 November, is the date declared by the United Nations General Assembly as the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. I would like to reiterate that the Basque Government expresses its firm revulsion at all expressions of gender-based violence, a violence that stems from the inequality in our society between women and men. So far the first pillar of our programme, focusing on human development, social integration, equality and quality public services. Euskadi is making progress in the area of economic recovery and employment. This is our second pillar. Quarterly evolution data are positive, and job creation is based. Last October the registered unemployment was in quotas of five years ago, and we have exceeded the figure of 920,000 people contributing to Social Security. I stress for its relevance the positive trend in the industry sector. Euskadi accumulates five quarters growing above 3 % of gross domestic product. It is important to maintain this growth path in order to achieve our central objective of this Parliament: to place unemployment below 10% and improve the conditions of recruitment. This is the way to ensure the sustainability of public policies, which is essential to give confidence to the economic environment and promote investment in the Basque Country. We need to improve our investment capacity, especially in innovation, further progress in equality policies, and provide new opportunities for young people. Today I present the essential commitments of the next Government based on a shared model: support for the real productive economy and active employment policies. The first commitment is to adopt a new 2020 framework programme for employment and economic recovery that will continue the joint strategy launched in September 2013. We take on new commitments: reform and modernisation of Lanbide, development of strategic industrial projects, support for entrepreneurship, local and regional employment plans, dual training, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed persons, promotion of tourism and local trade, promotion of investment in infrastructure and sustainable mobility, and development of Euskadi as a logistical node of the European Atlantic axis. We start from a premise: employment is generated by the company. And that's why we're going to prioritize their competitiveness, reinforcing their actions in investment, innovation, internationalization and industry. It is important to work with a shared vision and a strategy for the future. Euskadi has to face the new industrial and economic revolution. The Basque economy has a differential advantage over its environment: it is based on industry, knowledge and advanced services. That's the way it has to be. As we did in the 1980s and 1990s with industrial restructuring, or in the first decade of this century with internationalisation, we now have to bet on knowledge, innovation and digitisation. Our commitment is in line with the Science, Technology and Innovation 2020 Plan and the commitment to smart specialization RIS3. It is necessary to focus our efforts on strategic sectors and activities with greater scientific and technological capabilities, with more entrepreneurial potential in Euskadi. Our sustainable growth model is based on the Basque Industry 4.0 plan, a commitment that leads us to foster entrepreneurship, promote specialization, and develop new emerging sectors. We will materialize scientific and technological diversification through food industries, urban habitat and sustainable construction, ecosystem regeneration, and cultural and creative industries. We are aware of the central role of research, innovation and technology. That is why we have committed an annual growth of 5% of the public budget in this area. This is a collective challenge; therefore it is necessary that all Basque companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, continue to be incorporated into the innovation train, which is the train of the future. The public-private effort is the guarantee to improve competitiveness in our companies and to establish the social well-being of Euskadi. We encourage growth and encourage endurance growth. He's taken part in the Paris exchange on the change of climate. We're committed to this: 20% decrease the heat effects gas. Euskadi's development must be balanced and bearable. We're developing a new example of the local organisation. By these means we shall plan the future of our country, and, on the other hand, we shall watch for the preservation of our activities, and do so according to the criteria of endurance. Our wager for the integration of the Basque capital is favorable to the concept of the Basque City. We will defend the balance between the land and the suburbs and the city, and we will defend those who are smart. These will be the ends of our environmental policy: Politics against climate change, my dearrgematic transition of Euchardi, and the preservation of the natural beach. We'll defend Father's house. Our home is Basque territory. That's why we're even engaged to guard and defend the area. The next few years will be essential to the development of infrastructure, which is necessary for the Basque and the People. We're going to go for the public transport and the bearable motion, i.e. we've got to improve the tram and the BRT, we need to invest in them. We also have to improve and increase our railway line. It's important also to clear up all the doubts that are about Euskal Y which will become the main nerve system of Euskia. We have to be committed to a high-speed train starting. A galga of every year is reduced to the cooperation of the capitals, and to our logistical capacity, the need we are to associate with Europe. Our model is responsible, modern, transparent, effective review. We will continue to work in order to raise and create employment, to maintain social police and basic services, to develop the territory, and thus to support the prosperity and competition of the Basques. That's right, we'll hold our responsibility in the management and beauty of economic stability. That's why we made this commitment. We must be careful in the management of public resources, because that is the identity of our economy and the production of the budget. To abuse deficiencies and public debts is a danger due to the middle term. He's got a certified caudation from Euskka, and we've shown him how to get the public debt for negative fees last week. We're gonna stick to the strict commitment to public policies by responsibilities and funding. In this field, the cooperation between organizations is indispensable within the scope of the Basque Council. In this Forum, together with the forum and the municipal towns, we've already committed an engagement to encourage the prosecutor and to evaluate the existing Basque district. This is also a priority of our program. As for the internal administration functions, we propose constantly to modify the technology and to rejuvenate the plans of the officials. It's been planned that a lot of public employees will retire in the next few years. We'll plan the replacement of these workers by public offers. We must face another challenge, equality between men and women. We'll make it easy for a professional career especially for women, who have to break up part of their professional life because of family commitments. With this, we will continue to manage the planet of equality, by means of which we shall develop an integrated policy against violence. The administration will continue to support the maximum degree of transparency and will constantly revert to its new requirements. We will do for all this: to make the data available to the people, to account for public management, and to get public sharing processes, as a tool for a larger democratic quality. An effective management requires commitments. Today we are engaged in the first months of 2017 to present four basic documents for an efficient public management: The 2017 budget, the government program, the legislation calendar progress, and the new 2020 plan to promote jobs and refresh the economy. This is the way to ensure a good government, and to recover the confidence which society has had in its administration and public representatives. The development of Euskadi must be balanced and sustainable. The new international agenda adopted in September 2015 by leaders from 190 countries, at the United Nations summit in New York, offers Euskadi an opportunity to build a future project aligned with the challenges of the global scenario. In fact, the commitment of this 2030 agenda not to leave anyone behind coincides with the firmer commitment that as lehendakari I have transferred to Basque society and that we re-edit today. Our commitment is to meet the sustainable development goals in collaboration with the rest of the institutions. We understand that the instruments of public policy coherence will enable us to move forward in initiatives aimed at ending inequality and poverty, ensuring the preservation of a sustainable territory. In this sense, we are in full development of the new guidelines of territorial planning, a commitment for the integration of the Basque capitals, for the balance between the territory and the urban spaces. The concrete commitment to policies against climate change, energy transition, public transport and the conservation of natural heritage will be at the heart of our environmental policy. Let us also commit to responsible, modern, transparent and effective management. Euskadi has proven creditworthiness, and we will maintain commitment to public policies from self-responsibility and compliance with financial guidelines. We remain committed to the principles of new governance. The culture of transparency, participation, ongoing evaluation and continuous improvement are essential elements of good governance. In this sense, today we undertake to present in the first months of the year the 2017 budget, government programme, framework programme for employment and economic recovery 2020, and progress of the legislative calendar. In relation to the government program and the 2017 budgets, we are aware of the real economic and financial capacity of Basque institutions. In any case, the framework programme for employment and reactivation is our priority, and we commit an allocation of €8.5 billion by 2020. As for the legislative timetable, we start with a commitment to nineteen bills. The five pending adoptions in this Parliament include the fourteen bills that we have committed to in our agreement: energy sustainability; environment, climate change and nature conservation; sustainable mobility; amendment of the Transport Authority's law; Basque public employment; organisation and operation in the Basque public sector; transparency, citizen participation and good governance; Basque education law; Basque vocational training; cultural heritage; updating of the Sports Act; sports professions; law on victims of violence against women; and amendment of the Basque Police Act. I have moved the commitments that we have made to Basque society and that we have been able to bring together on a government agenda that we are presenting to this Parliament today. Our project comes from the agreement: we share a diagnosis and a strategy; we share concrete commitments to meet the present and future needs of Basque society from the government. In this regard, I would like to stress that a government agreement is a country agreement. I shall now refer to the other two pillars of our agreement. These are two areas of political and institutional life that are fundamental to the future of the Basque Country: definitive peace and a living society; self-government as a key to the political and social development of Basque society. All public institutions and political parties and society as a whole are called upon to participate and contribute with a high level of vision and shared responsibility. That is what I see and what we will be promoting since the action of the Government. From Euskaki, he has to make peace and live for ever. Five years ago he announced that he would permanently leave the terrorist activity. We've lived in peace for five years. Great steps have been taken in the field of cooperation and political debate has been normalized. We've gone a step ahead. For we have gathered together with victims, and have confessed them all as victims. High school in memory has come up with a high degree of approval. It's been a big step, but there's still something to do. First, this must be done. He must leave his weapons forever and destroy them, and he must disappear. He is again overcome by social and political reality. You have to step forward, and quickly. If not, it will be rejected to end once and for all with an orderly manner. I'm sure it's just gonna be an open attitude to get those goals. In the same way, we think we need another policy of prisons, a policy of prisons that meet this new era. I've been sending it to the President of the Spanish Government during the last four years, and I'm still doing it. The main field of work that will have in this new legislation will be a partnership and human rights. We're just trying to get on with living. In like manner, we seek to strengthen the euscal society which has pledged itself to peace and the culture of human rights. The auto-organ is the key to the political and social development of the euscal society. In the presence of this parliament, I have shown that we have greatly advanced in the organization of Euskadi by means of Esska autoberane. We've been running for over 80 years and the re-election of almost four decades ago has given us the greatest degree of development, cohesion, and well-being known throughout Eukadi's history. I think it was fundamental to the effective and responsible activity of self-organization. I have, however, pointed out before this legislature that I have been greatly troubled by the Spanish Government during these four years, by the process which it has begun to restore to centralization. Today I repeat that there is a high foundation hope for a new political organization for the Basques to make a new political pact. In this business, this legislature will not start from scratch. In the Prelimination of the Autognation Committee, a road has taken place. We want to move forward, we can move forward and we have to move forward. We've got the tool here, and we're going to propose once more that we're setting up the self-organization committee. In this Forum, we will defend the state of Guernica, and work to complete it. We shall also make use of the forum to make a new political agreement for Euscadi and propose a treaty to the State. After all, this is our commitment: We must encourage and develop a process with as much resolution as possible, in order to update in this legislation the treaty of the State of Esscal. We believe that we must obtain the greatest possible harmony, for the end is to strengthen life, and, on the other hand, to acquire multiplicity, progress, and the welfare of the people. So far, I've introduced four main columns of our project. Then I want to make four general challenges. It is the challenges of the country, which we must face in collective terms, for our future is at stake. One is an educational issue. The education, preparation, and ability of the people who compose a society are essential to the development of all these people. He's a retired Basque in Europe and has been confessed to be so. He's already filled up in Euskaki the objectives of education established in Europe for 2020. However, we still have many important challenges: To improve the quality of education, to extend it as a profession, to apply it to college, to increase the international character of the university, to improve the combination between training and company, to encourage talent, to hold and recover, to support science, technology, and innovation. If a society wants to be an advanced society, it has to be based on an advanced economy, an advanced education system. Two, the challenge of the demography and the wager for the young. We have a collective commitment: if society is to grow young, the rate of birth must rise, and politics ought to be encouraged to aid families. Our demographic pyramid is unbalanced and it doesn't guarantee that we're going forward as a society. This endangers the endurance and loss of the well-being system for our growth and development. We must therefore take a collective hold of the family, of the rate of birth, of immigration, and of old age. In this country, it will be a priority to promote and increase the policies addressed to the young. Three, Euskadi's innovation. To increase innovation, to resist the society of information and technology, is a challenge to Basques. We must treat of the new culture of innovation in all nations: in society, institutions, science, and technology. In the industrial zone, we need to default Project Basque Industry 4.0. On the other hand, we must facilitate the digitalization of the administration, of trade, of preparation, and in general of society. Four, a local shared project. This is a crucial moment for Euskadi's future. We have to look at the future from a common point of view. It's important to have a shared perspective on the romances and the way we're going. We're talking about a country project. We must share this future with these institutions, and we must share the ends, and the means to attain it. It must be a project that unites with society, with company, and the principal institutions of our country. We need to push a strategy that stares at the future and the global world. It's obvious that Esscal is a record company who has great ability to face the global challenge. Companies have a strong knowledge of their internationalizations. Today, it's a firm outside of these companies to keep them in the future in the Euchadin. The Euskadi economy area must be extended, yes, that's how it is. But with the precursors of institutions, the university, the corporations, and the professionals we have to promote that opening. That's the ability to be in the new global web and to influence it. Euskadi Basque Country strategy that looks into the future and global world. We are even beholding Europe, where we participate in its construction by means of a solid platform, namely, the project of their reference. We'll also strengthen that project with the new active participation of the Foru community of Navarre. All these challenges are essential to our future. I propose to take it as a challenge to the whole country. I have highlighted four issues that go beyond the action of a legislature: a pact for education, a demographic challenge, a commitment to innovation, and a shared country project. One. Pact for education. We have consolidated a universal service; our challenge is to continuously improve the quality of education. Our commitment is to extend dual vocational training and apply it to the university, to increase the international character of the university, to improve the training-enterprise connection, to encourage and recover talent, to bet on science, technology and knowledge. Two. Demographic challenge and youth bet. We have analysed the future projections of the population in Euskadi, and we are aware of the impact on public spending. In 2025, public spending on policies affected by population ageing will thus amount to 11.6% of gross domestic product (11.6% of gross domestic product).)). The sustained reduction of the working-age population, the fall in the number of active and employed persons, makes it necessary to increase the birth rate and encourage policies to support families. The demographic challenge is also the challenge of immigration, the assumption of diversity and the culture of integration that strengthens social cohesion. We will promote genuine intercultural coexistence, including the programme for the reception of refugees. The rejuvenation of Basque society also demands a commitment decided by the youth in the present. Thus, we will give priority to commitments to facilitate labour integration, access to housing and the emancipation of young people. Three. Innovation and digitisation of Euskadi. We will promote social and public innovation, scientific and technological innovation. We take on the challenge of digitisation of administration, commerce, training or society as a whole, especially in the industrial sphere through the Basque Industry 4.0 programme. Pact for education, demographic challenge, innovation... and four, a shared country project. Our commitment is the Basque Country strategy with the focus in Europe, in whose construction we participate through the Euroregion project that we will strengthen with the incorporation of the Foral Community of Navarre. A project that we will strengthen and involves the opening of Euskadi to the outside world in the economic sphere as well as universities, institutions, associations and society in general. This project is based on the Euskadi that we are and are building, the Euskadi that we want to project to the world: a Euskadi in peace, socially cohesive, open to the outside, prosperous, modern, competitive, inclusive and solidarity; a Euskadi with trained and committed people, with values. In short, a Euskadi proud of its history and trajectory, also aware that it has much to learn and offer in this global, open and complex world. These four challenges are accompanied by a context of opportunity. We begin this legislature with a reasonable expectation that the international context of economic revival will be consolidated, and we also have a commitment to respond to two fundamental pillars for our future: consolidation of peace and coexistence, updating of self-government. They reflect an aspiration of society as a whole, which finds its representation in the political plurality of this Parliament. Policy has a dual component of competence and cooperation (comparison, and agreement). The grandeur of politics reaches its greatest deployment when different political choices decide, from the point of view, country commitment, ethical principle or higher value motive, park their differences and bet on a common cause. That's when they decide to agree to win society. This happens very exceptionally, only when there are causes or opportunities that justify it. I firmly believe that we now have two causes before us that justify it. In the area of peace, memory, coexistence and human rights, I propose that we give up winning by a majority to win by agreement. I know no cause with greater ethical and political justification than to consolidate peace and establish an inclusive and memoryful coexistence. The project I am presenting is inspired by this idea. As far as self-government is concerned, I propose that we give up winning each other with short regattas; I propose a far-reaching look, a point of respectful encounter with the plurality of feelings of national belonging in our society. No solution is better than an agreed solution. This is the philosophy underlying the project I present: respect for the principle of legality and the democratic principle, the ability to decide and the obligation to agree, a meeting point to accommodate the plural reality of our society. We have an immense opportunity to achieve in this legislature two strategic and historic political agreements for the future of Euskadi. The key is to put at the centre the recognition of the plural reality of our society and, consequently, to act in an honest and democratic way. We need heights of vision and empathy to understand that all political sensitivities must find their place in our country. We are moving rapidly and irreversibly towards coexistence after the end of terrorism and violence. Undoubtedly, there are pending steps; the most important is the dissolution of ETA. The Basque Government wishes to continue to contribute to the agenda of commitments for coexistence and human rights: commitment to an orderly end of violence; commitment to victims, with memory, to the reorientation of prison policy; commitment to the culture of coexistence; commitment to the emerging challenges of human rights and diversity. I firmly believe that we in the Basque society, parties and institutions have the duty, responsibility and the capacity to face a path to a definitive, orderly and just conclusion with violence and terrorism; a path to social and political coexistence. Euskadi has the opportunity to grow institutionally; it can do so from the experience begun eighty years ago and re-started four decades ago. Self-government is a fundamental element of our project for Euskadi. We affirm that full compliance with the Statute is necessary, we note a strong renationalizing momentum, and we share that the territorial model of the State needs a reformulation taking on its own plurinational reality. Government and Parliament must work together to defend Basque self-government, achieve full compliance with the Statute of Gernika and also improve the institutional architecture of the country. We are faced with the opportunity to reach a new statutory pact for the future. With these objectives we will propose to reactivate the self-government presentation. An open dialogue between all groups must be pursued in this Parliament and, from the freedom of every political formation, we must try to reach a plural agreement with as much consensus as possible. Today I reaffirm my personal and political conviction: it is time to move forward in a new political framework of coexistence in Euskadi which, based on the institutional consensus reached in this Parliament, articulates a new pact with the State and is ratified by Basque society. I reaffirm my moral and political conviction: Euskadi is a nation that must be recognized. Euskadi needs effective bilaterality mechanisms to ensure compliance with the agreement with the State. I reaffirm my personal and political conviction in the culture of the pact, in the democratic principle and in the principle of legality. These four years Euskadi has been able to make collaboration and agreement a powerful tool to move forward. This must remain the centrepiece of our country's political culture. So I believe, so I try to exercise my institutional responsibility, and so I will, because it is a personal conviction and because Euskadi needs it. I'm making a commitment today. Our hand is stretched, because it is necessary to extend to the maximum the culture of collaboration: collaboration between political parties, collaboration between institutions, public-private collaboration, collaboration also with the State. This spirit of collaboration is essential in order to achieve the country objectives we share with 2020: to place Euskadi among the world's top three positions in the human development index; to reduce the poverty rate by 20%; to reduce the unemployment rate below 10%; to definitively consolidate peace and coexistence; and to agree on a new framework for updating the statutory pact. I'm done. I come to this debate of investiture with renewed illusion, conscious of the responsibility I assume as lehendakari if I am elected. We live in a fundamental moment, a time of change and uncertainty, with difficulties and needs, but it is certainly a time of opportunity for Euskadi. It would be an honour to continue to represent the values of Basque society, to continue to apply the formula of realism, truth and work that has allowed us to move forward. I have presented to this Parliament the draft and the commitments for this economic, social and political moment. It is a project open to collaboration. I ask for the confidence of this Parliament to be invested in Euskadi's lehendakari. I have neither fallen nor will fall into unrealizable or unsustainable approaches, nor into inconsistent offerings or speeches lacking a firm basis. I plan a sustainable project, with social sensitivity and economic viability to make it a reality. I take on the principles of realism and responsibility, I also take on the principles of solidarity and social justice. I've proven it with facts. I compromise these principles from two basic premises: to ensure the economic and budgetary viability of our project, and to guarantee the future sustainability of the initiatives we put in place. I believe in political action. I am aware that here we have a higher level of social trust and credibility. It's our social capital. In the dialectic policy versus politics in Euskadi, the commitment to a program, good governance, the concrete results of a public service well managed by competent people, with ethical and professional behavior is paramount. My aspiration is that in Euskadi we will be able to combine politics and politics, we will be able to maintain confidence and credibility in political action and institutional responsibility. This is my goal. It has been an honor to represent a society that has worked hard (society has worked hard) to overcome the difficult situation we were in. It would be an honor to re-represent the values of Basque society as lehendakari. I face this new stage with commitment, illusion and responsibility. I believe in a government open to the pact and collaboration. We are going to face a far-reaching legislature for the future of Euskadi; we are therefore facing a collective challenge from which no one can be left out. I repeat that our hand is stretched out, I am aware that no one has the complete reason. The sum of all the reasons will enable us to overcome the challenges we face as a society. I wish to inform you of my engagements in the presence of all of you and of the euscal society. We are in an important moment, in a period of change and doubt. We have many difficulties and wants, but no doubt it is time for our people. It was an honor to replace the euscal society, for it is the society that has labored, the society which has worked well. It would be an honour to me to continue to represent the values of euscal society. I have advanced this legislature by a project which I consider necessary for this moment. Open project, open union. We will face the wants and the future of the eucalyptic society with success. We need this spirit to overcome our goals as a people looking at 2020 years: to place in the index of human development in the first three stations of the world, to reduce the rate of poverty to 20%; to reduce the rate of unemployment to less than 10%; to fix peace and cooperation once for all, to assign a new scope for updates of state property. I demand the trust of this parliament to be president of Basque affairs. With commitment, with illusion and responsibility, I will face this new stage. On my side, realism is guaranteed, truth and work, a lot of work. I come with a renewed illusion. It is essential to believe in a better future of your country to arrive at a work that will enable it to attain it. I'm offering commitment. I accept with complete confidence and enthusiasm the challenge to make a president and a new saucy. You departmental chief, your work and all your efforts have been dedicated. You have completed an effective workgroup, and have given all things for our people, always ready to work. We move forward. We are ready to work, and ready to follow the course of conversation and agreement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u6	Please be quiet. Thank you, Mr. Urkullu. At this point the entire meeting stops until two-thirty. It was eleven and fifty-five. At two o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-one o'clock the meeting resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u7	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting again. Next, the representatives of the legislative parties will speak to the greatest of the smallest, at the most 30 minutes each. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you on this. Very good afternoon. Mr Urkullu, I have read carefully the agreement which you have signed, which you have signed with the Socialist Party of Euskadi to incorporate it into the government which you now intend to form. I have also listened carefully to your speech this morning. I would like to tell you that the intervention seemed rather to me to be that of a delegate adviser who reports the Council's agreements to the general shareholders' meeting. In any case, I would like to begin by congratulating you most sincerely on the pact you have reached. Sometimes someone got so much in exchange for so little, Mr. Urkullu. You leave three vice-advisors who have little political weight, and you get your partner, who is, by the way, the same as the last four years, with whom you share armchairs in parliaments and municipalities, to accept your unique nationalist thinking and to accept your unique nationalist language throughout the text. And they even get me to accept and include a sovereignist road map in this Parliament for this parliamentary term. Not only that, but they also get the Socialist Party of Euskadi to renounce the postulates that with such ardour, and with particular anger on the part of the representatives of the PNV, had defended Mrs Mendia during the last election campaign. Remember that about eliminating the knowledge of Basque as a requirement for access to the Basque Administration. Or something that also draws attention to our group, such as their rejection of the fact that article 149.1.1 of the Constitution can be invoked from State institutions, which it attributes to the regulation of the basic conditions that guarantee the equality of all Spaniards in the exercise of their rights and in the fulfilment of their constitutional duties. Equality. He doesn't like equality anymore. But with everything. Moreover, they add a clause that allows you to defend at every moment whatever you like and to agree with whomever suits you. That is true – and of this there is no doubt in the text either – and what is going to be discussed is the recognition of Euskadi as a nation and the right to decide of the Basque people, always within the law, as when the Ibarretxe Plan. And you're getting it signed by the Basque Socialist Party. That you couldn't have put anything on, overlooked it, but no, there's black on white. That, Mr Urkullu, if I may, is to take too much advantage of the partner's weakness. Mrs Mendia says that this is a cross-cutting agreement, which I do not know exactly what it means, being the case in which we are dealing with such an unequal and unbalanced agreement in favour of the PNV's most demanding theses. And he also says that it is historical, that I also do not get very well in this case to understand what it means, how it will be remembered, in what history of uncertainty and division it can bring us, as it is not because, in fact, the postulates it incorporates are the historical postulates of the PNV in its worst moments of rupture with Spain. I confess I feel better treated. We were kicked out of the Bureau of this Parliament, but we were not given any papers. They threw us all out of the government of Vitoria, but we didn't have to bet anything. And that is why today we can keep our political discourse here in defence of the Constitution and in defence of the Statute stronger than ever. In defense of the unity of Spain, of the equality of the Spaniards, of Basque forality, of our historical rights. In defense of the agreement of this plural society that we form the Basques with Spain and with Europe. But now that you have expelled the PP from any area of political decision from which you have been able to expel him and have tied the Basque Socialist Party to the cart of his power, you are already sitting with your hands free so that this legislature will not go blank and you can roll your new status out of the hands of the sovereignist majority of this House. This is the central commitment of his Government, and it is also the main threat facing Basque society, which most questions the political stability on which the social and economic progress of the Basques depends. The bets, Mr Urkullu, are divided between those who maintain that you are not going to do anything but make a loss in a paper that does not lead to any place, as happened in the previous legislature, and those who maintain that this time it is serious, and that there will be a new attempt, a Basque way towards self-determination. Even among the latter there are those who claim that, as you say that everything will be done under the current legislation, there is not so much to worry about. A legally agreed phase disconnection. A slow-fire independence, consolidating at every step as much power as possible in political, social and economic institutions. A process where the important thing is not so much to reach the goal, but to advance in the nationalist construction in order to create, as its agreement wants, a separate and distinct space where there is no vestige of Spain, even if it continues to pay the pensions; where the institutions of the State cannot ensure the compliance with the laws or the validity of the Constitution, when it collides against the will of the institutions that control the PNV in Euskadi. A process always subject to the maximum aspiration of its centenary political organization: to take all power and shape society according to the nationalist dogma. Many, in the end, consider that, in view of the Catalan experience, you walk with the beards to soak, in an infinite amago, stalking the occasion when, by weakness or national division, you can take another step towards the independence of Euskadi. Only there are matters, ladies and gentlemen, which we cannot dispose of in this Parliament or in our governments, not even in the General Courts. Because as far as the unity of the Spanish nation and national sovereignty are concerned, the only actor with decision-making capacity is the Spaniards as a whole, without any such right being taken away from them. And I confirm to you that from that constitutional obligation my political force is a cause and a guarantee, and that we feel guaranteed and we are also a cause in defence of a democratic principle that you so often invoke. Because nothing is more important to us than to take care of coexistence among all and to avoid citizen fractures. There is the circumstance, which is also not new, that this political agreement on which the investiture is based has counted with Bildu, and in particular with Mr Otegi, as an observer; an active observer who has been received at the headquarters of both parties during the negotiating process, and whose imprint is also notorious in the programme that you offer us today. Not so much because they let him put the pen in the deal, but because of everything they have tried to please him for further needs. And so, in the diagnosis of the problems of our cohabitation in the Basque Country, they carefully avoid making ETA appear as a terrorist organization, in order to emphasize with repetition the situation of their prisoners, who are serving sentences as a result of their criminal activity. At best, there is talk of ETA violence, but always in a context where there are many other violence and human rights violations. The victims of ETA are emptied in this way of political significance. Because the victims of ETA terrorism acquire their true meaning not because of the suffering they have suffered, which is terrible, no doubt, not because of what they or their families thought, but because of the political objective pursued by ETA when it attacked its life and integrity. And that goal was to achieve the independence of Euskal Herria to impose a totalitarian cutting project. That is what has happened in the Basque Country and what makes our experience different. That, and that there is still a political force with important representation in Euskadi that not only does not condemn the terrorist history of ETA, but seeks to contextualize it to seek legitimation, and that is the same political expression that for decades gave social and political coverage to terrorism. I recognize that you aspire to ETA being dissolved and not to legitimize terrorism or any other form of violence. I know that you are committed to human rights and are active defenders of them. But it should not be forgotten that, if ETA does not kill anymore, it is not because of the sudden will of the terrorists for peace, but because it was defeated by the rule of law, by social mobilization, by a political agreement that was extraordinarily effective, by the work of judges, forertzains, police, civil guards and so many public servants, and by international cooperation. And, indeed, it has been defeated, it was not invincible, and it cannot claim any orderly or negotiated end, nor keep its prisoners subject to its discipline, denying its possibilities of repentance, of collaboration with justice, of recognition of the damage caused and of reintegration. The Basques owe nothing to ETA, and we must not allow through the ambiguity of the words, or an interested deviation of responsibilities, one to think that one wants, as Aitor Esteban asked a few days ago in Congress during the investiture session, to put a silver bridge to ETA for it to dissolve. Hate remains in Euskadi; a subculture of intolerance that is impermeable to the basic norms of democratic coexistence is still in force in our streets, in our peoples. It sometimes comes out, as we have seen in Hernani or Alsasua, and we must face it with determination so that our children can live the Euskadi in freedom for which we have fought so much. So, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a political agreement between the PNV and the Basque Socialist Party in which Bildu has acted as an observer. No wonder. We have already observed that in governments that share PNV and PSE, when they add up to the majority, what the PNV says is done. And when not, as is the case with Álava, then what Bildu says is done, which is the one that gives the majority to approve the rules and budgets. I want to think that here it may be different, in spite of everything, but I want to tell you, Mr Urkullu, that my confidence diminishes as I reread the agreement you have signed. At this point in my speech, I assume you feel that I do not like it, and that we cannot give you our support. We would vote against it if it were allowed in the Rules of Procedure. We recognize his right to form a government and we recognize the legitimacy that the ballot boxes have provided him, but we feel alternate. And yet, we will continue to offer you a will for dialogue. But a dialogue for political stability. A stability that is born not only of the agreements that will be bound before the insufficient majority that represents its coalition of government, but also has to be born of moderation and the search for centrality, which seems to me fundamental in the action of government. From political stability comes economic and social stability, something essential for a society like Basque, which aspires to grow, to activate all its power to be an attractive territory to live, to invest and to offer to all opportunities. The center is the space we seek to find ourselves, the moderation, the territory of respect and the transaction, from fidelity to the idea that each of us defends in this House. But we also want, and we miss, the agreement they have put forward, a little more ambition in the Government's bid. Because in the sovereignist section ambition is certainly overflowing, at least on paper, but in the rest we have found little new thing, much self-congratulation, a succession of unfulfilled plans, and many outstanding duties and unfulfilled promises. Look, you've announced for this legislature (you've announced it as if it were an announcement) nineteen bills, which means another period of legislative drought is coming. Nineteen projects for four years. Of these, seven correspond to projects that had already had to be dealt with in the previous legislature, five amendments or updates to existing laws, and, finally, I suppose the others are the legislative novelty that they bring and present this morning in the House. They also forget other commitments that have been pending for a long time, such as the contribution law. Let us then say that the rest is novelty, but I will give you a data so that you have a reference: in Galicia, at the same time as the last legislature, which coincided on the same dates, fifty-five laws were passed. I will give you an appointment that will surely worry you, of an authority that you recognize, of Enrique Lucas, whom I also hope you will appreciate. And it says: "The calculation of the number of laws passed each year is a usual index to evaluate government management, so that when no bills are presented, or their content is devoid of political or social relevance, it is concluded that the Government does not fulfil its mission." End of date. That the Government does not carry out its mission. Very strong. You try this legislature not to have to pretend to be alluded to by this appointment. But it's not just in the laws. The investments they have committed for a long time should be made, of how much they have been promised. And I don't want to stop at each of them, but people are waiting for them... on some occasion they are more than ten years old, the concrete promises you set in their time. The same goes for plans: a lot of continuity, and little novelty; a lot of literature, but little concreteness. I believe that you have to apply something more than the previous mandate, Mr Urkullu. And I assure you, and I tell you sincerely, that if you are serious about the well-being of the Basques we will be willing to tie your shoulder. But, contrary to what you want to make believe in the pact that you have brought us here today, the Euskadi problem is not in the political structure of the state, nor will it be resolved by breaking down the statutory system, which is the area in which you have shown the most emphasis in the document that you have subscribed to. Euskadi's problem is that the Basque population is now the same as it was thirty-five years ago, only older. Euskadi's problem is that the birth rate is 1.5 times lower than the European one, and the replacement rate is negative (that more people die than those born). Euskadi's problem is not in the letterhead with which the pension is notified to its recipients, but in that the deficit is already 2,271 million and the contributions cover only 72 % of the benefits (in the whole of the national territory this coverage is 80 %). The problem with Euskadi is that the pension deficit announces the difficulty of addressing the cost of social services and health in the immediate future. The problem in the Basque Country is that the collection is five points below what was supposed to be a year ago. The problem of Basque society is that exports have fallen by 1% over the course of the year, in a context of national export growth. In short, the problem that Euskadi has is more of a door inside. Our challenge is to improve the management of our autonomy, which is comparatively not highlighted in the last thirty-five years and which, on the contrary, reveals important gaps for which you have not yet given an explanation, despite the opportunities offered by the autonomous regime with more competences in Europe. Contrary to what you seek to make believe, the problem of Euskadi is not its relationship with Spain. The problem to be solved in this land is that, as you yourself applauded when former Councillor Pedro Luis Uriarte presented his report, the Basque Country has gone from representing 7.5% of Spanish GDP, to representing only 6%, from 1981 until now. And all this is not solved by blaming others, especially when we are living up to the momentum that the reforms and economic policy promoted by the Spanish Government, which have made our country today the fastest growing euro area, have brought about for economic and employment recovery. It is certainly important for the Basques that this momentum be maintained, and it is in the interest of your Government, Mr Urkullu, to contribute to that. Euskadi has the conditions to lead growth, innovation and social development throughout Spain, to be an attractive place for talent and to gain economic weight. We are aware that this is an effort – you asked for it – that needs to be shared, and that you need to settle on a culture of concertation, which in our land goes through low hours. That is why we are not going to spare the support for how many effective measures are to make Euskadi a more competitive and open place, but you have to change, to really recover the productive investment that has been abandoned in recent years, to undo the cuts to the family, to trust the recovery of employment to private initiative, not to public sector retirements. Our project aims to regain the leadership of the citizens' initiative, to resolutely promote people's actions, to remove barriers, to create the conditions necessary for them to develop their life projects. We have left behind a legislature that has been signified by the absence of quiet reforms, and also by the doorway to important debates that are on the street, in a strategy that questions the credibility not only of the political class, but also that of this same institution as a reference to solve the problems of the Basques. We cannot afford a parliament that is far from the citizens, entangled in political debates for politicians. You said politics versus politics. Policy versus politics is also that we can talk here about GIR without censorship, that we can talk here about what people are talking about on the street, that they can move their initiatives and that, therefore, there can be a real participation of the Basques as a whole in the political decision! I pledge to bring to this institution the debates that are on the street, those that are truly worrying. We have already begun to put forward proposals and reforms in different areas, and my obligation, and I know that, and that of my group, is to act constructively, responsibly and critically, but to espouse the action of a government that falls asleep in the dream of the power it occupies in all Basque institutions. We will do so from the conviction that Euskadi needs to regain leadership, Euskadi needs ambition to generate a productive fabric capable of retaining and attracting talent in one of the oldest societies in Europe. Economic dynamism is the indispensable premise for a decisive response to the social challenges ahead. You spoke in terms that are grateful to my political formation when you say that job creation is the best social policy, and that economic growth is the basis of any possible social policy. Our problems are there: negative population growth; an increasingly long life expectancy (which is not a problem, but it translates into new socio-health demands that need to be able to meet); an increasingly small working population, which has to cover a deficit system in Euskadi; the flight of many of our young people to other places that are more attractive professionally, or an immigration that has difficulties for their social and labour integration. Some of you recognized them in your diagnosis; therefore, determined action is needed to address these issues. These matters have to be promoted urgently, courageously, without wanting to look elsewhere, and without being involved either in the vice of the last legislature, in which you felt much more comfortable, and it was the custom in this Parliament, in the debates where the management of the Spanish Government was talked about and criticized than in the obligation to be accountable for its own management. I don't think you can repeat that either. This Parliament is to control the Government, and the Government is to hold this Parliament accountable. And it's very nice to hide in the parapet of "I'm going to criticize the outsider and blame him for all my inability to carry on my government projects." He said there are some important debates that need to come here. Income guarantee income has been talked about: there is a cry for reaching out to people who really need it and eliminating situations of abuse and fraud, and ensuring the sustainability of the model. You know – everyone knows it, and everyone recognizes it – that Lanbide has failed, not only in this respect, but also as a Basque placement service, which is responsible for the work intermediation in Euskadi, and that the intermediation rate it has achieved (just over 3%) is well below the target set by the Basque Government itself. We must therefore undertake a comprehensive reflection that sets out the objective of turning back the structural problems of our society, with decisive measures that openly encourage birth and support for the family, or that bet on a social policy that, beyond its welfare function, strongly promotes socio-occupational integration. Ladies and gentlemen, since the PP we are convinced that only by adding Euskadi and the whole of Basque society will we find a stable and lasting path of progress. It is within Spain and Europe that the Basque Country is doing better, being part of a strong country that generates stability and confidence. Our project is committed to an open society, in which Basques naturally live their identity, without having to choose between being Basque or Spanish. An option that runs counter to a model of sovereignist construction that, in our view, would lead to economic and social regression, and that would generate impoverishment and a step backwards in our coexistence. This sovereignist view of the Catalan woman, of whom she says she is envious, incarnated her this morning in the rostrum Mrs Iriarte, who, by the way, has generously applauded her intervention, which she seems to have liked very much, which I do not know if it is advance of greater approximations in this House. I cannot be further from the thinking of EH Bildu or Mrs Iriarte; however, I also did not want to stop starting my reference to you without saying something positive. I sincerely liked the importance he has attached in his intervention (and that he started it like this) to policies of equality between women and men, the denunciation he has made of the minority situation they suffer in a society like ours, which is said to be advanced. I strongly agree that violence against women is the result of a fundamental inequality, which continues to be felt among our adolescents and which has to be a real priority for us. We'll be there. And I am also with you in that the twenty-first century must definitely be the time of women and their real promotion. So far the coincidences. From there I find it painful to have to tell you that I haven't found any. I cannot accept that Mr Otegi is presented as a reference to the victims of injustice, who, if he is not in these seats, is convicted of being part of a terrorist organization. What an injustice, Mrs. Iriarte! The truly unfair thing is that Mr Otegi continues to refuse to condemn ETA and actively promote its legitimacy. Moreover, Mrs Iriarte, your speech has been – it will allow me, it does not feel offended, but it is the qualifications that one thinks of, trying to soften the discourse – populist, demagogue and unrealistic: energy autarchy, I suppose putting plates on the roofs, energy autarchy; fiscal utopia, because you find money for everything; public employment for all, subsidized salaries, and even food sovereignty to end obesity, because it must be that our products do not get fat, whatever one eats. You create an imaginary, that... Then there are things that I have not understood, but you will explain them to me more slowly, such as this of de-encrypting the EITB or de-encrypting this House. I hope that we will not be affected by such a project, but you will understand that we are somewhat under pressure and will not be able to support it. You will understand that I am not going to support you today, nor does it seem that I can support you in the foreseeable future. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the way it is, and that's what... the risks we see, the games you're playing, the possibilities that open up here, and the route that sets that role, that some believe it and some don't. It must be like the Padrón peppers: some say yes and others say no. The last legislature was nothing, this one I don't know. I just want to say one thing: you have an alternative, and you and your partner and the coalition that you represent..., you don't have a majority, but you have an alternative of moderation, of stability, and that is represented by the People's Party. And if you go that way you can count on our spirit of collaboration and encounter, but do not think that you can use either the votes of this group, or our position, or our political discourse, only for what the Bildu group does not want to bring forward. Do not think that we will be able to sustain a government that also leans towards a path of sovereignty that can break the coexistence of the Basques, because we are in this House the only alternative to the nationalist project in the Basque Country, and we want to be it with the hand stretched out for dialogue. I have been saying this since I was appointed; I have been holding my hand and being bitten since I was appointed president of the People's Party in the Basque Country. And I hope that I will not be bitten today in this debate in the Basque Parliament too. But we will continue to do so, as long as we can defend our frameworks of reference, our frameworks of coexistence, and as long as you do not seek the majority in the most radical force, as you have done in Vitoria and Alava and always do that you need. Let's see if this real legislature, ladies and gentlemen, takes a qualitative leap over the previous stage, with ambition, to regain leadership, so that it is true all that it says – it is true that it says it as a delegated councillor; that I do not want to disrespect it, but it says it in a tone...– of the principle of responsibility, of the principle of realism, of compliance with the principle of legality. If your government follows those priorities of moderation and stability, know that the People's Party will always be supporting all those projects that are positive and truly serve to improve the lives of the Basques. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u9	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Next up, the Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u10	Mr. Alonso, the truth is that with your trembling you have done us a favor, because surely in the rostrums, if there was any sleep, they will have sprung it. But we come to the political arena, and today we come to this plenary to decide whether either of the two candidates deserves the confidence of this House to be lehendakari. It is not a process of leadership investiture of the opposition; it is an investiture process for anyone who wants to lead this country in the next four years. And the Basque Socialists came to this session after having worked with the PNV on the lines that this country should pursue in the next four years, and we are proud of the work done. We have agreed to a proposal for the future, a proposal which meets face to face with the challenges which it has from the Basques. No one here abandons himself for feeling more patriotic or less so. This is a proposition for the different Basques who demand great deals, a proposition which guarantees social rights and legalties. We open a new time for the interview, and we want to unite all those who agree on these purposes. Mr. Urkullu was the only one who offered us a national proposal for socialiston. There have been statements, yes, of course, but there's been no further worked proposal. It's true that EH Collect sent us his attitude a few days ago, but they had already decided to run their nominations. An occasional candidacy, and I do not say so, is said by the abertzale left itself who has recognized it. They would not have made use of this rostrum this morning if the Socialists had not reached an agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party. If the Basque Nationalist Party had chosen to rule alone, EH Bildu would give up this role which today is granted by the Rules of this House. So I will talk about the only possibility of governability that is really on the table for this session today; the one that we have woven between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party with much dialogue, with many difficulties and with a shared will to look for what could unite two very different parties. Because it's been seven very intense weeks. Against what had been said, nothing was written beforehand. Nothing. We all came with our hands absolutely free to make any decision. And while others were staging sequences of apparent dialogue from which there was not a single agreement, the Socialists have agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party on a basis that will allow the country to be straightened out and put it, above all, looking at all the challenges of the future. Because we have not concluded an agreement on how to go through these four years, but on how to build on the pending transformation of Euskadi so that those who continue to rely on public health and education, a social protection that does not abandon anyone, an economy that generates quality jobs and opportunities for those who do not have them today, tools of self-government that make that possible, and ethical bases on which to build coexistence. We believe that in the last parliamentary term we laid the groundwork for this agreement to be possible today. Socialists have worked very hard over the past four years to ensure that at least irreversible steps are not taken in our public service system. We worked intensively with the Government party in some matters, with the rest of the opposition in others, to further expand those rights, to alleviate damages that came from decisions beyond our control, but we considered, and so we have been heard repeatedly in this rostrum and outside it, that we must also start making strategic decisions, that we must think of the next generations. The result probably does not fully satisfy either party, but what is presented in this session is an agreement. But we also have a principle of reality: our proposals would not go forward with only nine seats of seventy-five. It has been pointed out these days that this agreement is insufficient because it does not add up to the absolute majority of this House. I think that's enough. I believe it because the story of Euskadi supports it. They were minority governments in the first two legislatures that led the lehendakari Garaikoetxea during the first six years. They were minority governments, despite joining a coalition of three parties, the three that led the lehendakari Ibarretxe for ten more years. They were minority governments, although with external support for certain policies, both the first of the Lehendakari Ardanza and the first of the Lehendakari Patxi López. With all these precedents, we will say that most of the democratic history of this country has been led by governments that in their composition did not guarantee the thirty-eight seats. Moreover, there came to be a coalition government with an absolute majority, Ardanza's second, which broke by nine months. Therefore, the problem is not that this is a pact that some of you are committed to calling lame. The question is whether we are able to work with the confidence and support of the rest of the House's groups to work out areas of agreement, but also whether the groups are working to bring ideas and add together efforts to achieve shared goals. Because that's what parliamentaryism is about. It is curious that some speak of weakness on numerical issues. The same people who make this accusation share with us the denunciation of the abuse of the absolute majority that the Spanish Government has made in the last five years, reaching the contempt of any initiative of the political rival. So lose your fear, ladies and gentlemen: there is no risk of roller here. What is at risk, on the other hand, is that there are proposals for mere blockage. Because there may be coincidences from the opposition, on a point of time between three forces so disparate, but I am convinced that you yourselves, after this debate and from the legitimacy of your initiatives, will try to use your respective forces in what is really of interest to the citizens, not in what it gives you in the next elections. Of course, the socialists defend the need to dialogue with the rest always, and for us are great country challenges the improvement of self-government and coexistence, yes, but there are immense challenges the employment, the full incorporation of women into the economy, the strengthening of public services, the new attention required by the ageing of our society, the very rapid adaptation to the industrial revolution 4.0, which we already have, the preparation of our young people, the extension of the right to housing, the measures against climate change. All these are pieces of the same puzzle that form a common country project in which we all, nationalists and non-nationalists. We must all start from our reality, from which we represent the seats we count on, and also from which we do not count. From that reality it is how we must act Government and opposition, from the reality that no one can approach those policies with our own ideas, no matter how good they look to us or how they still look to us. And that is the basis on which we have worked out the agreement that will allow us to give our confidence to the candidate proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party, because it is a working trust. It is well known that, despite having agreed on a number of policies in the past legislature, my group expressed doubts about the management of the previous Government. On this occasion, together with these weeks of intense work, the Socialists took on the added commitment to share the responsibilities of government. That requires a further effort of loyalty on the part of both groups, but it is also a further guarantee that the project defended this morning by Mr Urkullu will be carried out. That is why we are going to offer you that confidence, because by giving it to you the Basque Socialists we are going to respond to the commitment made to the citizens when we run for election. Everything we brought to the polls last September 25 is still in effect this November 23. Sharing these projects, providing a stronger basis for carrying them forward, and remaining open to expanding agreements in this House with proposals from other groups is a good starting point. The port of arrival, in four years' time, must be a much more modern, more competitive country, fully immersed in the twenty-first century, and with citizens protected from the principles of equality, solidarity and social justice. Our vote today, and tomorrow, is therefore a vote consistent with what the Socialists committed to during the election campaign. Because our commitment and loyalty is with the citizens. The Basques and Basques were told that there was nothing more urgent than to recover the economy and lay the groundwork for creating quality jobs, and the first objective we have set ourselves, the first political action, the first term we set ourselves for this legislature, is to design and promote a new employment plan. But not only is it a question of recovering the economy on the basis of figures. It is about recovering those who have suffered most during the crisis, workers and women workers and those living in the regions most affected by the closure of businesses. To them and they are directed this agreement, to give them answer during the legislature with plans for the Left Margin, the mining area, Oarsoaldea or the Alavesa Mountain, thinking also about those people who live in Zumarraga, the Ayala Valley or Encartaciones. The agreement is also addressed to those who have entrepreneurship and commitment to the country, because they are essential in this recovery process. And it is addressed to all workers, because there are proposals that not only set challenges to reduce the unemployment rate, but to promote quality employment, to do so from the social dialogue, to increase inspection and avoid job risks, and to prevent recruitment fraud. To extend social clauses in public procurement. This is a pact to use up to the last of our powers to transform the economy, to recover social rights and to fully incorporate women into economic activity. Because for us this was an outstanding issue, that of women on the basis of real equality. In the road map that we have marked for this legislature, women cease to be in a separate chapter, in the chapter on social protection. Today there is, as it cannot be otherwise, an express and recognized commitment to the comprehensive fight against gender-based violence, but in this agreement the full participation of women in all social spheres, beginning with economics, becomes a principle that passes through all other policies. Their current situation, their worst working conditions, the huge wage gap, are the cause of their particular social vulnerability, and instead of looking for only patches, we want to act from the bottom, from the cause of their situation. In addition to justice, we have decided to tap into this new economic momentum all that human capital, all that potential, and to do so will force us to address other policies in the social and conciliation fields, which become a question of all and no longer a question of ourselves alone. So that the recovery of the economy may become human recovery, we will do an indirect work. And we'll promote formation. This is an agreement that we want to end with division of education, so that intelligence may be the main axis that lasts from childhood to the end of life. This is to recover the leadership of our economy and to restore the 21st. the road to the century train. The new industry next year is more than getting in modern production tools. It'll take effect on jobs for today and for the future. Those who work, and those who will be in a few years, need an integral strategy to improve their intelligence. And thus we proceed in the law of the next profession. In this pending transformation we also intend to regain the momentum of the commitment decided by research and innovation. In the worst situation in the public coffers, the socialists were convinced that increasing this investment was an essential countercyclical policy to tackle a better exit from the crisis. In the last parliamentary term, the Socialists promoted a great pact in this House with a large majority of the groups, in order to increase the budget in this area every year. That compact is now being armored as a commitment of the future Government. We understand that the groups that then shared the objectives that we Socialists now set will also continue to defend that bet. To create innovative and quality jobs, yes, and to offer opportunities to those close to 60,000 people who have been looking for work for more than two years and who do not find it, to those who begin to lose hope, to whom income-guarantee income relieves in their day-to-day but only as a patch, to those who feel condemned to rely on these aids now and when they begin to access retirement. This agreement is also addressed to them and to them. We bet to train them intensely, offer them a professional personal itinerary, accompany them in the search for a job that allows them a salary with which to maintain their lives. Socialists believe it is a goal that helps them not only to get out of dependence, but to regain their place in society. We have an instrument to do this, which is Lanbide, and we take as a government commitment what we agreed two years ago: reform Lanbide, make it useful, and do it with social and economic actors. Because the goal of our social protection is that fewer and fewer people are in need of income-guarantee income. And there is also a need for a reform of the system, but a reform to meet the new social realities that have been presented and that for various reasons are being excluded. On this, too, we had a shared basis for all the groups in this House, except those who committed themselves to punctuating the debate. There was already a majority here – and I hope it will remain as broad as it was before – that we defend our model of protection, that we defend that income guarantee income must come to everyone who needs it in order to draw lots of life and not to condemn himself for life, and that we reject any kind of fraud. Let no one remain a euro of the citizens who do not belong to him, but let no one who belongs to him be left without help. That's going to be the proposal to share. We are also working a majority of this House to make the housing law more ambitious in Spain. The immense effort he made had as a reward a text that, beyond the several hundred families who had accessed a home they did not have at that time, must have a medium-term tour. Having overcome the mistrusts, the future government will develop that subjective right in the terms in which we adopted it here just half a year ago, without cuts, without establishing more requirements than are required for other aid. I think it is another of those policies in which we are going to find an even broader majority than the one that passed the law at the time. Let us also raise to government commitment what the Socialists had achieved as a budgetary commitment: to prevent, with the instruments we have in our hand, that no one in this country will be left without water, electricity or gas because they cannot pay the bills. In this year there are 1,300 families who have been cared for thanks to the departure that the Socialists introduced in the budgets, but we are talking about an issue that goes beyond aid. Vulnerable consumers must be protected. And in this task there are issues that are beyond our competence, but there are others in which we can intervene. I also believe that it is a widely shared concern in this House and in which I am sure we will find ourselves. I hope we all do it with our feet on the ground, because just putting our feet on the ground that thousand families have had an answer. The great political sufflamas would not have solved their problems. There are themes that are out of our hands to ensure the tension of energy, but we have shown that we are able to define a standard of our own for use. This government admits that Eukadi is a land without fracing without any condition. We said it would be the first year the Socialists left from 2016 Euskka to the fracing. Now we know it will be the first of all those coming. And now, yes, it's a negative alternative. We'll make a strong bet for the retractable source of energy. In 2020, we are engaged to bring 20% of the alternative sources of consumption. This will produce jobs in a permanent building, in a housing issue, in a permanent movable area, in a sector called green employment. And all this within an integral strategy of dealing with climate change, because permanence can't be excluded from public policies. Public policies that are possible thanks to tens of thousands of employees who provide their services to citizens. They are Andreeños, teachers, doctors, nurses..., they are ertzainas, they are those who care for those who require social assistance, those who seek guidance for employment... They are also directed towards this agreement, which commits the Government to the consolidation of these posts and to plans to reduce interinity and generational turnover. Because it is they and they who are going to make possible the public guarantee of the right to health, the public guarantee to an education that seeks excellence and equity, and therefore we want to involve them in the management of these services, so that they can better care for their patients, so that they have support with schoolchildren who have difficulties. Because the public, in these great pillars of our welfare system, is expressly endorsed in the road map to be followed by the Government, and is endorsed because there is a premise in the management of budgets: the Socialists will not promise what we are not in a position to guarantee, but at the same time budgetary rigour will not put our public services or the economic momentum at risk. It is also an agreement adopted in a monographic debate two years ago, and we also raised it to government commitment. We are going to strengthen the fight against tax fraud alongside the parliaments, and this House will be the one to debate and approve any modification of the criteria that allow for a homogeneous tax policy, that deepens progressivity and equity, and that allows us to obtain more resources to continue making our social model viable and economic momentum without further harming families. I have mentioned issues in which the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi have maintained differences, some more sonorous than others, throughout the past legislature; issues in which the Socialists have been able to seek consensus at that time with other opposition groups; issues that we have now incorporated as lines of action of the Government and we should continue to work with the opposition. It won't be a problem for us. On the contrary. We have shown that we are a suitable channel for transforming proposals into real policies that citizens feel. And we are also aware that Basques and Basques broadly agree on the need to update our self-government. It is not one of its emergencies, it is not, but the socialists understand self-government as the framework that will enable us to make all the policies that we have marked, those that are urgent to the citizens: employment, economic revival and social rights. And we share without complexes with the nationalists that there are possibilities to improve those tools, as we share that the experience of these thirty-seven years with the Statute of Gernika has been a success, a fundamental engine for Euskadi's progress. Or as we share that this progress is undermined by the systematic blockade that the last Government of Spain has carried out in the face of every initiative that has been promoted in the exercise of our competences: the blockade to the Basque Socialist Government that intended to offer an alternative to the repose, which we have then managed to compensate; the attempt to block the expansion of the right to housing, or the limitation of fracking, or to complete the staff of the Ertzaintza, or to repair those who have suffered, victims of police abuse. We do the same Diagnosis, but we don't agree with nationalist solutions. And we will continue this way, because the renewal of our government cannot be the work of a single government, even if it had an absolute majority. The renewal of the state must be the work of all of us who sit in this Chamber, of all of us who are responsible for the daily problem of the people, and we need to know what we are here can do. We've got it all figured out. We want a solution to self-engineer, not create new problems. That is why we have agreed to continue the work begun in the last parliamentary term. There is a new formation that must also make its contributions; those of others we already know. Ours has been deposited since January this year in the Register of this House, and the Socialists have reproduced it in our electoral programme. We want to strengthen our social rights to make self-government a more useful tool for citizens. That requires establishing secure channels for action, so that our political action is not permanently paralysed by resources from any other body. We recognize the different ways of feeling Basque that we all have, and we understand that this should also be reflected in that update. And the result of the work must be the result of a broad consensus between different and respecting the legally established procedures. Thus it was in 1936, and the result, within the limitations of the Civil War and exile, was successful, of collaboration between different. This was the case in 1979, and the result has been Euskadi's most advanced stage. And so it must be in what we are able to agree on. Consensus and work, and respect for the legally established procedures, is the method that we propose to address that outstanding task in which we commit ourselves, it is the agreement that gave rise to the presentation in the last legislature, and from there all the groups will be able to talk about everything. The Socialists will continue to propose a constitutional reform. We think we'd have a lot more room for self-government. But, as we already left written in January, we started, we agreed to start with the limits that we must all recognize beforehand. For what we have no external limits is also to deal with another unfinished task, that of reforming our self-government inwards, improving the organization of all institutional levels, with the sole aim of being more effective in solving the problems of Basque citizens. And we also believe that the policies of building coexistence must be shared by all groups. And we know that there is a great majority who consider that there is a previous and indispensable step, which is the dissolution of ETA. From that demand, which we made in the past and which we maintain today, the Socialists have made a special effort in recent times, in government and in opposition, to join forces. It seems to us a mistake that this rostrum is the continuous display of differences, which we already know when we are dealing with something so sensitive. We have started this plenary session with two minutes of silence, remembering a parliamentarian whom they murdered for defending ideas. We all share that Santi Brouard should not have been murdered, that there was no political or State reason that could justify that crime. We should be able to say this out loud on every anniversary of every murder. We must say this in every kidnapping, every threat, every violation of rights that has caused ETA, or, with the excuse of the existence of ETA, by the LAG, by the Spanish Basque Battalion, by the Triple A, or by the ATE. Or for every police abuse or torture. Equal victims in suffering, but different in their causes, but all equally unjust. If we all share it, we can start building coexistence. If we all assume that reality of the past, we can begin to build a better future. That is what the Socialists proposed when we signed the agreement by which we will give our confidence to Mr Urkullu. We have set out to start raising our eyes, looking to the future, and to start straightening the country on solid foundations, incorporating parliamentary agreements as government commitments, looking at every piece of the agreement to the citizens of this country: women, workers, young people, the elderly, grandparents, grandchildren, those seeking employment. And we do it without complexes, wetting ourselves, offering social rights, consensus and legality, because it's what we've always done, it's the best we've ever done, and it's when it's the best it's ever been to the Basques. The Socialists had assured the citizens that every vote of theirs, every seat they gave us, would turn to offer them answers and not give them problems. We are committed to providing stability and certainty. We pledge to build trust with others, with those who think differently, to build a country together, so that the plurality that we live in our streets and in our peoples will also reflect on the policies that emerge from this House. That is what we have done, and we have no pain in recognizing it here today, in this House. He always deals with someone who thinks differently, not someone who thinks the same as you. And in this country, from people so different in feelings and ideas, Basques and Basques need great agreements. Neither the PNV has become socialist, nor the Socialist Party of Euskadi has become nationalist. PSE and PNV have committed to solutions for citizens, nationalists and non-nationalists, and we will meet with other groups, nationalists and non-nationalists, who want to share with us that search for answers. We are starting a new stage with the same objective: to ensure that different citizens, who feel Basque and Basque in a different way, have equally guaranteed the right to have a decent life project, anywhere in this shared community that is Basque. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Next to them the representatives of the Podemos, the ladies, and the lords of Hernandez, shall have their word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u12	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. We said this week that the bad deal between EAJ and PSE was planned. In the event, it was reality before the campaign, because the agreement they have in councils and farms was planned to spread into the Eucommy. An arrangement in which an apparent patriotism is married with a patriotic party. An arrangement in which a left-hand side of the name is dissolved in a consistent policy of power. An agreement in which all these impossibles are made possible, so that other possibilities (a progressive majority) are impossible. This marriage of Covenant has but one end: in exchange for a few posts, EAJk PSE, the second to live four years longer. It was a round roll from EAJ. Good for you, congratulations! It doesn't matter if the majority which is necessary does not succeed, the alternative majority might be progressive in that move. This tactic, which might have been expected on some of the old political parties, would not be remarkable if it were not for the conditions of the agreement. It's rather like a contract of surrender than an agreement of the Socialist Party. The things that are not said are better understood than those which are said in agreement. The missing people are much better reflected than those who are absent. These long 70 silent folios are not capable of concealing enormous absences. And if you will allow me, I shall now begin to speak of the views of our coalition in this law. Today is our first investiture debate, the first of the debates we are going to have in this and the following days. Some experts said that we would never arrive, said Basque politics was not our business; that Euskadi was alien to what we said, defended and proposed. Today it is evident that they were wrong, not only because we are here, but because we are with considerable strength. We have come to this Parliament to talk about Euskadi and to put on the table different models of society, and, as we have seen, also different ways of doing politics. And in this three-way game, where you didn't know who was negotiating what, with who or why, citizenship has become like a stone guest. Their needs, their emergencies, their longings, have gone into the background again. Once again, the most important thing, people, people, are the exiles of politics. And that is precisely why I want to talk about all those that are missing, that we are missing in that agreement. The ones that we lack because we have no jobs, over forty-five years old, long-term stops, and we want concrete action and not good words. The young women we left Euskadi because we didn't find a job, the ones some encouraged to leave. The ones we lack because we have a precarious job, because, despite having a job, we are still at risk of poverty. The ones we missed because we didn't get to the end of the month, or we didn't even get to the beginning. Those killed by cold, poverty, poverty and precariousness. It is necessary to take measures so that we do not remain the last, the forgotten, the ones we have no voice or even to defend ourselves. Those who perceive RGI and criminalize us; all those who Lanbide loses our file, or ask us for abusive documentation that violates our right to privacy (they talk about reforming Lanbide, obviating this cruel urgency). The ones that we didn't even charge the RGI, because Patxi López and his reform left us out, in addition to the sadly famous 7 % cut of which there is no trace in this government agreement. Those who are users of social services for a variety of reasons and we are stunned from window to window without explaining anything. The women we can't reconcile, the women we charge less or we have worse jobs, the women we come home with fear at night. When we go out on the street we want to be free and not brave, and we are outraged by budget cuts and freezes in the fight against macho violence. Immigrants who see ourselves criminalized and stigmatized, and use us as a currency of change by drawing political revenue from racism, in a more direct or covert way, depending on the touch. Immigrants who are the object of hate crimes (we don't just want campaigns, we want a rule against hate crimes). The LGBTQ people, who do not see our realities reflected in their family policies and who continue to suffer discrimination in the streets, in schools and at work, also aggressions. Small business owners, when the institutions governed by you give licenses everywhere for the establishment of malls and then forget about the working conditions of the majority of young people working there. Workers who operate in public procurement works and services, subcontracts, contractors with the Administration, when they have companies in tax havens. This social clause regulating Law 3/2016 is a toast to the sun, as it only says that the Administration "will be able to introduce social clauses". That 41% of Basques believe that there is corruption in Euskadi, that vast majority believe that there are customer networks and that it is scandalized by the rotating doors. People who practice as teachers and Osakidetza workers in precarious conditions (for them there is no answer in their pact either). For not commenting on your proposal for simplification of the public sector (I don't know why, but it sounds like outsourcing of services). Patient people on waiting list, when they talk about continuing to maintain current standards. Pupils and students who are in public schools with lack of maintenance or overcrowding, and we still do not read specific dates in their commitments. University students who see our rates go up year after year. Or that educational community that attends scared to a lehendakari who talks about private university on equal terms with the public. The victims of other violence, which for a period of time we did not even enter into the July law and that we have found a very unambitious government agreement on this. The victims of torture, that we are beginning an incipient path and that we find a government agreement without references or concreteness on the work carried out in this field. In addition to those that we lack, as we have been saying, it is important to remember that it is up to us to face very serious challenges; challenges that are also missing in the above-mentioned government agreement. It is not necessary to see the situation in other places to know that Euskadi, with its strengths and weaknesses, has decisive challenges ahead. First of all, social challenges. Euskadi today is more unequal than four years ago. It is not a partisan or subjective issue: this is what all studies point to and is perceived by the citizenry. Young people, but also older than fifty-five years, especially those who work, those who work or work in strategic sectors such as industry, feel at first sight that in Euskadi today there are fewer opportunities than a decade ago. And this is not solved by comparing it with other territories or countries: we will have to solve it ourselves and ourselves with our resources, which are not few. This must be Lehendakari's first priority when it is invested tomorrow. Besides, as representatives of Basque citizens, we have a duty to defend the achievements of civil society, which, as in the GIR, have suffered cuts and still present five years later serious management problems. Problems arising from the decisions of the last two Governments. Mr Urkullu, are we going to agree to change the management of GIR, to equip it with resources and its own office and to make it more efficient? Are you prepared to start your second term by reversing the 7 % cut that your predecessor made and undoing the administrative misdemeanours that led to the transfer to Lanbide of the management of the GIR? We may be in the opposition this legislature, but we will always be very close to the people; to the people who are missing in this agreement, to know what is asking of us, and very close to you to remind them. Many people fought for RGI, and many more need it today than ever before to keep moving forward and build an opportunity. Believe me if I tell him they're looking at us. It is essential to look also at those who suffer unemployment, those who are insecure. And looking at them means working responsibly. Do you really think that saying that unemployment is going to fall by 3%, and not saying how, makes us calm? Do you really believe that those who look at the end of their pockets with despair and go every day to a job service that you would not send to your sons and daughters can swallow the empty promise that by magic your agreement will make companies want to hire more people? On the other hand, that unemployment fall they promise, is it at the expense of anything? The unemployment rate is also low with precarious semi-slavery jobs. Is that what they promise us? We believe that in order to transform the labour market, in addition to reducing unemployment, we must bet on another more sustainable model, more worthy, and one that does not leave us behind, that does not sell us fairy tales. Our young people are also not going back to the siren song of that announced youth employment plan. What about institutional coordination? It doesn't exist, and if it does, I don't think it's very good. I know firsthand. It's hard to do, I know, but I'd like to believe them. Bring you concrete, because citizens no longer accept blank cheques. He's learned they're wet paper. We deserve firm and concrete commitments. And having arrived at this point, it would be interesting to give an answer to this question: what sort of society do we want? In legal matters, we'll give an answer to all the meetings and commissions we have left. This daily work is important, but we want to go beyond it. We assert that in the Eukadin and its legislature the deputy of equality is necessary. Like others, society has a problem of structure in the pursuit of machista violence. According to the gift, a thousand women daily suffer violence. The gulch of the genus has economic, social, cultural reasons. And until we're gone, we need all the active policies of everything to ease the abyss, but above all, in employment, education, and social intercourse. The existence of children for most of the euphoric women is fatal to our professional careers. We have to form a specific commission agreed on by all the feminists of Euscarian organizations. Besides seeking improvements in the legislative itself, it ought to be a controversie to listen and direct to the proposals of the institutions. Without equality, no benefices. If there is no real equality between women and men, democracy has a festival, a real democracy. The model of society I defend, as an independent woman and as a parliamentarian of Elkarrekin Podemos, also has to do with the health of our institutions. Some elected members of the previous Basque Parliament say that the institutions in Euskadi are under the test of bad practice. There is no doubt that they are better than in Madrid, but neither does that have much merit. In this regard, we have recently negotiated a standard of transparency at the General Councils of Araba, and we must continue to take steps, more steps and more progress. Mr Urkullu, it is not a question of asking permission to go to the private company, but that some things we see in the day to day are simply intolerable. The majority of Basque citizens think that there is patronage in Euskadi, that is, that some people have more opportunities than others depending on their party affiliation. Clientism is also a source of inequality, let us never forget it. We are talking not only about institutional health, but also about situations of inequality of opportunity, which are well known to the majority of citizens. Are we going to seriously address the case of revolving doors in this legislature? Transparency and institutional regeneration are country issues, and we should avoid turning them into partisan confrontation: neither to breastfeed, nor to avoid uncomfortable questions; simply, responsibility. I myself will not be here forever; I will resume my professional activity. And there's nothing more reasonable and healthy than the people we're engaged in politics to come from different places, and then we'll go to the places that suit us, or those that we can go to. It is simply a question of preventing these places from being boards of management of large companies, Basques or not. It is as simple as fighting for the separation between political and economic power, and ensuring that the later life of those in public office does not go by doing or returning favors. An important part of the well-being of our society is played in this area, which, I insist, has very important social and economic consequences for all citizens. Four years ago, you, Mr Urkullu, defended a national emergency government with eight councils. The situation was serious on many fronts. Four years later, health and education remain among the main problems facing citizens. For us, and certainly for all the parliamentarians here, health is a right, it is an individual human right and it is a collective right, which collaborates in the elimination of inequalities and in the social cohesion of our community. When a user goes to a cashier in Kutxabank, before you put your card on the advertising screen of a powerful private health insurance. It is logical: this bank offers this insurance to its employees in all three territories. If you work at the Bilbao City Council, as a fixed or interim, you will be offered private health insurance. A mixed health system, and more fragmented than desired, is the situation in our country. Levels of inequality in health are particularly alarming, being dangerous to the social cohesion of the country. Unknown situation in recent years, with a worrying tendency to consolidate this inequality rather than correct it. Undoubtedly, properly and efficiently organizing Osakidetza is fundamental to correcting these inequalities. We know that they are the social determinants of health, and essentially poverty, who are responsible for inequalities. But a strong, well-funded, well-dimensioned health service in terms of its resources, and well-organized, is part of the determinants mentioned. We know that Osakidetza has the highest per capita financing of all the autonomous communities of the state; however, we consider it necessary to grow by at least 1% of GDP in its financing throughout this legislature; to resize the staff of Osakidetza according to the beginning of the crisis, taking into account that we have lost between 3,000 and 5,000 workers of all categories in the last eight years. If there is more wealth in our country (3% GDP growth last year and almost another 3% this year), it must be redistributed more and better. The priorities are social policies. Countries in our environment that have well-funded social policies have better resisted the crisis. The current social, economic and demographic situation in Euskadi indicates that there will be more vulnerable people, older people, living longer at times in precarious conditions, in need of greater professional and health care and also with greater social protection needs. We therefore propose a government pact in defence of Basque public health, and we want you, Mr Urkullu, to make a public commitment. As you can see, we are here to talk about Euskadi and his agreements, and to put different models of society and politics on the table. The election results cast an unprecedented parliamentary map, in which the two forces that ruled Euskadi just seven years ago today do not reach half of the seats at the time, and in which the government agreement brought by candidate Urkullu today is not enough alone to govern the majority. We were talking about the challenges ahead, which are many and quiet, and after a legislature like the past, in which we all coincided that it was a grey and lost legislature, in which it begins now we have to be able to give answers. It's been in EAJ's place for years and years, and that's the opinion of many people, and so is mine. In other words, he seems to do things, he seems to move, but he keeps turning and turning the same things over and over again, without any significant progress. In fact, he rarely comes out of the rotonda. And I have to admit, he hasn't gone badly, he's almost always been the election winner. So they think or think what they're gonna change? What happens is that he has made himself master of this political romance, and that he never comes out, and that he who is in it has the preference, the other political forces have had real problems only in the circuit. Now as the dowry of the advantageous marriage with the Social Party, EAJ has decided to contribute that romance to the profitable society. He's also safe. And the dowry has made circulation even more confusing. If it was hard to turn around and get out on the road, there are two of them now, and there's nothing to say. We're predicting a lot of traffic. And we're here to tell you that this society doesn't deserve any more traffic. Tell him you have to get him out of the car at once. To say that we must go on together. For after the campaign and the election had passed, all the political forces were told that the law which we now open must be a law of agreement. And instead, it can become a law of the blocks. We already have a block ahead of us. And we must honestly tell EH Collector that it is sterile for the recovery of another block. And besides, numbers don't seem to be. We're here to build Podemos together. And especially I'm going to try to unlock politics and not to lock them up. At least that's why I'm here. That is why, I repeat, we like your future government to be only thirty-seven, because that minority means that Parliament is going to be decisive. It means we're gonna have to talk a lot more to make deals, yeah, but to make them listen all the time, too. This Basque Parliament will be relevant. Moreover, here there is a progressive parliamentary majority of thirty-eight, although some of us are in the opposition and others in the Government. And the legacy of that majority, no matter how government, must be a legacy of social and democratic progress. EH Bildu and PSE and we have that responsibility. Mrs. Mountain, I'll give you an example. Together in Podemus we seek to recover a plan made by your party in the previous law: To pass to the Basque Act to regulate the tax-egory. The mountain, Mrs. EH Collect agreed, we get numbers. You dare to get out of the millonda? This is what I'm trying to tell you that we're going to try to get you all over again and again, so that you can at least have the chance of performing the consistency. And not only that, but we're going to propose to submit the tax inspection to the Red Beetle. Since it's a global fraud, we can do little from our little tax administration. So let's get together. With these two measures, we are confident that we should succeed more efficiently against legal security and fraud. He says that the agreement which is presented to us today will improve public services and social policy, preserving the public pressure, and fulfilling the end of public defense. Is this the miracle of oasis? We think it's fancy. Therefore, in this law, we must speak a great deal and a great deal, because in the struggle against fraud we must agree to a real engagement. Ignacio Bridge is a remarkable report of the chained bridge on your desk. What's to be done with that? But, going back to what we are dealing with, how we can reach agreements that respond to the challenges we have as a nation, Basque citizenship has opened a new stage, and at that new stage all political forces must rise to the challenge. We are all going to be necessary, and we all have a duty to bring to this House the needs, desires and pains of the citizens; sometimes to disagree, others to reach agreements, but always with the aim of making this Basque Parliament more useful than the previous one. And the agreements of this legislature must live up to the demands of the citizens. A progressive majority agreement, together with EH Bildu, that allows us to implement those policies of social advancement that make our citizens feel proud of their country, their services, their public system. And that we can join the PSE, now that these two forces with which we count to form a progressive majority again sit at the same table to talk about an alternative social agenda. An agreement for peace and coexistence in our country, which is up to the road that citizens have already begun to travel. We admit that with the PNV we can reach many agreements in this area, and we are prepared to be the strongest support in this area, provided that we work on the basis of mutual loyalty and take our opinion and, of course, that of all the others actively into account. Finally, it is well known that one of the central issues of this legislature will be self-government. For Elkarrekin We can self-government is the best tool Euskadi can have for the shielding of his social rights, and that is the conception that differentiates us from the PNV. We have said this actively and passively, that we are in favour of the right to decide on citizenship, but not only in the country model, but also on public services, on social rights or on taxation. With what participatory tools, with real decision-making capacity, is citizenship given? I don't think so. But we are also aware that in this Parliament there is a large majority willing to share at least part of the way needed to make Euskadi a more democratic country and to decide its future. Our bet is bilaterality and that of agreements within the framework of legality. We bet on the creation of the necessary mechanisms for the updating of the political status of Euskadi, through the participation not only of political parties, but of social actors and their citizens. We bet on the creation of the mechanisms for debate, participation and, of course, for the endorsement necessary to go this way. We can reach agreements and we are willing to try. The majority have changed, not only in Euskadi, but also in Madrid. I believe that, as you see, Mr Urkullu, we have been critical of the government agreement that you have presented to us, but we have also shown a clear vocation to reach agreements and have pointed out a number of subjects. Now the responsibility to allow circulation at the roundabout is yours. To conclude, in this law, I set a challenge upon myself: the majority of the projects of peace and co-existence, at least of importance, were unanimously accepted. Can I help you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Time is up. The Representative of the EH Group has the word. Lady Trouble is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u14	Mrs. President, all the members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, friends. Today the government will be reflected between the EAJ and the PSE. This society said in the final elections that it wanted the popular election, and, alas, we shall have an old alliance between parties. Doing the usual thing with the rest of the world. An arrangement with regard to a short term, determined to protect the interests of the authorities rather than promote general interests. This government is neither effective nor stable. This government will not be efficient or stable. It will not be efficient when it comes to solving the needs of the country, because it is based on the principles of politics of the past, that of "take this and give this to me", because it does not aim to offer new paths, new solutions that can get us out of the impasse. Its sole objective is for those who make up that Government to continue to do so, in the Government. It will not be a stable government, because it will be a minority government. It could have been a government with 80% of this House, but they've decided it's a half-minus-one government. Nor will it be a plural government, because it leaves out great sensitivities of this country. And if the government is neither efficient nor stable nor plural, it will not comply with any of the things it promises to be, the question is: what are we moving forward? what are we improving?, what does citizenship gain from such agreements? This society has said that it wanted a country agreement, and the only thing that is going to be given to it is an agreement between parties. And I must say, Mr. Urkullu, when you mentioned President Aguirre, who was 80 years old, I had a point of hope, because there were men of great influence in the government of that time, not only the President Aguirre, but the President, Telesforus de Monzón, or Gonzalus Nárdi. And that agreement was indeed transverse. And the only one who placed this transverse agreement here on the table is the Basque Country. We went through the campaign, we also did it with you, and we did it with Podemos. We put transversal deals on the table. And that government of Agirre made a Basque statute, which had only fourteen articles, which regulated minimum competencies..., and it got a system of powers, it got a maximum application, and it turned an autonomous region into an almost sovereign state. Unfortunately, this agreement that puts us on the table points in the opposite direction: we move from proposing a state to being a region in the Spanish state. And also a region that doesn't move forward. You said at the end of your speech: "I compromise these principles from two basic premises: to ensure the economic and budgetary viability of our project, and to guarantee the future sustainability of the initiatives we launch." And I already tell you that you can commit to this, because you promise nothing new. Because you promise to do the same thing you've been doing for the last four years, the last thing you've been doing for the last eight years. And I can also guarantee you where this town is going to be in four years' time: exactly where it was. And, that is, more and more away from the leading countries of Europe and more and more close to Spain. And Mr Alonso told him; he gave him data comparing us with Spain (he said it with great satisfaction, I observe it with great concern). And it's true, Mr. Urkullu, it's time to get out of the roundabout. The remaining debates must be addressed and the problems of the past solved. It takes responsibility, political height and courage. You also said that there is a reasonable expectation that the international context of economic recovery will be consolidated. Do you know what advanced countries do? They don't wait, no. They work, plan and consolidate. Because you know what end-of-tail people do, don't you? This. Because in the end we all know that the theory of the tide that Mrs Margaret Thatcher was defending doesn't work, and that because it goes well for some we won't go well for all of us. Zure hitzak ere izan will say: "Eutsi egingo diogo egonkortasun ekonomikoari kudeaketan". How? How? If even the initial harvest prospects of 2016 are not to be fulfilled! If, as of 14 October, the Basque Finance Council already said or promised that at least EUR 473 million less collection, let us hope that it will not increase! And 473 million euros of collection give for many things. They pay for all RGI, all AES and additional housing benefits. And it's true that the tax advisor claimed that Rajoy... Nothing happened, because Rajoy was going to allow the autonomous communities to be further indebted. What's positive about that? Is the debt of EUR 271 million positive? It's going to be more debt and it's going to be more cuts, even if they're called budget failures, but they're cuts. And you know, Mr Urkullu, this country, for its GDP per capita data, meets all the conditions for being among the most advanced countries, but you have decided that this is not the case. We have a fiscal pressure of 30.90% of GDP in 2014, while the European average is 40, that of the euro zone of 41.50, that of France of 47.50, and that of Denmark of 50.80. And we also collect this in an absolutely unfair way, because more than 85 % of direct tax collection comes from the IRPF, which nevertheless constitutes only 49 % of GDP. That is why income from work is being unfairly pressured. And Stiglitz, Nobel Prize in Economics, said: "It makes no sense for investors – not to mention speculators – to pay less taxes than those who work hard to earn a living." And yet that is what this tax system does. We as a country are ready to take that step, we want to be an advanced country. And you mentioned the industrial sector for a long time. But I'll tell you what you didn't mention about the industry, and it was the industrial policy you didn't even mention the politics. And it is true that the industrial sector has been the engine of the Basque economy, but it is also true that for that in the 1980s this Basque Government activated an industrial policy that faced conversion and was also able to open up to sectors such as aeronautics or energy. But there has been no realistic update of these policies. If in 2007, before the entry into the government of the PSOE, and subsequently of its government, the weight in the GDP of the industry was 25.6, the figure for 2014 places us at 21.2: 170,000 jobs lost, and 6,000 companies closed. Despite the fact that we have the Basque youth more prepared; although we have 52.4% of men and 60% of women between the ages of thirty and thirty-five have higher qualifications. This is the balance in two legislatures, because in industrial policy it is where you most notice the silo mentality you have in the government, where the different levels of governance are divided and where long-term visions have been sacrificed for short-term considerations. Because let's also look at the Basque Country 4.0 proposal, which is inspired by the German Industry 4.0 proposal. When did the German proposal come from? From 2006, and also involves investments of 14.6 billion euros. The copy we are making is not only losing millions of euros along the way: it is losing diagnosis, it is losing inspiring principles, such as the discussion forum. The analysis of the basic costs and risks of these documents has not been carried out, as requested by the ITRE Committee of the European Parliament. What are you offering small and medium-sized enterprises? This, here is a public leadership approach, and here we have a problem, because you are not with companies (I'm not talking about the employers lobby, I'm talking about companies). They have been with this proposal for two years, and they have not yet defined why. I was told the other day by a colleague coming out of the presentation, and asked me, as a professional in the sector, to work to strengthen it. Why, if not, do we not also talk about the evaluation of the Industrialization Plan 2014-2016 agreed by the Socialist Party and the PNV? What's the result of advanced services? He's not here. And the number of patents? He went down. What about the technical level of corporations? Average value has withdrawn. Why don't you stop and do the right diagnosis and start changing things? When do we stop? You managed to unite all the unions in one thing, and it was to ask them to get out of the streets to create a real industrial policy. And it's not just the unions that ask us to do that. It also appears in the form of the orchestra, that when RIS3 is recorded, it is said that it is necessary to act as a people. And that's between everyone and everyone, and that's where we're ready. Because in industrial policy, the Basque Government resembles family businesses, those that found grandparents, kept their children and squandered their grandchildren. And at that stage we are. We have the human and material resources to implement industrial policy, the industrial policy that this country needs, but public leadership is lacking. And it is essential that the Basque Government and the public administration as a whole should promote an effective industrial policy, agreed with all political, social and economic actors, which will, of course, reverse privatization, and address the urgent need for the ecological transformation of the economy and society, with a view to achieving an advanced technologically diversified industrial fabric in terms of productive specialization. Developing an industrial policy requires investment, and, of course, setting aside neoliberalism. To promote public spending to improve the productive fabric, and in parallel also to regain control of employment, by participating in private enterprises if they are investing in them, and to encourage public enterprises, as well as the quality financial system. Interesting bets that have been made in the past, such as the bet that was made for fiber optics, but we have to change the end: we cannot make all the investment in fiber optics and when it is profitable to sell it to the friends. Instead, you have to make country bets, and not, when they work, privatize them. Making country bets at the service of this country, that is the advanced and shared country offered by Euskal Herria Bildu. And that's what we plan to develop with you. And if there's something on the table that everyone agrees, it's research and development. That's where we all say that we agree, and that we even engaged to increase the presupustacular dotation. We agreed to that, too. But I haven't seen the self-criticism here either. While a criticism is being made from Europe, and it is said that in Europe it is particularly effective by turning money into knowledge, but there is a deficit in turning knowledge into technology, here we say that we are in excellence. However, the investment is increasingly low: we are down from 2.06% in 2012 to 1.84% in 2015, and there is a lack of self-criticism. And it is very necessary to make a diagnosis in order to move forward, because money doesn't solve everything. That we increase budget allocations, if we don't know what to spend on, will not make us more efficient in research and development either. And the Basque Science and Technology Network has provided them with enough indicators. Hear also the complaints of the researchers, hear also what is said about the bureaucratization in this profession. But it's not just that, it's not just that we need to increase public investment. We also have to make private investment go up and up. And then there are people, investigators, because all that is supported by people. How many people don't come back, because they're planning, because there are so many scholarships left when they come back to make their own labs? Or how many people end up leaving? How many people do I know, as students, who have won prizes at the end of their career, and who have not come to an end outside work? How many knowledge hasn't been given? And more than that, how many researchers have we directed, because we have no policy of their own? The same applies to energy policy. It plans a competitive and sustainable energy policy, and although they know that the current state regulatory framework is drowning our productive sectors, there is no firm approach to tackling it. There is no approach that incorporates smart distribution networks, no distributed generation plan, and no R & D+i bet. The strategic bet that you make obvious generation and distribution, and basically focuses on the final destination. A strategy missing two legs is going to be lame. With regard to job creation, they also say that industry generates employment. What about the administration? Currently the largest contracting company is Osakidetza! We must also set ourselves a goal here, not looking again at what is possible in Spain, not contenting Mr Alonso. We need to make a strategy that looks at Europe. And here, what do we have? That the number of public jobs corresponds to 21%. That is the European average. That would lead to the creation of 40,000 jobs in the coming decades. It would also allow us to reverse all the staff cuts that have been made in health and education, key sectors for the well-being of citizens as a whole. But we're going in the opposite direction. We are going in the opposite direction to an advanced, fair and balanced country. The progressive loss of quality of our public services is very worrying, and it is the cuts that are really worrying. And even more painful because it does not really respond to our capacity as a country, but fundamentally to the restrictions imposed on us from Madrid. We propose to reverse trends, strengthen public employment, and restore the working day of thirty-five hours per week in the Administration, which is also not our invention. Not only because it was already, but because it is a measure that applies, albeit with nuances, in countries such as the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Germany or Switzerland. There are studies and data on their effectiveness and positive effect, including on macroeconomic economic indicators. When we talk about employment, it is necessary to clarify that we are talking about decent and quality jobs, and it is intolerable that the Basque Government, instead of promoting this, should promote insecurity from the public sector. An advanced town is possible, but not with past prayers. Education, for instance. You propose a covenant to us in education, and we offer a peace of education, because the treaty does not agree, but the agreement does. And in education it has also been evident that what has not been mentioned is LOMMCE. My daughter and her roommates are very worried about LOMCE. They're on the second step of high school, and in June they're going to have to go back to rehab. LOMCE or eupscal LAMCE, as you would like to call it, but they'll have to do it. And LAMCE or eescal LAMCE will force him to take an examination with all the students of eight, 11, 15 and 17 years, to make a study that has no pedagogical purpose, to make an examination that can be proposed from Madrid. It is not pedagogical, it is useless, and it nourishes a centralization. The students, the teachers, the families are worried about us, but in this speech, LOMCE hasn't appeared. You've applied the restrictions in education, you've applied LOMCE, which must be changed. And we'll have to answer the needs of the university too. We'll remember that tomorrow we'll probably have a new reactor. A woman will be a rector, the first woman, the rector, and the University of the Basque Country, as well as our university in the Basque Country. And that's a great thing to do, because most of the students are women at this moment at school, because they're going to the majority of the teachers and see how a woman comes to a high position too. That's good to hear. But it's time for college to go on. And the rector before told us that they were not filling up economic agreements and even the Norwegian frame today won't allow the university development as it should. And we believe that the law of the university is indispensable, but that's how the rector and all the rector today have expressed it. Not investing in social spending is expensive, it is very expensive, and the evaluation of the management of these years has also been very scarce. You and your government know very well that in five years' time the hardships of young men will increase in keeping our current policy. We're going to make a living project, and we don't have a chance to make a housing plan. Because there are many people who believe that the worst of the crisis has not happened. And what are we going to tell all these people? Because not investing does come out expensive. Mr. Urkullu, are we going to continue the same way, or are we going to make it better? Today, social protection does not reach all the people who need it, and even less the most impoverished and precarious people. The cuts of the Patxi López Government have left more than 20,000 people outside of the GIR, and there are already nearly 15,000 long-term unemployed who do not receive any benefits. In addition to the fact that young people between 18 and 24 years of age have never been able to access it, when it is one of the most precarious and needy sectors of this aid. She explained to you our approach to pensions. There are more than 25,000 retirees who have to supplement their pensions with GIR. We have more than 160,000 that do not reach the 1,080 that we raise. And that's between our rights. We can do it. Looking at the national affairs, the Basque Country has started its course step by step. We've been able to start the change in the Navarro. In the North of the Basque Country, the nation will set up its first starting point, and then increase its end and its end. And what's going on in EAE? The territory which is open to the great political and the best of conditions is suspended. And the question is: Why? Why, Mr. Urkullu, don't you believe in the choices in this town? When did you stop believing? Why do you accept all the limits established by others? Aren't you looking at the winning game as lost in advance? We believe that this people can win what they deserve, no more or less. And the only condition for this is to listen to the people, to believe in the people without limit. And I'm giving you hope here. EH is from this town, and knows very well that this country is in another stage. We believe in this people, and this village supports the right of deciding on 75% of September 25th. You promised this people a binding consultation in 2015, and you failed to do so. He offers us in his speech a far-reaching look. How long do you trust him? I accused him in campaign of retreating to the approach of the lehendakari Ibarretxe; sorry, I was wrong: you go further back, and not precisely to the times of the lehendakari Agirre. Mr Urkullu, you speak of respect for the principle of legality and the democratic principle. In the Spanish State this means subordination of democratic principles to the legal order. Are you going to accept that this country is subaltern in the Spanish state? Did you, who began your speech by naming the Lehendakari Agirre, who went into exile precisely for putting the principle of democracy above that of the legality imposed by the coup government of Franco? What's left of this town! David Fernández said: "There is either a democratic path to independence, or there will be an independent path to democracy." Peace and mutual life. We'll join in this area with your analysis about political times. For five years we have been inclined to strengthen one's position in the trenches. And it's time for things to happen and take steps. Five years ago, the Aete deal was born. And it is true, too, that Arzio Quirog proposed that the attempt was also a point of inflexium, and they must come to the things of Urgence. And we consider it a step forward several projected by you. They are not what we should suggest, but they are steps; what you propose may be steps forward to humanize the confession and observation of the victims, or the policy of prison. We regard it as positive, which, though not mentioned to-day, is brought in the cynication of dispertantiation. Besides, because we see that the first step will be to take the 16 victims of a dispersion which are not yet accepted. And we hope it was an accident this Friday, and that there will be no death, no more victims like that. We unite to pass from our plan to reality, and we have integrity. Mr Urkullu suspends, comrades of Podemos, but let us not deceive ourselves: do not suspend because he has not studied enough. He did not want to approve certain subjects: he did not want to approve them in the social sphere, he did not want to approve them with the trade union majority or with the one with whom he suffered most. That's gonna touch us and us. And we have shown that we can work together, and we can also work together for new policies. It was M. d'A. d'A. d'A. d'A. d'A. And we did it, too, with a new policy, because it was our turn to get rid of the second one and take a step to the third. But what we proved at that moment, and from the beginning you and I were with us, was our commitment to the people. That mayorship wasn't a place to get it, that we were engaged to the village. And that's where we worked together. We've been working together, not just working together, but we've been working together ever since. And, as we have seen, the proposals which appeared in your programme, so many of us have been introduced to the Basque People in this Chamber and have not been able to get them. And we're glad to see you agree, too, because now we can have more opportunities to get ahead. We also agree with the concerns Mrs. We're not connected, but we agree with your concerns, and we think we'll find ourselves on the way. It'll probably be easy to understand each other in social areas. We agree in the right to decide, but we will probably take a few steps along the road to the sovereignty, not others, because if we have any clear evidence that our starting-point is the Basque Country, your starting-point is that of Madrid. But it's possible that we're working together in different areas and we're trying to get ahead of ourselves. And we will unite in institutions as we have done in other institutions. But we also plan to work in the street. One thing because the Basque Country is very clear: things won't change here. It's crucial to be here. It's essential to make politics out of this, but reality changes in the street. And even then we give you a hand to come and change the street where we work. We think that on that road we can have productive fruits and we can make one. And we can do it in this town, we can be it. We believe that we can and can do what we want, what we deserve. And that will be the work of EH Collect in this parliament, and four years in the street: working for everything that this town can be. In a sense, but in search of popular traditions. And we're also sure that we'll succeed. And what was proposed to us in the campaign, and what was proposed to us in the following manner: it is time, and the people ask us to do popular provocations. And we clearly see that in these popular assemblies we have a path to the Jestric Party. And we also find that in these popular contests we have a path to Podemos. And we open our choice, not to the rest, but to agree that if it is a good bargain, it is possible for all of us to agree with them. But above all, our agreements will be watching the people, the majority looking at the syndicate, and the movements of the people will be connected with their wishes. It's time for the popular traditions to prevail, but it's time to make new policies. As we did in a gastric model: Look at the people and do not look at our seats. And that's why you'll be ready for the Basque Country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u16	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. In the context of this inquest, at least, for the benefit of what we're going to discuss this morning's session and afternoon, I think, the interferences are all right, I hope, in a good tone, and I hope they're not angry, but what's clear is that we're in an inquest, but there's only one candidate. Now, in the defense of Mrs. problemon, the traces of her cancer have been lost. I didn't realize where that line of defense was. And I think it's his testimony that we met for the last time in the day with the EH Collectors, and he said: "We are perfectly aware that the citizens of this part of our Basque Country have chosen us to be the first force of opposition. But at the same time, it is quite clear that it puts us in front of a great responsibilities, if we want to make an alternative, and that we will always be able to make a stand for the social progress of this country, and for the agreements which lead to the national side of the nation." Then, if one sees himself, if he wants to be the chief and alternative, I think it's an inquest in front of the rest of us, well, I have mine here, and I want to participate in this attempt of inquest. But let's admit, not today, but tomorrow, the only person who can choose the President is the Urcullu. So four years ago Laura Minkárek did it, and today, with all right, Irries in Maddalen. But the question is, what is the president's chief opposition today and tomorrow? I think that it was clear, and that it was decided by the people, at the head of the opposition, that Podemos is at a distance, there is no such fear or uneasiness. But you've done a choice. And when there's a horn, a speech, in the proposition section, I read the program, the e-mail program, and I picked it up and put it in "Our Government," and it was an informal program. And if they meet with a government program, what will they do, what achievements have you got to assemble other votes? I mean, from 18, I don't know, to go to 29, for instance? It was in that context that morning's early session. And I think there's a difference in two things. One, it's not an attempt to ask questions and requests. Asking and asking must be an attempt to make proposals and specifications. And there was an attempt to ask questions and demands, and another was to give answers and proposals. That's what the morning session was about. It has been remarked in the context that we have lived difficult times, that there are many questions, and I should say there are many questions without any answer. But it has been mentioned in our context and the context of Europe that the growth of the economy is weakening, and it is also liable to weaken. That political changes have also existed, although they have occurred in America, may affect us directly. Or what might happen in France, or bruxite, or Austria, or whatever it may be. It is clear that a tendency towards this projection is clearly discernible. And that will increase the tensions and influence us. And economic growth may be damaged. And that, I don't say, like prevention, but what's clear is that the public will be under pressure. On the one hand, the limits of debt; if he wishes to protect the course of society of well-being, he must decide; And it is quite clear that what we have is that Social Security can also be in a very bad situation in the state. Therefore, in a direct answer to Alfonso Alonsus, it would be best, as is agreed, to change this right by hand, and give it up to the Basque Institutions, that our pensioners may be assured of the future, and leave it in the hands of the Basque institutions. Why the present failure is not the case with the institution of euscal, it is not the most retired of Basques, it is not that of the Basque Worker, but of the person who has handled it. That's why I think there's got to be a transfer. We say that the growth of economics must be increased, that unemployment must be diminished, and that even the differences should be diminished. Although Europe says that at this moment she'll invest 50,000 millions, it's obvious that it won't be enough, even at a distance, but that's what led us to another debate, that is to say, that of the prosecutor. To lead public policies forward, a proper prosecution is required. The taxship to be invented in social justice and in favor of economic growth, which will aid economic growth, and must be just and direct. And what is there, I think, is three consequences, which the President has spoken of, and which have been various in the campaign; what is clear is that we ought to increase the ingree, and guard it, it is plain that we ought to govern it wisely, wisely, and that we must be of service to the expense. And if we're talking about investments, and we're talking about the end of the story, it's clear that investments must also be effective. So all this must be put into a national strategy, within a popular strategy, the definition and management of it all. A hundred producers get stronger and more cared for. We believe in it, and so we practise in regard to the question of industry. A productive economy and productive economy, that it may be modern and living, and produce employments of quality. But there always seems to be a ghost there, the prosecutor's pressure. And I'd like to say a few words. Why, then, is it said at last, if we compare it with the nations of North Europe, there are such differences, that there are 8, 10, 12. In any case, what's clear is that around the prosecutor's pressure, and it's all the same whether you take the rent statement or take other taxes, it's clear that our system is one and the other one. And what's the difference? If, for instance, we were to eliminate or eliminate all the deterrents here, I say for the family, or for the housing, or for the rents, or for the investments, for the sake of the whole thing, we should deprive them of all these removers, our pressure would increase at 6.8, 10 points. You, for instance, have proposed to remove the housing removal, yes, it's in the program. 420 million, I have a date on the prosecutor's influence and on whom in Biscay, Gipukian and Aran. And the injured sector is 20,000 to 40,000 people. If, then, this removal is abolished, it does this directly wrong, especially as I do not say it. But what I mean is that the people of North Europe are not in North Europe, but that of Germany, which is also held in Germany, differ. And here those who are removed are not there to be removed, but the state gives them away. And yet, because they have better wages in their pockets, what is called a disponderant, or much more is to be saved or consumed. Why? Because other public services here are firmly guaranteed. That's right. And in order to see it, there's only one thing about it that you'll know, both Mrs. Iriart and Mrs. They really measure it. They measure the difference of incomes on one side, and the other measures the differences which may be in this disconsolate income, and makes them 20 out of the top and 20 below, and estimates media. Why does Euskadi explain himself among the most advanced nations in Europe? What is it, a miracle? No, what it is is, a calculation is made which has the greatest difference in incomes, and which in this disconsolate income. And we just point out the difference of money on the board of that coefficient, the score of 27,1 between Austria and Denmark, but Germany, Ireland, France, the United Kingdom before them. And before the whole average of Europe and the whole of Spain. And in the division of the difference between us, the score of 4,2, are followed by Sweden, and before Denmark, France, Luxembourg, Germany, Ireland, and Spain. I mean, if we're going to talk about the prosecutor and the prosecutor, let's talk about the homogeneous terms. Why, if we compare different things, the conclusions may also be wrong, the consequences may be wrong. But it's a matter of debate. But I told you about the housing. Among the tax collectors, 431,000 people apply the remover of the housing: $81,000 Aran, 214,000 in Bizka and in the gym 136. It's a tramo that's most emotionally affected thing between 10,000 and 40,000 euros. Isn't that a middle class? A fraud prosecutor. The Delayed charge, the information is mandatory, and the means are set. And the report is mentioned, this report so popular. Well, this report, so popular, says it's very difficult for them to appreciate it, that they don't have tools to do it. It may be said that the procedures are not suitable for the estimate. Still, they say ours is between 16-17-18%. A state economy at 16-17%, European at 18%. Spain 22%, Belgium 16% and Sweden 14%. If ours is 16-17 percent, how far does it go from European media? And yet, General Juntas, who are to control the foru-alduns and the foru-bursts, spend every year studying the plans of taxation, and proposing new measures. I mean, the organizations are after fraud. But to do it, to say that $2,300 million are at the corner, turn around, take it and bring it to the forums. No, you have to follow that. And you'll probably end up in a courtroom and a lot of companies shut up and couldn't get paid, and maybe you'll stay with the pavilion or with the machines. But what is true is that the three aldunities are still working on it. Industrial and employment. I won't be too long, but since you mention the subject of nobility and parents and children or grandchildren, I've even heard you through the campaign and you don't make a X-ray. I don't know how familiar all of us are, and what has become of those familiar corporations in this town of the last decades? I don't know if you understand, I think you do. This other tax office has had a tremendous impact on the family business. More than one had vanished for a long time, and others had been obliged to a special prosecution a few years ago. You forgot to tell me and I think you'll be okay to complete your analysis. But you make an estimate of money in paper. And now you've created a dynamic of registration of proposals in the legislature, but you make an estimate of how to fulfill your program. I don't know, if we took your numbers themselves, it would take 1,400, 1,500 million apart from what's now. If you say 40,000 public jobs, then go down 10,000, like this is a market. 10,000 public jobs, we appreciate 30,000 euros per post, 350 million. And you say: Where, and for what? Why say bonbers and enfermeres and... Look, if you don't have any new rights, how do you justify $50 million a year? Why OPE and the rest of us are curious to see why they need to be examined, perhaps less than we want. But to say that all of a sudden, we're gonna create 10,000 jobs and 30,000 for each year, 350 million per year, and then 40,000 with inspiration to arrive. Well, you'll have to explain the funding of money that you need to finance. And it has been the topic of our coming to-day, at least, of all of us, and the President has also mentioned in his discourse how we see social politics in the future, how we must guard our system. The truth is the danger of poverty, the percentages are there. But in 1989, when the primary income was adopted in this legislature, the patriotic left-handed party voted his presence and his refusal, and then there was no other vote. And, klar, I've got a problem here, and Mr. Urizar says, "we were the EA in another time." Yes, I admit that, but the patriotic left-hand side has a great weight at EH Union, which is undeniable, I don't know how you are in proportion, but it's very heavy. Then we see here the rate of poverty between 1986 and 2014, and we see that even in crisis between 2008 and 2012, but from a percentage up to 13, up to 7.9, 5.7. But that doesn't surprise me. I am more surprised by the deliberate omission of Podemos and Bildu in this matter, because I say, well, like... we are not new in this matter, but considering that everyone is looking for their references, I am surprised that they have not cited, neither Podemos nor EH Bildu, the agreements we have reached in this matter, for example, in Navarre. If the paradigm of progressiveism are (we are) – we have an agreement in Navarre (or do we not know it?) on rent, new rent–..., then, I say, for they will have made the comparison! Because if Navarra's synthesis, with the possibilities that exist today, has given us to reach an agreement, I say, let's compare! Sure. And we are linked to that agreement, which we value positively, but here we are better. Better. In all benefits, in all, and I'm not going to enumerate. If someone has had the detail to compare, or compare, then they can measure. I mean by this, if the mirror of progress is there and we have to run a course of progress here, to make the light, why, both there and there, the only common party in the world is directed by the Jest Party. And I will not say that we are the only party in the sphere of this advancement, no, there are many parties. But the policies that have been progressive and progressive are the only one who really has ever been the Jelt Party of Eusia. And I want to remind you that he had been the Communist Party of the Basque Country, during all those decades, that he was a spokesman of Merene Eraskin, for the first time, from the point of view of the patriotic left, and from the commitments he began to vote for. Why, until then, the priorities were different. It wasn't routine, there were other priorities. I'm not going to make the comparison, but Navarre's clean. And then we see that we have all the help we have with that minimum wage between our callings. And here comes the other, the question of coherence. Because, of course, here I have at least two details for Podemos, which are from last week. Employment Commission, Isabel Franco, deputy of Podemos: when talking about who can determine the interprofessional minimum wage, we demand that the autonomous communities can do so, and Podemos answers that consult yes, but decide no. Decide the center. And in the famous Law 25, that of Social Emergency of the weakened legislature, the former, claiming a competitive invasion, We can claim for itself, as exclusive competence, social assistance. He voted. Aktak daude. But, in case I get any doubts, like this weekend I've also read the newspaper, and Gara... It was in Basque, but it seemed to me to be a very interesting debate that Helena Franco had with Juan Carlos Monedero. And I'm saying it in advance, and I agree with what Helena Franco said. And Helena Franco isn't Ricardo Gatzegabary, but he knows what it's like to manage public money. And he says: "I wish to praise the value of the work, for it is the first step to distribute the rent. I'm not idealizing the work, but we need to recover the consciousness of the working class. A government which wishes to ensure a collective prosperity, in order to support the conditions of the lives of all the citizens, ought to maintain that the well-being of the community is favorable. We are on our way to the models of the attorney-general, and only one basic income can be financed if the model of well-being is preserved. That's why it's essential to increase the tax revenues." We agree. "In matters of tax, when there's a solid system, even if it doesn't work, any movement has a tremendous social response, and that's what you need to take into account. And it's not the answer of the higher classes that bothers me, it's the middle one." Counts as an example: "By putting down the basic income of research, the 700,000 guitars that charge over 20,000 and 35,000 per year would be damaged if they put a basic income on it. "In spite of everything, that brings social confession with middle classes. We must take dangerous decisions, but be careful to interfere with those who are potential allies for transformation, beware of radical changes." Monederus answers and says: "There are no alternative policies without experiment. We don't have an alternative to 400-year-old capitalism or a 200-year-old replacement democracy. If we don't find out, we don't have it." Ba hemen garbi dagoena daperimentaziorako denborarik eta aukerarik ez dagoela. Hemen egin behar dena da erabakietan asmatu. Is this Hobetu daitekeela system being bidean? Teenagers. Baina wasbakietan asmatu egin behar da. Eta demagogiarako joera dutenei, behintzat, hori esan nahi nieke. Eta badago beste bergarar bat, Luis Ugalde Olalde, Bergarako Semea, Jesuit, esaten duena: "The solution is not to renounce utopia, but to take it as inspiration to make viable transformation projects with effective achievements of freedom and social justice. The utopian thought that does not accept the fact that without the given reality, however poor and negative we have nothing, and that it despises the graduality of a good government because what needs to be done is not reforms but revolution, it is the best way to guarantee permanent frustration..." Therefore, the PNV, neither resignation nor fatalism. We believe in utopia as an inspiration for making credible programs and actions that serve to advance social justice parameters. Peace and fellowship. You were saying, "Close the wounds." And I say shut your wounds. You mentioned victims. You're missing the identification of the victim. I've continued your campaign, and I agree. And as a spokesman or a parliamentary gathering of the Basque People, and as a candidate for president, I consider what has been said in the campaign. But they don't all think like that at EH Collecton. And we have a way to do it. I think it is quite clear, and in short, that the problem is to criticize the institutions and those who have done it. There he is. Why do we confess pain, we all confess the pain we have suffered? The point is what positions we take in front of this pain. In this tributary tribe, it is true of using the Thin, but he said, 'that violence has dehumanized us.' And that's what it was, I won't say a real step, but it's a step ahead that you're told that this inhumanization might have led you to something that didn't have any justification for it. But there's a way to make it. Why the past can't be changed. It happened and it's right there. The point is if we look at the past what we see and how we feel, and where we were each of us. And we pretended not to see him, or gave him an explanation, or a justification. And there's a problem in this justification. Why is it just to justify you? And that's where we have to do it. Therefore, when we speak of the future, we must make a critical examination about the past, or if we are to share politically in the future a strategic course, we must give the past that minimum glance. Or should we play the blind guy? The Lujanbium of Mail wrote a few verses for the day of memory, and I make mine: "All the stones are different and all the stones are alike. Every one must possess his ideas, words, and edges. But we are not equal to one another, but equal to one another. Help us work on the first parts by smoothing the edges. Time won't do everything, rain and wind. It can only work out the stone that we want, the life, the words that we hear and say. Time won't do everything, but will will." It's this week's. I have read in memory, ethics, and politics: "We are not going anywhere if a President of this country supports murder, torture, execution, suspicion, and all sorts of excesses. For the day of the last Memorial Memory, ye also have to exercise a profound individual and collective exercise, putting aside every temptation to deceive the people, for memory is stubborn, and we never forget it." You've got work to do, starting from home. And of the last subject, of political states at least a minute, I should like to say, that this state of government distinguishes the positions of each party from what we need, and what we can defend in this legislature; and that we fixed our positions at the beginning and writing of this year, and that we are ready to make that course. And what is said here is "and if this is not done and it does not come to be, what are we to do? "that you must have this answer beforehand. I don't like that surveillance and supervisor and interbillor paper, so why do you seem to know "and if this happens, what are you going to do? "I don't know. It is what we have cleanly, and I have already explained to you that what we have now, what this people and the legislature solves, we must defend it. And he who stands before you will say what he wants to say about a table, but we must defend it to the end. It is here to apply the democratic patience which I have often alluded to. And it's a democratic patience, if you don't know what it is, because you don't owe PNV to you, but it's a democratic patience with a patriotic left hand in the last decades. You'll bring that to politics and see how we can get through it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u17	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. To answer the legal teams, Mrs. Irart Okiñena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u18	I'll start with Zero, Mr. Egibar. You just mentioned, at the beginning of your practice, that we didn't say anything about you at the House of Urkullu, and that Mr. And, to tell you the truth, you've done the same thing with your Urkullu, you haven't said a word about him, and above all you must admit that you have talked about me. In any case, even Mrs. Mountain said I'm here... Oh, how did you say, Mrs. Mountain, the candidate's case? I'm the one who's come from the Basque Country gathering, putting what we believe here on the table. Very seriously and with great care and care, and moreover, since it is my first time, I have come to this with great illusions. but as I have just said before, the proposals which we have brought to this table may be established, we have examined them ourselves, and may perhaps be patterns which must be modified. But I've come to work here very seriously. In the neighbourhood of the Basque Country, Mr. Egibar, I have done you some distinction even before now, and I have sometimes caught you in a couple of times, I am sure I didn't know what you were talking about the patriotic left hand, what it was to create here, who promised... Look, we collect the Basque Country, and you know very well, Aralians, Alternatives, the Basque Alcharities, the creations, and all the independent persons who have come from outside. And I admit that in a election campaign, this might produce results, and that it could somehow place us in the past and place us in some dynamics that have not been appreciated for many people in the past. But the Basque Country is to be gathered together and the Basque People are to be gathered together and the Basque People are strong, and you know yourself that it will be very important for this country to make a great deal of defiance to this people. As it will be important for the Jestric Party, and as some other parties will be important, EH Collect as it is to-day, it will be very important for this people. That's why I'm asking you to tell me when we're making a difference... Could be in each house. And if I look at your house, I can find the shades I can do. But let each one take care of his own house, as you have told me before, I have a great deal of work at home. And it seems to me that we have collected EH, that we want to collect EH, that we have done an extraordinary effort to collect EH, and, I assure you, I think the EH Collect will be of extraordinary importance, and that you know it too. I'd say it's irresponsible, at least in a certain size, when you're making a joke like that. We know what precedents we have, we know how we got here, we know how it took us to do this. But now we're here, and for all the fields you've mentioned it seems to me that it's very important to be one of us. We have a name and it also gives us the name, and I think in that sense it's important to repeat it. And you told me that in the election campaign you agreed with what I said about life and that I have homework at home. And surely we all have a lot of domestic work in our house, and it is likely we shall all have to do at the end of this walk of law that we shall all have to do at the end of this road, because you know very well that there will be people on one side or the other, on one side and on the other side, who may perhaps get a word out of their desks, or leave them out of their pencils at the end of it, and that we may be all, in the end, to some extent, share in one piece of work, and which all the people share in one piece of cake. And surely, at the end of this work, we shall all be able to create another life, in order that the people may do what they are doing before us. And I think that in this Parliament we will be able to do that, and that we shall certainly have occasion to take steps. I believe you. I have come here in very few things, Mr. Egibar, and, above all, I have been watching the people. I know, you too, I have no doubt about that. But that's what I'm here for, and that's in my head. And a couple of things prevent me. The one is peace and life, and the other steps in it. And I think we need to take steps. I often care for peace, and when we speak of each other's life, and perhaps this, Mr. Urkullu, I should tell you, especially you, and you have mentioned it. Then I have no doubt that we must take steps when we are disarmed, and take important steps, and that we must make important steps. In any case, you will allow me, that the only one who has not taken any steps to make a defence is that of the Spanish Government. If the Spanish Government had a choice in its own hands, as all the other governments of the world have done in this way, to make its progress. We've met today, after a referendum, another settlement in Colombia and another government and... I know that there are conflicts in various shapes, of very different results, but what I mean is that a reflection can be made around the tools that have been used. And if there be a few single symmetrical governments in the world such as the Spanish Government, which has not taken any step to accomplish it. On the contrary, I'd say more. It seems to me that I have very little information, and perhaps you have more of it than of other things. Mr. Egibar, you've spoken to me a little and you've talked about this deal that you've made with the Socialist Party. The rhotonda has come out, how many times have we spoken about the romance, Mr. Egibar, you and I? I think, moreover, that in other terms, what you used to call rhotonda. In any case, you've mentioned the accounts of the romance more than once about the vital safety. And I've left you at the mill for a while and I've gone to the Baruzart, as you said yourself, to the general who you made at the beginning of this year. And it occurred to me that the political document you used there, and that you called the Basque Country, if it's not wrong, that it's a nation and has a right to decide. And besides, it was obvious that without mentioning directly the popular Party or the Socialist Party, you could see clearly that because you were talking about federalism and the others, you could see that you were making clear references to the Party and to the Socialist Party and you said you would never allow yourself to be involved in it. Well, either I don't quite understand the agreement you've made, or I think you've been a little disturbed, because I don't see how a state can get out of here in these years that it's a nation and has a right to decide. And I'd rather get my foot kicked out and a couple of years later, eight months later, if things were different and that'd be checked. Because it seems to me, Mr. Egiebar, that this is the time to take that step, this is the time for the Basque People to take that step. And you mentioned Navarre for a moment, the Navarre has taken great steps since his early years, and in January we shall see another organization in the North, which will probably have but few jurisdictions, but which in any case would be a great opportunity. And I think we can't lose this opportunity. And another thing I have said this morning, and it has been that the people choose us for four years, and that ours is four years old and not eternity. And therefore, since the majority of this people, in these four years, has made it clear, that if it be a right to decide what it has been, and what it has made plain, it would, I think, require us to take steps in this sense. And it's hard for me to think that you'll do that with the Social Party. I know, in the Socialist Party I've started listening to other voices, and the music of those other voices may have some other symptoms, but, as the Mountain has hitherto defended it, it's not the right to decide within its schema, Mrs. Mountain, you've often talked that way, you've told me. And it is hard for me to believe that this agreement will not hold you in possession of the steps which this people ought to take about its independence. And this I do not despise, that the measures and measures which have been taken in other respects may be of importance. I dare say they are out of our model, if you read the papers of the Socialist Party, or if you see the programmes of the Socialist Party's campaign, I have often thought that if they were to bring the paper to reality, we might perhaps be able to see other examples. And I don't think that's happened to the Social Party. The mountain has insisted that he has been able to mark the economic policy of the Jeltizer Party and the Jeltist Party politics, but I doubt whether this has been the case, even when he's been working with the Journal Party in the previous law and also when they were in command. So we'll see what it looks like. I have no confidence in the moment, but I repeat to you that this is the time for self-conscious steps, because, as I said in the morning, there are some airs in Europe that can encourage us in this. I know you don't look at Catalonia with extraordinary confidence, but I think there may be some important steps in Catalonia, and if that happens, I don't know what faces will be left to us. You've put a lot of numbers on my desk, Mr. Egibar, and I've got to tell you the truth. In any case, I can tell you with this question of numbers that there is also a model affair. And you can tell me that this or this is where the tax system affects them, and what they would be at this moment, and what things would be damaged as they are, and perhaps I can accept it. But what I think is that we have a chance to do more influence in enterprises, in great manufactures, and in places where much money is moved. Maybe we'll have to change our system now, maybe we'll have to look at the rental women you're talking about. But, apart from this, I think there is a dispute, there is a dispute about all the sects of this Parliament, and I think it is a quarrel. A yellow one. And some that we brought today on the table. I think that there are other examples of politics based on solidarity, that there are other models for social justice. That they're not a fantasy that's made of us, that we also have a economic program around them that, if I'm not mistaken, we've given you, too. And again I tell you, we've come to work here seriously, we're not the only ones who came here to tell us what we've been thinking about. And I'm telling you not with extraordinary hatred, because we're really confident and ready to work. This time, bargains were not possible, it's true. They could have been possible, Mr. Egiebar, they could have been possible, they couldn't have been possible. But you know, and Podemos will speak with them more accurately, so that the Socialists and Party Socialists will know, that the hands of the Basque People are ready to win their agreements and to arrange their agreements. And that we're ready from the beginning and that you've been our first chance. But we're ready with all the rest of us. And I'm going to continue with Podemos because I wanted to make a certain difference to you, Mrs. Wide, because you told us that we were negotiating with the Jeltist Party. Well, we were negotiating with the Jeltz Party, and we were talking to you. And we passed a couple of documents to the Jeltzai Party and the Jeltarian Party passed them to us, and so did you. And the Jeltarian Party answered us, and you did not answer us, for you have not answered us yet. I guess we can talk about this, in any case, to deep down... And I have all the hope of making laws yet, and, as I have said, to be able to act with all the other political powers. You asked me a question, Mrs. Wide, I don't know where I have that paper, I've written here somewhere what sort of society we want. And I think, looking at some things, I may not have explained them so clearly, but I have said that we mean a society where feminism will be in line-line, because the equality of men and women seems to me to be quite important to me, because it is the boundary of any starting-point. I told you the left hand, and I also determined how I understand the left hand, and the other, I wanted to bring on the table the solidarity of generations, and that we can't do the things we've got today, considering we have some offspring. I told you that independenceist, in order to start taking steps in the direction of the revolution, because some of us try to make their way to independence, because we see this rebellion as an indispensable tool for some particular things. Those who are willing to work in peace and mutual life, and I think that I have brought in some element of yours today. A popular cult, a nation that will investigate, a people developed, a happy people. That's a society we want, that's what we plan. And that's why, we thought for a moment... I don't know, I understand that some people don't think I'm the biggest candidate in the Urkullu, but I'm here as candidate and you didn't tell me anything special. And what I'd like to say is, at least, I'm telling you that, and we'll come by little and agree. You'll have to decide, too, because what you're saying in Madrid is not the same thing as what you're talking about and what you're talking about about about in Madrid and what you're talking about about about with the Jelz Party of Madrid or the Social Party of the Social Party, or what you're saying here. Then we'll just start gradually digging things up, and then the law will go on. It sometimes seems to me that it's important how lawyers sometimes begin, but the trial will end and we'll do the same. We found you at this beginning, but I think we'll have another time and that the moment will come and we'll have a chance to make mutual agreements. And as you have told Mr. Urkullu that you are prepared to work in peace and living together, we have said that we are ready to do it before now and I repeat again, Mr. Egibar. The mountain does not exist, but I wanted to congratulate her. Congratulations, indeed, because he has succeeded in a government after having confessed that they had been successful in the very evening of the election. And I wanted to congratulate him on the fact that I find it an extraordinary merit, as in Spain there is a Socialist Party, and I don't know very well where you are finally placed by the Basque Socialists, Mr. Audeza, and what circumstances you have, but in any case, considering the circumstances of the Socialist Party in Spain, it is an extraordinary merit, in fact, that you can achieve a spectacle in a government. Mrs. Hill told me I'm an opportunity president. Well, maybe you've got a government for salvation. But in short, such things are but to take the nest from the horns, and I think we must go on in this way, and above all, that the people have provided us with this work, to do the work. Everyone from their position, but I'm sure we'll have... and I tell you that I often see them on paper, and that we have made alliances with you in so many places. I can tell you, Mr. Equigbar, a certain distance, or when Mr. Urkullu said that this agreement is good for Spain. This makes me fear because I don't know why this is good for Spain; and if it's so good for Spain, I don't know, perhaps it's not so good for the Basque Country or the Basque People. About the right to decide what I wanted to tell Mrs. Mountain earlier. It seems to me that I have begun to hear other voices, Mr. Aundezana, on your side, and that the Socialist Party will probably have to take steps in this sense, and have to manage this situation differently. In any case, I've often heard the Mountain say that the right to decide is divided. And it seems to me that it is not the right of deciding what it is to divide, but that it is divided. Later, when we have a right to decide, we are either divided or not, that will be something we shall be able to see later on. But in any case, it seems to me as if it were the agreement of the Social Party, or that of the Government, which has been obtained by the Social Party. No, it doesn't. I might like it more or less, or I'd rather stay or not, but it doesn't divide this society. When Populous Party wins the Spanish elections, I don't like it, I don't agree, I don't think it's a proper government, but I don't think he does divide society, and think he takes very ill measures for society, and none of my favourites. So I don't think that's the case. This is more likely to me also, to the lady of the Hills, to tell her, and even to her, I should like to know the opinion of the Jestle and Government of the Eune, which, I think, is more divided, as you did in the campaign, with such divisions of dispatches about the euphorium. And then the popular party ran off to tell us the next day how much dissecting is caused by Euskar in the Basque Country. I think that really creates hatred. And I've said over and over this campaign and over and over again, and I'll repeat that we'll do everything we need to do to explain to all these people how beautiful this language is and how it is to give them all the conditions they need to give. But let us place ourselves in this, in the positive message, and not in the negative message. Because the negative message only gives us negative and only splits us. And I think that we need more than divide, in all respects, and also in this. Mr. Alonso, I am very glad, and I assure you, when I have proposed a feminist government, and have observed how important equality and equality between men and women are to me. And if I am not mistaken, you agree with the diagnosis I have done, that the extremity of iceberg is precisely this terrible violence and daily violence, and that we must solve it, if we have to find remedy for this last mess of violence. I believe that I have here set up a feminist government, which is the reason why many people are afraid of it, but I think it is not the word to be feared, but the word mentioned by the United Nations, and therefore I have said to you this morning: That the United Nations demand for development, peace, and justice. I therefore conclude, that fear must be removed from this term, and that it is because I really believe that we cannot endure it. That we cannot endure extreme violence, nor that we suffer the states which these women suffer every day. And it's true that we've made a great effort to tell the Basque People that we've been able to say that fear isn't in our place, that we've made this society powerful. But it's true, and the gift says in his report, that women live in fear. And that's not possible. Because it is impossible, because it happens, every day, every day, every woman in a greater or less degree. And we can't stand that. And I think at least this Chamber will agree with me, that it is the measure of priority. I've said it before, but I'll say it again: our daughters, our mothers, our aunts, are our friends, and I think it's very important that they agree. And I'm glad. For the rest? In other words, as you have done with me, I do not agree with other things. You'll explain to me the path through which you came to tell me that you see the hand of the baker in this compact of PNV and the Social Party have made. You'll tell me from where you've come from the paths and that the Basque Country is in the way too. I don't know where you see it. In any case, I would be very glad to see them, if they were so, and at last we had seen several claims and various desires of the Basque Country, even in consequence of this compact. But I don't know exactly where and where you've come from. I'll tell you one more thing, Mr. Alonso. All I've said today about peace and mutual life, all of which is thought by 85% of the Basque Autonomical People, and you can see them at the final Sozimeter. And that's what they think about peace and solidarity. And I won't let you down because I know you've read the Sozimeter and what he says about the inmates and all the other things. And what a rating he makes around your party. You're keeping a position on the marinity part. And I think the time has come here to show you another attitude... And our colleague Mirenguos has already mentioned that he had been for a moment in the previous law, when Arzie Quirogak changed a word and for 24 hours Mr. Sémper had another hope when he saw that Mr. And it wasn't that way. Changing seats for a while. And I think that practice will also get to the Poptular Party. For if we say here that we must all move from our fields and from our comfort fields, the Popular Party will be able to do so, unless the Basque Autonomy be left in this matter and in other matters perfect marginity. It happens to you that you have the power of the state, and you have the strength of the Spanish Government. And besides this, it is exercised not only in this, but often it is exercised by the Regulations of this Assembly of Laws, when they are repeated by the Constitution of the Court, and so many and neutralised measures taken in this legislature. Well, you may have that force, but I feel that this force is not a democratic one. I think you have to move. As we must all probably move, Mr. Sémper, I assure you, if the political sensibilities which we are all together in this house must be carried on in this field, we shall all have to move our position a little. But you too, I'm sure. And you'll have to conclude that a culture or a fracture of a ankle isn't terrorism and that you've been lawyers. And that it's very gravity to take that way because you're trying to place us in some of the places in the past. And we've come out of that past five years ago, and we're on another stage. And don't try to get back on the stage before you. Let's all work to go to another stage to take the Basque Country to another place, and we'll all live in peace and life in this town. Ours is a small land, but I'd say it's a great country. A land of seven lands for me, a great people, a land of language, culture, and great wisdom. And there are some men, their people, who have given that land before now, and a special way of passing through our history, a special culture, a special culture for politics, a special culture for manufactures. I think we have a lot of support and roots to reflect on the future in ourselves. And we should hold on to all of them. And the hands of the Basque People, as I have said, are open. In many cases, it wasn't possible at the moment, but you know we'll be ready for it these four years. Thank you all very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Next, to answer the legislatures, Mr. Urkullu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good evening to all of you. To tell you the truth, I haven't understood twenty-five minutes of the last half-hour at all. I thought, as we are in an inquest, that the criticisms of one's project ought to be answered and developed more by one's project, which is a choice, and not to discuss the project of one's rival. To tell you the truth, the last twenty-five minutes of this half-hour, I didn't quite understand. But, well, I'll stick to what I'm worth. And I'll confess to him, Mr. Alonso, and Mrs. Wide and Mrs. Collins, well, you're new at an inquest, we're new, I'm new for the second time. I welcome you in that sense because it's a second time for me to have an inquest. And you will know me, but I try to get as much as I can for each of you. Because it will not only be useful to-day, but because it can also be useful by looking at the future. And in this sense, I shall hereafter enter into so many designs as have been common to me, whether of the minority, or of self-organisation, or whether of vagueness, or even of declination, I shall hereafter enter into them. But every side is trying to answer what they're saying. Mr Alonso, I have collected, as I say, almost all the mentions you have made to my speech this morning, and also to what has been the agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. In addition to treating me as a CEO, I did not understand very well, because you congratulated me on the agreement, but at the same time said that you do not like it. In any case, he has had a rather acidic intervention, critical of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, as was to be expected in his approach, recognizable, of standing only as the defense of constitutionalism and the unique representative of constitutionalism... You've made an interpretation of the agreement... He has made constant criticisms of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, but I find it curious, because he made them look at me, and the criticisms were of the Socialist Party of Euskadi. He said things like we threw the People's Party out of the table, we excluded the People's Party... Well, I'm not going to go into those issues; yes as to what you've said about the defense of the sovereignist bet, starting also from a paper that was the presentation of nothing, or that may be the presentation of nothing, giving for the fact that we're going to a legally agreed disconnection, on slow fire, which is what you've come to say as well. I believe that, apart from what Mrs Iriarte has already said to you as regards the possible intervention that Mr Otegi may have had in putting his hand in the drafting of what was the agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, well, I do believe that there is a question, which is ETA and terrorism, where you are again confusing in a twist, interested way, what I have presented this morning. Because you have mixed the approach I make of the orderly end, and you have said "finally neither ordered nor negotiated." You return to an ancient discourse of what is victory or defeat. In order to achieve political, economic and social stability, it has also raised our minority situation and the experience of the past legislature in terms of the legislative timetable, legislative programme or strategic plans. Look, Mr Alonso, your fellow Members of the People's Party will be able to recognize you, even in a low and private voice, you will be able to recognize that in attitude, in parliamentary action, there are parliamentary strategies, and that we have also known the parliamentary strategies of a majority of the House vis-à-vis the minority represented by the party that supported the Government in the last legislature, which, having introduced bills, has taken more than a year and four months to clarify in this House. More than a year and four months, with parliamentary strategies also delaying discussions. Do not impute, Mr Barrio – which you know perfectly well –..., do not impute, Mr Barrio, to the inaction of the government. In any case, I do not like the model of the People's Party, which, with an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies in the last legislature, has promoted, more than dialogue, agreement or consensus, with an absolute majority, has promoted numerous decree-laws; decree-laws that have been approved in times of four months, without even being prepared for dialogue, much less what the debate in the Congress of Deputies might be. In any case, you raised a door to the debates that are on the streets, I think in relation to the initiative that, I believe, the People's Party has brought to this House on two occasions in relation to income guarantee income. Tell me if we have not debated here in this House, or tell your colleagues if we have not discussed the initiatives that have been put forward in this House. And, in any case, accept what may be wrong with me, from a minority to a majority: accept what may be a majority decision in this Parliament. I will then enter what may be... if it gives me time for the issues of independence, Spanish unity, political union, etc., or within Spain and within Europe. In any case, look, Mr Alonso, you have excluded yourself from the dialogue to form stability. You guys were self-excluded. No one's thrown them out. You have self-excluded yourself from the dialogue to shape stability. We have heard a speech, as I see it, anchored in the past. He didn't want to understand my speech. He didn't want to understand my speech, as I said before. He's still the same as in the campaign, and I honestly believe he's not understanding the new times. They were self-expulsion from dialogue and self-expulsion from the agreement in Euskadi, and it seems that in this dynamic they will continue in relation to what may be the needs that Euskadi has, yes in the political, economic or social order, but also in the order of self-government, of more and better self-government. As far as terrorism is concerned, I would also like to say in all moderation that, look, I do not think you have noticed that outside this House there are not two lions, there are not two lions, but a sculpture in tribute to the victims of terrorism and violence. And that here most of the parliamentary groups are also working for respect for the memory of the victims of terrorism and violence. And I do because you have identified my intervention in relation to ETA as not considering ETA as a terrorist organization. I invite you to read out my statement on that assessment. As for social policies, man, you as a People's Party, which have caused all the cuts in the Spanish State, Mr Alonso, are you coming to give us lessons for others? And you come to teach the Basque Nationalist Party lessons? And do they come to give lessons to the candidate for lehendakari, who has been lehendakari in the last legislature, who has managed to consolidate the essential services of social public policies? You claim an Euskadi in black, but in comparison with Spain there is no color. Look, I don't like comparisons with Spain, among other things because I have always argued that what Euskadi does is a contribution to the whole state, and therefore the data that can be summarized from the state's situation are those in which the Euskadi Autonomous Community itself is also involved or affected. I don't like those comparisons, therefore. I like comparisons that look at other countries better. But in any case, man, in innovation, in per capita income, in employment, in industry, in social assistance, in dropout rates, in human development index, I think that, if we go to a comparison with the whole state, our autonomous community, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, I think it is well valued. I also remind you that you changed the Constitution, you changed the Constitution to cut public spending and to limit the deficit. It was you, along with the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, who did it. We are all committed to the consequences of this decision promoted by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party at the time and by the People's Party. In any case, Mr Alonso, I take up your offer of cooperation, and we also share the challenge of demography and the challenge posed by the ageing of our society, and before that also the need to consider this issue as a matter of country, as I have done in my speech this morning. I have received several things from your interference, and will answer them later on with the others. But I think you mentioned it... I will leave to PSE's surrender, which is not exactly ours, that it was a negotiation between three, and that the community was invited to stone. And you've talked a lot about your involvement, since they're not on the deal. And this is exactly what this agreement seeks, agreement signed by the Social Party and by the Jelct Party of Euz. our agreement makes us all consider the whole of the community. And so you think it's not in that agreement. All of them, the whole society. And here, yes, you set up differences in the social model. And then you've proposed bad practices from the organization, clyentelism. Then you came in with health and education, as if it were health and education, most important problems or serious problems. I'm fine, Mrs. Wide, self-esteem. I also take advantage of other people's self-esteem. But one thing, and I think we have discussed it even throughout the campaign: I don't think it's good for adanism. The self-esteem is fine, but I don't think it's right. To think that things begin only with themselves, is beyond reality, Mrs. Wide. In any case, Mrs Zabala, and in the face of criticism also of the model of society and the social policy practices that the Basque Nationalist Party has been able to defend or those that are also contemplated in the agreement with the Socialist Party, I invite you to look for a community in our environment (in our environment, yes, yes, yes), to look for a community in our environment with greater social benefits and better public services. I invite you to look for it. Obviously we have to improve, of course we do, and that is what I said this morning. That's what I said this morning, ladies and gentlemen of Elkarrekin We may be gesticulating, yes, but I remind you that your party in Madrid..., I remind you that your party in Madrid poses the Basque model of social protection as an example, as an example, and objective of what should be done in Spain. And for the moment, ladies and gentlemen of Elkarrekin Podemos, who are federated or associated with Podemos España..., I don't know what the final decision will be about whether to become autonomous of Podemos España, but in any case I remind you that after a year and a half you have not yet done, in those places where you govern, any application of social public policies that can be comparable to that we do in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. I am sorry that I did not hear, Mrs Zabala, either a positive word or a positive word, not from the Government, but from Euskadi, about the situation in Euskadi. Not a positive word. Not a positive word from the country he lives in. Because you gave me the impression that you were involved or you had an intervention about a country that is not where we all live. Because it's not all black and white, but in the grey... There are also other ranges; in addition to whites, blacks and greys, there are ranges of colors. And I sincerely believe that, for example, in industry, trade, innovation support, SMEs, training, export support, of which you have not spoken, I think we also have the opportunity to speak as an autonomous reference community. In any case, as I have also told Mr Alonso, I take up his hand especially in self-government, since in relation to social policies he has not even looked at the bench of the Basque Nationalist Party, of the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group. He has made an offer to EH Bildu, he has made an offer to the Basque Socialist Party, obviously to the Popular Party nothing, but not to the Basque Nationalist Party. So, well, I pick up my hand as to a shared work in self-government. In the case of EH Collectors, well, transversal agreements, coming out of the circle, that's mentioned. Well, let me tell you, or let me give you a friend of yours, and it would be a friend of what you represent to your new policy. Look, it's not EH Collector, but as regards the patriotic left, to change the name for 20 years, or to change the image, is not the synonym for a new policy, or it's not the same with making a new policy. It's not even modernity, ma'am. I know you don't like it, but if it's in Euskakia, it's among the most advanced nations in the world. In this sense I want to emphasize, in comparison with Europe, that with raw internal product we are the 125th of Euska Autonomy. Or that we were in the index of human development among the first five countries. Or that we are among the first five countries in the field of equality. Or that our manufactures, compared to the industry of all Europe, have been reinforced by eight more points. Or that we are precursors in social society and social protection. And we're precursors in industrial modification, in the fourth industrial transformation. That the rating of four years before has been low, that it has been imperfect. Well, it's all right for you to say it and I understand, but that's not how the Basque society seems to understand it. At least, the society of euscal, compared with you, gave us the majority vote. You plan to get out of the Roundway. And I'd tell you, since we've been conducting a course of difficulties from the rest of us out of the circle all this time, in order to get the job, in order to maintain the social chorus, the patriot left has been in his circle for 30 years, he's been in his circle. If you've gone out, be happy, and welcome to the road, welcome to the road. And I do not understand, as a patriot, that Navarre and the North are exemplary, considering that the patrioticists of Navarre and Northern seek the progress and course we have made here in our German Autonomy. We have a new, non-continuous, ambitious and concrete project. I refer to the facts. And we have set ourselves new challenges and goals. There is no conformism in our attitude; on the contrary, we have acquired new and ambitious commitments in all areas. I quote them: In the economic field, new framework programme for employment and economic reactivation, with greater budget allocation (from 6.7 billion of the legislature passed to 8.500 from 2020), modernization of Lanbide, comprehensive plan for the Basque industry, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and autonomous, promotion of local trade, tourism and hospitality, competitive and sustainable energy policy, updating of the economic concert... I have developed it in this morning's intervention in the economic field. In the social field, commitment to strengthen the social services system, guarantee of social emergency aid, pact for the family and children, work equality programme, commitment to tackle energy poverty. In the field of human development and culture, proposals to boost and promote culture, Kultura Auzolanean, support for cultural industries and the new digital culture, social extension of the euskera through the strategic agenda, job placement, 20,000 young people with a first job experience, increase of the housing park for rent for young people. We have put forward a concrete project with concrete answers: seventy-two commitments in human development, social integration, equality and quality services; forty-three commitments in employment, reactivation, sustainability... We have made commitments to peace, coexistence and human rights. We need to definitely close the period of violence and terrorism of ETA, and do so in an orderly manner. We have also made a commitment to more and better self-government. And I reiterate my position on self-government, and most especially I address you, Mr Alonso: Euskadi needs more and better self-government. You, who much of the People's Party is an heir to the People's Alliance, joined the Statute ten years later, but you don't even respect it. They don't respect him because they don't. And in this sense it is not to blame anyone, it is not to blame Madrid, it is to respect, to respect the covenant. And defence of self-government, yes, in the face of the re-centralisation of the Spanish State and Government of the People's Party, Mr Alonso. Completing the Statute, I have claimed it, just as the People's Party stands here. Just as the People's Party stands here but does not do so in Spain. You don't even do it in Spain. We have talked about the self-government presentation to reach a consensus on a new statutory pact for the future, a plural and inclusive institutional agreement. I also said this morning: plural and inclusive, ratified by Basque society. And in self-government I want to highlight a relevant commitment: to move forward in the management of passive employment policies and the economic regime of Social Security. And we propose to the State the transfer of the management of the economic system of social security and the negotiation, within the Joint Commission on Transfers, as appropriate, of the corresponding agreements governing the said transfer. We have discussed this issue also in the last legislature, and we proposed management and we will do so in accordance with Article 18.2 and the fifth transitional provision of the Statute. On memory and coexistence I believe that there is a territory of consensus to be explored, but we have made clear commitments. We have made clear commitments, such as care for victims and memory. We have also put forward the new prison policy. We have raised the need for a critical reflection on the past, the orderly end of violence and the definitive dissolution of ETA. We have raised the extension of the culture of coexistence and commitment to human rights. We have a 2020 strategy to move forward with greater confidence. It is not the same, despite the criticisms that can be made common, it is not the same continuity as giving continuity to an effective strategy. And in that I do commit myself, to continue to pursue an effective strategy, with solid foundations to respond to the priority, which is to create more and better jobs; with solid foundations to guarantee social policies and public services; with solid foundations to improve the quality of health, education and social protection, Mrs Zabala, too. Our commitment is to build a fair and competitive country, and our goal is to extend the culture of the agreement. I said it this morning too, and I was saying it by looking at Mrs Iriarte and EH Bildu's bench: this government agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party is a country agreement. Any government agreement is also a country agreement. And our agreement is also to extend the agreement. We are aware of the need to broaden dialogue, expand consensus and expand the pact, and this is our will. And I reiterate that we share a plural vision of Basque society, that we share the need to ensure institutional stability for the country as a whole, that we share the need for openness to dialogue and agreement with the rest of political formations. Our will has been full, and so it will continue to be. But, look, we have forwarded the same ten-axis document to the four political parties. Mrs Iriarte has explained this also in relation to what was the answer, or not, that she has offered Podemos and the answer, or not, that the Basque Nationalist Party has offered EH Bildu. Well, I also have to say that the People's Party and Podemos did not want to respond; the People's Party and Podemos self-excluded from dialogue. I do not understand the People's Party's refusal to speak. I don't understand, when Rajoy insists on a new era of dialogue and agreement, I don't understand that they close again after five years of closure. I do not understand that the People's Party refuses to talk in this Parliament about issues that have great social support, such as economic policy, social policy, fiscal policy, peace or self-government, because we have also adopted agreements on this in the last parliamentary term. And, in relation to EH Bildu, EH Bildu claimed that society had placed them in opposition, and he said it publicly. He has said this privately in his meetings with the Basque Nationalist Party and has said it publicly. Then, the disposition to the agreement, the criticism for not having reached an agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party, when you, EH Bildu, have been the ones who publicly said that society had placed you in opposition... You were chosen, Mrs Maddalen Iriarte, as a candidate for the start of the negotiation. They have proposed as EH Bildu, in the process of talks with the Basque Nationalist Party, that we hope, that where we were going so quickly, when we had not even begun negotiations with the Basque Socialist Party. EH Bildu has spoken about his willingness to the country agreements, and he also asks me... And I have been very clear: a government agreement, I insist, is a country agreement. And for eighty years this country has been built primarily from the Government. I understand representative democracy, the democracy represented in this Parliament, the democracy that we represent the various political formations that we represent the plurality of Basque society. I am not willing to accept the game, emulating other strategies that have been followed in other environments, I am not willing to pose the game that if I am in the government I lead what may be a process, and if I am not in the government and I am in the opposition it has to be the society that leads any process. No, no, We also had that debate in the past with Mr Arraiz, who invited me to be like Mr Mas. I told you, I have my doubts as to where Mr. Mas is staying. EH Bildu defends the CUP model, agreements that do not guarantee stability ( Mrs Larion said in relation to self-government). It defends the CUP model, agreements that do not guarantee stability, I insist. The CUP model is not good for Euskadi, it is instability and is permanent tension. I don't share it in diagnosis, strategy, goals, or attitude. By the way, I believe that the Basque Nationalist Party is the only political party, the only political formation that on what is self-government and model of self-government..., has been the only political party, the only political formation that has submitted a concrete proposal, in January and October 2015, regarding what should be the model of self-government, to debate among all political formations and try to consensus it. Our hand is stretched out. We set up a government open to agreement and collaboration. We have found great coincidences, despite everything, in the ten axes that we have presented to all political parties, programmatic coincidences, and we have also found coincidences in concrete proposals. And I also stress, and I have said so this morning, this next parliamentary term or this parliamentary term that we have just started is fundamental, and I want to underline our coincidences: guaranteeing social policies without cuts; gradually improving quality in health and education; giving more and better priority to employment, with improved competitiveness and investment in innovation, in support of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed, in internationalisation of the economy, in support of trade, in favour of industry, in the new sectors... Mrs Larion, how could the Basque Nationalist Party and the previous Basque Government not have had an industrial policy! It seems to me that you need to review a lot of the sitting papers in this House in the last parliamentary term, and, in any case, of the strategic plans approved by the Basque Government and of the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Reactivation and Generation of Employment, signed between the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. Does not what we have said so many times about the four areas (investment, innovation, industry and internationalisation) sound to you as industrial policy? Where are the data of the new companies created? Where are the data on the evolution of the weight of the industry in the gross domestic product that you have criticized, Mrs Larrion? Consolidating peace, a new statutory pact, also commitment. Euskadi is on the right track; I know and recognize the problems, not the hidden ones; I confront them with realism and responsibility, with economic-budgetary viability and with future sustainability. I have referred to the effort of Basque society, and we have been growing above 3% and creating jobs for five quarters. In 2017 we can recover the gross domestic product we had before the crisis. However, we do not settle, we maintain the objective of recovering all jobs lost during the crisis. And our Government remains committed to realism, truth and work. I am grateful for the effort made by the Basque Socialist Party to share a programme and I thank you for your confidence, Mrs Mendia. We have a responsibility to show that the agreement between different people, the agreement between different people, in addition to being possible, is positive for society and for the future of our country. Today I've brought the exact bill to the legislature. If you will give me one minute more, Madam Congress, this project has a definite answer for Euskade's future. This project proposes proposals in four essential areas: human development, socialization, equality, and public services of quality; employment, economic revivion, and patience; life, and human rights; and more self-innovation, and better. We've all got shared challenges here. I'd like to have two degrees. On the one hand, we have to shut down once and for all the time of violence and terrorism, we must act orderlyly and move forward in co-operation. On the other hand, we are allowed to obtain a new political pact for the future of Euskade; a tacit and irretributive agreement with the state of Eukadin and the state. The interview and the agreement is our culture, and that's how it should be, our direction is that of all of us. Euskadi is on the right track. The Basque Society has made a singular effort, and we must all maintain this attitude, beginning with public institutions. During these four years together, we have to take the next step to the future. I believe and am engaged in this better future for Basques. All belief and commitment from realism, truth and work. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u21	Thank you, Mr. Urkullu. Passing the legislative teams to the reconnaissance station, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Urkullu, I actually see you with the skin getting thinner, thinner I think when I had treated you before and met you. And today is the investiture session, which you come here, tomorrow will win the vote and will be elected lehendakari again, and therefore it is an honor, almost reason to be happy and already have a certain capacity for lace. Some criticism has to fall on him, as it is natural. Well, that's how the legislature will be! We do the opposition and naturally criticize to build, but you have to have less thin skin, because if you go... Of course, I know it repeats, and that in the second legislature it already seems that one is – to say so colloquially – already a champion, but, come on, one must also have the same capacity to fit as the first day. Because you don't think we've made any such bitter criticisms. You are going to be our lehendakari and the representative of Euskadi, but Euskadi is so much more than you. And Euskadi is much more than you think, too. There are people who think differently, people who have another experience... We believe that this House must represent that, like all democratic chambers... There is no need, in that sense, to be afraid of the debate. If one does not accept his thesis or does not buy all the ideas that give him, then it is not that he is self-excluded. I mean, doesn't self-exclusion mean we all have to be nationalists? For we are not nationalists, and we are Basques, and we represent that position. And it is a necessary position of truth, which allows a dialectic, a dialogue that must naturally serve to advance. I therefore believe that you have to welcome with sportsmanship, with a good tone and with a desire to learn the debate that is taking place in this House, to have less fine skin, and I believe that I have to do the same. And I'll do it, I'll really try. But it says, "You don't want to talk." I, until dawn; whatever I need, whatever I need. Whatever it takes, but on specific topics, because we're not going to be talking here either... It is my first day in Parliament and it is true that I have seen a lot of roundabouts. I've seen it, and I didn't understand this very well. I knew the joke of the roundabout, of the people who arrived, said, Vitoria and got caught in a roundabout. I, since I'm from Vitoria, look, I don't get into a roundabout if I don't get out of it. And I recommend the same to you. And it seemed to me to understand that you don't want to get into the roundabout if you don't find out where it's going to go; that for you the roundabouts are to go through them, to give each one his step and so that it can work. But I did not understand very well, when they began to speak, that metaphor; now I realize: there are some who actually live around the same things permanently, and it is not what I have come to do here, nor what the People's Party wants to do. And I recommend you don't. I want to understand that you are not going to get into that roundabout if you do not know where to go out in a correct, orderly way and, of course, under the law and that principle of pragmatism which is so often invoked. And you already know where it leads to do something different than that. And of course I like Euskadi, and I see what the Basque Country is like, and that it lives in a much better situation than other communities in Spain. Much better, incomparably better. It has the capacity to provide services that others do not have. It has the capacity to finance aid and support for people who do not have it, which other areas of Spain, other regions of Europe do not have. We have a privileged starting position, and we have an open industry, capable of competing, which is a really good position to be able to lead, to get sparks out of it. Of course I like it, how I won't like Euskadi! Look at the health counselor. Man, I'm in a bit of a hurry if I have to criticize Basque health, if it seems very good to me! But we must also look for the points, the shortcomings that he has, that he knows them better than anyone and sees them every day, and of course his job is to see what is failing, what is missing, and where we can improve. Because you also have to think about what each brings. He says, "Euskadi is fine." Four years ago he was much better than the others too! The question is what we have done so that in these four years we can make even more progress, what we have done so that we do not conform, what we have done so that we do not get carried away by complacency and "how well we are, we are better than those next door". This is the question, and the question is, specifically you and your government, what you bring, what you can bring to make this happen. And it seems to me – and I think I agree with other groups in the House who are not suspected of sharing my ideas – that there have been difficulties in taking a leap forward; the difficulties that, it is true, stem from the very situation of economic crisis, extraordinary fiscal and financial difficulties that we have experienced over the past four years, and that we know very well. And it is true that that is a given situation. And difficulties that you have recognized here today! And you have acknowledged that there was a parliamentary strategy here to block the government option that prevented legislative initiatives from coming forward, and that only in the last leg of the legislature could make up a little bit the marker by passing eight laws, so that it would not remain that in a very scaly way, as a result of the management of your government's legislative initiative in this House. And I understand that you will have suffered a lot with that, and now you have already tied up the PSOE so that it does not mislead and, therefore, I cannot approve with other groups things that leave you in a situation of peremptory or necessity. And what else can I give you, than to come here and offer to give stability and that there is no reason for those programmes to fail! Now, if I offer myself so that I can do that job with you and collaborate, then I can ask you for some ambition! If you are ambitious you have a majority, and if you want to do it, we can do it. If you get into a roundabout with these people to turn around, then it's going to be impossible, because I'm from Vitoria, and those of Vitoria we don't die or perish in the roundabouts: we find the exit and throw forward. And therefore, I hope so, I hope those who come to Vitoria too. This was the old sketch of So, this is my will and the work that... I'm telling you in a very good tone, because besides, if it's a happy day for you tomorrow! [[Barres]] And I congratulated him and I told him. But man...! And Andoni Ortuzar... It's just that, in the negotiation, he won by score. For a shot! You've taken all the points out! Everything's coming! I had already read it in PNV documents, in language, in form, in content... In everything! And he has convinced them, and he has absolutely seduced the Basque Socialist Party. They don't care as long as we can be here talking about the Basque nation or the right to decide! Man, it's true that that leaves me with a role of representation of many people in the Basque Country who feel Basque Spanish, who loves the Constitution, and who wants us to do everything within the framework of that framework. That's what we are, and we're gonna stay the same. And by thinking our ideas and having our convictions we will not accept being excluded. No, because that is the highway and wide road, Mr Erkoreka, which leads to the future in Spain and Europe. That's the road we're on to the future. No, but listen to me for real, which is a nicer tone after all this day of negotiation and debate. I think we can do things together, and I think there's a risk path that will prevent us from doing things together. And I think it is an extraordinary opportunity for the Basque Country if it goes that way, and I am very concerned about the part of its agreement that refers to self-government, the way that I also believe this legislature could run, which I hope is not that, sincerely. That's why I think we're at a turning point. I wanted to tell Mrs. Iriarte, very briefly, because she talks about the fear women feel, and it's true, many are afraid... And of course, how not to feel sensitivity towards that fear and solidarity and to think about it, and to look at how we avoid it, and understand that there is a deep cause in an unequal structural conception of our society, which leads to those situations of domination from which fear emerges. And we agree on that, don't we? But I also want to tell you that I've met a lot of people with fear. I've been so scared. I've lived the fear. The fear that leads to silence, to silence; the fear that of course he wanted to lead to marginality, which is where his companions, who were not sensitive to fear, wanted to take us always, to marginality. But the idea of freedom, decency, the fight against terrorism, of calling things by their name and of defending the victims will never be marginal. Nor has it been when they tried, at gunpoint, to take us to marginality, nor will it be now. And that's my conviction. And we will continue to work to ensure that there is a memory of justice on this earth about the victims of terrorism and what happened here. And we will continue to work so that those who have to move are those who have been supporting terrorism for so many years and causing so much pain. So that those who have to move are you, and not those who have always defended freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u24	I believe that some of the groups in this House have been confused with debate, because today we have come to elect a candidate for lehendakari on the basis of the projects they have put forward. And I have already advanced the position of the Basque Socialists, which is that we are going to support the candidate Mr Urkullu. We will give you our support because the project you have presented today in this House includes issues that are essential for us to see this country, Euskadi, face the twenty-first century with guarantees of success; because it has a proposal armoring public services, extending social rights, betting on the full participation of women in all areas of life; and also because the agreement that we have sealed reaffirms the ethical foundations for building this country's coexistence in the coming years. And also because the updating of self-government is intended for the path of legality, but also for the path of the search for broad consensus. And the truth is that I have heard many criticisms of the agreement signed, but, surprisingly, then, when listening to the misconceptions of the proposals or ideas of each of the groups, and then also reading the proposals that each and every one of you has been recording these days that this House is open to proposals, so it turns out that you have recorded matters that are in the agreement. Issues of social aid, Lanbide reform, opportunities for the long-term unemployed, tax reform, the fight against fraud, the euskera, the guarantee of subjective rights, coexistence, self-government... Finally, what I have seen in this House today, so far, is a lot of pose, a lot of appearance, but then probably betrayed them by the subconscious. Because many of you have spent two months chattering on radios or TVs, gossiping with journalists, speculating about the deal... Just like the agreement we signed, it caught them a little bit against their contents. But I'm going to keep the positive, because I think it's going to be a positive legislature, and I'm going to keep the positive that, seeing the list of concerns, we have a lot in common. So I think we're getting off with a lot more than the thirty-seven parliamentarians we have. But, beyond tremors, I think we started with a good foot, with a paved ground, and I think we have succeeded those who have been able this week to settle the common ground, to set the priorities that this country has and to propose solutions, because it seems that that path also wants to follow others. Mrs. Irrez, look, we all have our part in an informal program, but then how our informal propositions are made initiative and reality, we have done this in the law which has passed: we made arrangements to get ahead of them. And there are many of them now in the signed agreement yesterday. And last time in the law, we had a good cooperation between our members and members of your party, and I hope in this legislation, too, that this cooperation should be working and achievements. And, Mrs. Larrion, the truth is that there are things that have surprised me in your group and in your speech. On the one hand, I have seen that EH Bildu has congratulated Donald Trump, and then, on the other hand, in his speech, I have heard him deny debt capacity as a way to make countercyclical policies. The truth is, I've been pretty sloppy, because I think that's much more of a right-wing policy. And if it seems, as you seem to see in your speech, that you are an admirer of the lehendakari Agirre, and you want to take it as an example, I would like to remind you how the 1936 Statute begins. And it begins by saying something like "according to the Constitution of the Republic and the present Statute...". So that is the way for the Statute and for the renewal of self-government. And, Mr Alonso, I hope that in the next few months you will be a little more located in Basque politics, because I have noticed you a little out of place. It does not surprise me either, coming from where it comes from, coming from a government that has cut us off from self-government, through decrees-laws every Friday, comes from leaving the high-speed train dead, comes from cutting public health and education, comes from threatening also with the reopening of Garoña, and comes mainly from a ministry that bears the name of Equality, but it is part of a government that has brought back women, in terms of equality, decades, in rights and in general terms. So (you present yourself as an alternative) let me doubt that it can be an alternative in many of these issues. And with regard to the term nation and some issues that have been in the debate throughout the day, I would like to make some clarifications. Because you have said, Mr Alonso, that you have read the PNV documents very carefully. Well, I would invite you to read also the documents of the Basque Socialist Party, which are registered in this House, our electoral program, but I would also invite you to reread the 1978 Constitution, which defines nationalities and regions. And also visit the website of the Council of Europe and read the texts on the term nation and its definition as a cultural nation. Because it must be remembered that there are more than two thousand nations in the world, but we did not reach two hundred states. Therefore, it is a reality. But, in any case, nominalist debates will not entangle us, because for us self-government is fundamentally a tool to improve the lives of citizens and to defend them, for example, against right-wing policies. And I believe that if there are in this country, as there are, different sensibilities, different identities, if we can find a common ground where we can make a turning point, improve and deepen our self-government, so that the life of Basques and Basques is better, we can have new tools to improve our self-government, to make new policies, to shield the rights we have gained in recent years, for I believe that, if that term is valid for finding that common ground, I believe it is precisely in the 1978 Constitution. Not because I say it, but because it is also said by the Constitutional and because a distinguished colleague of his party, Manuel Fraga, also identified, there at the constituent time, nationality and nation in the constitutional debate. And with regard to the right to decide, we Socialists are where we have always been. We are in favour of consultations that are legal and where citizens know above all the consequences of their decision. Because we also have recent dramatic examples: I have just read the approximate cost they calculate in the UK government that has Brexit. Well, we want agreements that politicians have reached before. That's what politicians are for, that's our obligation: to look for agreements, to look for common ground, rather than to throw into trouble. We do not have to transfer the problems to the citizenry, but we have to be able to make proposals to solve the problems of the people. And I believe that this is all going to be discussed in this Parliament. We have already spoken in the last parliamentary term, Mr Alonso, in the speech, we have spoken of everything: self-government inwards, outwards, the right to decide, independence... Finally, the groups of the House, with full freedom, as it cannot be otherwise in democracy, and especially now that we are in the absence of violence at last, we can speak freely of everything. And that, then, is well known: the Socialists will never support any proposal that divides this society. And you were talking about the weakness of the Socialist Party against nationalism. That must have happened also when Mr. Aznar spoke Catalan in privacy, or when Mr. Arzalluz said he had achieved more in fifteen days with Mr. Aznar than in eleven with Mr. Felipe González... Anyway, or when Mr Aznar too had that brilliant definition of the Basque national liberation movement, didn't he? I believe that the Basque socialists have never lowered their heads, nor when they tried to end and divide Basque society... I don't think you're doing Spain a favor now, considering how you've left the state of Catalonia breaking... And that has been the fruit of your policy, or your non-policy, I would say. So I hope they're re-thinking. And, Mrs Zabala, do not despise the citizenship that we represent the other sixty-four parliamentarians of the House. You have stood in the sole voice of this House, and that seems to me to be very dangerous. I hope you have new ideas, new contributions to this Parliament. He has offered to present socialist proposals. Well, I'm glad we'll probably meet. Many of them are included in the government agreement, so it will certainly be very fruitful, and, as I say, I think it is a good omen for this beginning legislature. [[Déjeme un poquito de tempo, avale?]] From today we will decide on the future of Euskadi. We are not going to talk about the next four years, we are going to talk about the next generation, and all groups are called upon to do so. This November 23rd we will each vote on what we consider, but in the coming weeks we will decide on many things. We will decide on the quality of employment, for example, on the role we want women to play, on the fight against fraud (against the public prosecutor and against whom social aid can be committed), on how we make sure that no one is left out of the solidarity they need, or on how we bring Euskadi back to the head of Europe in innovation, or on how our workers recover rights and get away from precariousness, or on how we recover those who have been unemployed for more than two years. We will decide which instruments of self-government, which competences we want to develop to make all that possible. We will decide whether we want to build all of this on irrefutable ethical grounds, which deny any horror of the past. All that's what we're going to decide from tomorrow. And no one is left, no one in this House is left. We're all on that path. And the important thing is that every parliamentarian, every group, knows how much he has to contribute and not how much he has to prevent. I think we're changing cycles today. It's the socialist conviction. Not because we are going to share government responsibilities, but because it is the first time in the history of the Basques that we find different parties that we recognize our differences, as a previous step to finding a project together without there being a threat, not a risk of bomb or shooting in this country. We have an unprecedented opportunity. It is not to give continuity to anything; it is to try to make a leap into the future, to make policy and to make it in this Parliament. Today many look at us from outside of Euskadi. Until recently they looked at us for the terror that shook us, and today they do so because we have been able to find a Basque way to dialogue and encounter. So let's see if we're able, of all people, to take advantage of it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Next to them the representatives of the Podemos, the representatives of Hernandez, and the lords of Martínez, will take the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u26	Good afternoon. I regret that today's plurality with respect to the Government of the Lehendakari Agirre in the 36th was not taken into account a few months ago, when the official anniversary events were held, and it was ignored precisely apart from that plurality: the Republican Left, the ANV and my own party, the Communist Party. In any case, and given the candidatures presented today, I would like to say that from the parliamentary group, the part that we represent to Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita, from the day after the elections, we consider that we wanted to build the alternative to the Basque Nationalist Party. We placed EH Bildu and the Socialist Party that day, because, together with the coalition we are part of, we have enough parliamentary majority to put forward an alternative on the left. Unfortunately, neither of the two forces we addressed picked up our glove at that time, and, on the contrary, they preferred to try to arm agreements with the Basque Nationalist Party. Finally, they present a government agreement by which, in our opinion, the Socialist Party has decided to be a PNV crutch instead of looking for those agreements on the left. In Madrid they facilitate the Government to the People's Party, and in Euskadi to the Basque Nationalist Party. The thing, in our opinion, is to look to the right and not to your left. We will not support, as has already been said, the candidacy of Iñigo Urkullu, because we do not share his country model. We do not share his country model based on unfair taxation, where the main tax burden continues to fall on the more than punished working class. We do not share its model of outsourcing of public services, which entails greater spending and worse working conditions for workers. We do not share something as important as the educational model, which places Euskadi as the autonomous community that spends the most money proportionally on subsidizing private education. It is not enough, for us, to put the Basque name on things, but we believe it has to be in this public case, free of charge and of quality. And, of course, we do not share a Euskadi where, with skills such as labour inspection, job insecurity is rampant in its breadth, where thousands of workers suffer painful working conditions and exhausting days. I'm sorry that you think we're saying everything in negative. I just downloaded trucks fifty-five hours a week for nine hundred euros here on my land in Euskadi. Perhaps that is why we emphasize negative things, because we come from our own reality. I have to say that we would have liked EH Bildu to have made clear from the outset what we said that day that it is not possible to reach governance agreements with the PNV if the contents of those agreements are to be in favour of the working social majority. We would have preferred them to have picked up from the beginning the challenge we had raised from Ezker Anitza to build that alternative to the Nationalist Party. We tell you that we are glad that you are now clearly in front of Mr Urkullu. In the construction of that alternative from the left we can certainly find ourselves, and we will do it here and we will do it on the street, where, by the way, I believe that in many things we have already met for years. We will find ourselves in left-wing policies, we will find ourselves in social policies, and yes, also, of course, in the right to decide. You suppose to build independence, and we, of course, to try to build the third republic. However, we believe that it is not acceptable that, after almost two months of trying to reach an understanding with the Basque Nationalist Party, they would tell us, in the absence of a few days for the investiture, that, since they have not been agreed with them, we now have to give them our vote. And the document they handed us did not ask us to support them in the investiture. We were asked to work for these four years, and we understood that at least. We are willing, as I say, to work with you on the left, but we are not going to follow anyone. Finally, I would like to address the Socialist Party. You have preferred to support the nationalist Government, rather than to place yourself in that alternative that we are proposing. We are already used to it: you are those of entry into NATO, and those of yes to the monarchy. In any case, we would have preferred to meet you in that alternative construction to the government of the Basque Nationalist Party. The parliamentarians of Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita, and the whole coalition of which we are part, will work with programmatic content at the service of the working social majority. Around that is where we will meet or confront the rest of Parliamentarians. Therefore, our position today is to confront and not support Iñigo Urkullu's candidacy for lehendakari, and to start building the progressive alternative for Euskadi that has not yet been built in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u28	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature. We've been here for several hours now in office and listening to the presidents' projects and listening to the opinions of the parliamentary groups. And, to tell you the truth, we come up here again with great disappointment. In the end, though Mr. Egibar says it's not a day to answer, our job is to ask questions today, our job is to discuss your projects today, it's to criticize your projects and receive answers. And that's what we're looking for here today and that's what we're gonna do again. In the end, it is not only that we want answers, but even the citizens want answers about the agreement you've made these days. And what happened today? Now that we have come here, and have made an agreement, your speech also has been vain. No answer, no concretion. We've found several good words that can be developed by so many projects, but we haven't found any concretions. And people in the street, people who need people who are forced, need temporary responses, they need temporary responses and concretion responses. That's what we're talking about again. Your agreement has two axes: the first to say nothing, the absence, and the second to block a preponderant majority which exists here in this legislature. Your agreement has these two objectives: to show us a series of vague questions that do not lead anywhere unless they are developed in depth, and to block a progressive majority that, we insist, exists in this Parliament of thirty-eight Members of Parliament. We must recognise that at least one of the parties has brought us a project in which they concretely set out a series of measures in which we believe we will be able to meet during this parliamentary term. And even if you are waiting for that document, because we are working on it in depth so that we can develop very specific issues that we can bring to Parliament as soon as possible, of course you will receive it. Therefore, as I see that it will be difficult for us to obtain information, I will insist a little more, and I hope that Mr Egibar, whose ability to respond is already well known, will give us more concrete answers about the project you have brought here today. The first question, which is true that it is of a kind a little more personal and equal, does not need to answer anything, is who has put the name to the agreement? Because so much "very", so much "very", and so much "very and very" reminds us more of a "good, nice and cheap", which is what we have met, only without the "good" and without the "good". But, once asked this, let's get into what really concerns the citizenry. Employment. Employment is the biggest concern of Basque citizens, it is one of the big issues that have come out here today, and one of the big issues that we are going to have to address in this legislature. Employment, not unemployment, because in the end what worries people is not so much not finding work, but the work they find keeps them in poverty, keeps them in exclusion and does not guarantee them basic living rights. You plan that we will lower (which is going to lower this government) the unemployment at lower rates of 10%. In what way? By quality jobs, full-time jobs, fixed jobs? Or will they simply measure by weight how many jobs that perpetuate the precarious have been created, and with that they are satisfied? By weight, like most of the numbers that appear in your agreement? You also bet on a specific youth employment plan. But are we also going to bet on the return of young people who have emigrated for economic reasons? Or will you be able to continue to deny that even such a phenomenon does not exist, or even invite them to leave? We also have a question for the Socialist Party, do not think they will get away with it. They call for the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security. Okay, but with or without breaking the one-size-fits-all box? Because I think that's going to be a few contradictions for you! They bet on attracting foreign investment projects: with or without conditions of permanence? They talk about industrial land offers at competitive prices; they also talk about promoting the development of strategic industrial projects. Are you talking about covert subsidies to big capital? Don't you remember this a little bit about what happened in Arcelor? And so, one after another, we could continue to list thousands and thousands of unknowns raised in this agreement. And look, we've only talked about a very short part, we've talked about employment, and although I have a few prepared parts, I'm going to take a minute and a half more, but it's not going to give me anything I wanted to put forward. We have missed something quite: the word "public". You're talking about a Basque law of education. A Basque law of education, or what we need is a Basque law of public education? A Basque law of public education that guarantees equal access for all people at the same level of education. They talk about encouraging specific measures to correct the difference between the network of public centres and the network of concerted centres in the formation of this language. Is it a difference, or a consequence of a misdistribution of funds, that prejudges the concerted in front of the public? I'll finish it right away. I have seen a great victim in this agreement: for the rest, there is hardly any contempt about the eucalyptus. And what about the administrative eucature profiles? What's going on with Mrs. Mountain criticism? What is the matter with the shameful use of the eucalyptic which is our language made by the lady, what is the matter with it? In the campaign they were all right with voters, but now we see that at least now you've managed to get away from this agreement. I'm out of time. It is plain, Mr. Urkullu, that many things do not yet appear in this agreement, and that we need many answers to find out at least what will happen in this law. So I hope you've got some answers to your next round, or at least to clear up more in the next few months about your agreement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u29	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. From EH collect, Mrs. problemaon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u30	Good afternoon. Mr. Egibar, your defense, the defense of the Urkullu, has been the management of what a administrator would have done. And your words have confirmed the impression we have of many, and it is that the offer to this people is inaccurate. "Consejero delegado," said Mr. Alonso, and, unfortunately, your attitude has gone away. Mr. Urkullu, you don't understand what Mrs. Irriart did. Of course, because he made a political speech. [[Barres]] But don't worry, I'll try to understand the language I use in business. You mentioned the new policy and modernity. That's what we've been trying to make Gaste, in this institution, 200 yards away, where the interests of the people have been placed above the interests of political groups, where the second force has left the third force to take a step, and obtain the mayor to defend the interests of the people. That's the new policy. It's hard for me to imagine that the Eurcid Party has the second one to vote for the third. And if it costs me, I think much more to the people of this country. But I believe in the new policy, and I also believe that this new policy, not only we, can be closer to it, but why not. You mentioned the EAE indexes are high and we're on the level. I didn't discuss those indexes. On the contrary, what I've examined was a historic series, and I've seen where we were and where we are. That's what I've been talking about. In this historic series, we're going back. And this is the time not to be strong in this romance. I'm a Gastine too, like Mr. Alonso, and I was going to make the same joke myself. It may even be said that it is regrettable to say that the capital stage is, considering how many romances we have. And there may be a problem. But I don't think he's there. It's not time to fortify myself in the romance. And probably, I think, we'd like to be similar in the past. Is there a way to force the job? That's what we want. Powering industrial sector? That's what we want. Strengthening research and development? That's what we want. Don't keep up, don't go back, keep going. That's what we agree with. We want an advanced country, and that's why we're here to do it. But we'll be a little older and fairer people. And, Mr. Urkullu, you've been speaking self-esteem with Mrs. Wide. And, Dede Luego, your self-esteem is so high. Well, did all this town has gone on because of the Red Munchon? I don't think so. We've done it all together. How did he get back on the record? On the street. And how did equality survive? Nice to meet you. Society is often more advanced than we are. And I must also say that it was a pesar del PNV which we have so often advanced. But, well, sometimes a pesar nuntro. And, just as it must be distinguished that the progress of the country is not only due to the Basque Government, it must also be distinguished the role of reality. That you write in an "industrial policy" document doesn't make it real. Having aid programmes does not mean that there is an R & D+i policy. And giving us a lot of program names doesn't mean there's a project behind it. And here there is a lack of project and a lack of politics. Because you said it: "Where are the results of internationalization...?". Where are they? We never see the results! And there are results. Here we will not deny that we are absolutely all capable of doing things, and that this Government has done things, but has not done enough. That's what we're saying about self-critics, but that's what we need to do. But self-critic, as we must all do, and as we must first do in another way. And I missed that. In order to go on research and development, we must review, but to learn from our errors we do not plan something else. And we think that we have to do this because EH Collect wants an advanced town and we're surprised that you too. And we also believe that we agree, not one person, or a match, have all the answers, and we don't have all of them. And our problems and challenges before us are too great to think that we are each one of us, or that we are the only one of us. We don't think that either. And therefore in education, in health, in social life, because they care much for us, and want to go for this people, we want to put all our proposals on the table with the rest of them. And we have a lot to do in the economy. And I've had to confess one thing, Mr. Egibar. When you read it, I understood you perfectly, but then you'll forgive me for many sentences, and I can't understand you. I understand Mr. Urkullu, but I don't understand you in economics. And we've got a lot to do in the industry too. And even here, we haven't all the answers. And not us, political groups. We have to do politics here with the sector, together with the companies, along with the unions, and with the society. I had been told that Mr Egibar is a professor of the left abertzale, in the history of the left abertzale, but I see that he has also had an advanced student in Mr Urkullu. But I have to tell you something: you have to adapt to reality. Train someone in modern history, on broad fronts, and who is also trained in Euskal Herria Bildu. Because in peace and coexistence I, of course, commented that the trenches had to be left, and I was positively appreciative of the approach they were taking in the morning, but this afternoon they have agreed to come back. We say again who we are, who you are, where we are... And here too, also here society has taken the lead, fortunately, and they perceive – and say so in the Sociometer – that the parties are an obstacle in this advance. And then, even if you are going to ascribe the merit (it doesn't matter, if we make progress), but go back to the morning speech. Compañeros and compañeras de Podemos, of course we will meet, because here it is possible, because we also want to build the Basque Republic. And I think there's a lot more chance that we'll make the Basque Republic than the third republic you want, but we wouldn't have any problem accompanying you. They talk about programmatic content, and that's why I have a question too. Because Nagua Alba wrote: "We were many and many who celebrated that 18th seat and the possibilities it opened. Let us not miss this opportunity." Mr. Martinez, I have a question: what part, what part, what part did you not like? What part does it make that they are going to have the same attitude towards the neoliberal project presented to us by Mr Urkullu and the advanced and left-wing project presented to us by Mrs Iriarte? What part didn't you like? Feminism? The pension approach? What part? How will you be able to justify that the possibilities that were opened up have missed them, contrary to what you wrote? And we'll have to talk a little bit about jumps. You put forward a proposal in the self-government paper, he told us. And they were the only ones! Wow! Me, what I see is that they were the only ones who promised a consultation in 2015 and did not fulfill it. That they were the only ones who submitted a proposal, you said; that they were the only ones who submitted a proposal in the self-government presentation. Let me read this, see what it says: "Autogobernuari buruzko Lantaldeari. One Urruzuno Urresti Euskal Herria Bildu tadeko bozeramaileak, indarrean dagoen Erregelamenduareen babesean, ondorengo proposemena aurkezten du Autogobernuari buruzko Lantaldean. Gasteizen, 2016ko urriaren 12years". Hemen dago. That they were the only ones? This too is confused, Mr Urkullu, and I think you are confused because I don't think you wanted to lie. When you were talking about the CUP model, when you were talking about the CUP model, did you read this? Where is he in this case, when he said they were the only ones, his principle of reality? Where is he? And I think your problem has verbalized it, when you said, "What did More look like?". You know, I don't care what More looked like. I care about democracy in Catalonia. That's what I care about. And perhaps that is one of the problems, Mr Urkullu: that you are more concerned about what happens to you than what happens to this people. Mr. Egiebar, from 30 minutes, you've only offered a minute to the political state, and I'm not surprised. You don't have much more to say with that suggestion. Mendia anderea, indeed, the lehendakari Agirre started from what he has read to us, and he got – and that is what I said – from that text, to take us almost to a state. That's exactly what I've given the lehendakari Agirre credit for. It was precisely there, and that is why I will close again also remembering precisely the lehendakari Agirre, that he did get exiled by putting the democratic principle above that of the legality imposed at that time by that fascist coup d'état of General Franco. Will you accept, Mr Urkullu, that this country is a subordinate in the Spanish State? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u31	Thank you, ma'am. Next, the Eucus patriots represent the group. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u32	They tell me I'm not very humble, but you don't stay behind, damn it! Same proportion or more! But now you've made a mistake. I don't know what the president has said, but the president, of course, knows that the Popular Party, theUPyD, the Social Party, you and we also introduced our proposal. But the party, and the party alone, did another exercise, one exercise that our party made. And there was one of the others, a sort of synthesis of everyone's. And you know what happened? We had a meeting withUPyD, at least, with the socialists, with the public, with the rest of us, and that we couldn't have a meeting with you. It wasn't possible, why Starter Arrie couldn't imagine a meeting with us in that context at that moment. And we said to him: "Well, we'll give you the text in your room." And we gave him up because he didn't want any pictures, and we respected him. But each one had his own document in advance. So a little more humility, and even more information, because that was what it was. And let the Usurans have his file today. I've been called in Parliament all the time, but they never told me I've made a tactical speech. I don't know what part of the economy or what explanation you haven't understood. Why you know better about economic activity than I do the development of different institutions, the development of our public and private companies, and you know all the works and projects that have been made, and I confess your knowledge. But I think there's a little thing about showing off. So calm down. At least you'll have time to find a center on one side and the other, among all of us. The circle has been repeated. This is from the preceding law, which is the seminars and I have closed down. Then it's shown that you haven't followed the previous debates or followed them from a distance, and our debate was the round of demands. and the first example was, that some come into the circle, and are blinded; and that their idea is "I am everything, but I am the left and I must go to the left." And going left and turning left. All rounds, at least, are taken from the left here. And you have to go out, and you have to move forward. So that there's no doubt, if anyone has that kind of difficulty, maneuver approach to the PNV, and take you out of the roundabout quietly. [[Barres]] And you have freeway, freeway where you want to go, with a guarantee: that we will never take anyone to a dead end. That's the reality. Because he was telling me we can, about the job. I have quoted an example from last week, also from Mrs Franco, your Member, who admits that the autonomous community can be consulted, but does not decide on the SMI. And, of course, when we're talking about the SMI, we're saying a lot of things. If in Holland it is 1,500, in Belgium it is 1,500, in Germany it is 1,400, and we have the SMI in 655, and we are talking about a differential of only forty euros with basic income, it is obvious that we are disincentives to work. And what needs to be done is to gradually increase the SMI, so that with the corresponding differential... Because, of course, no, no... You do this to me, but in Germany, if the interprofessional minimum wage is 1,500, the income is 330. And we're not saying... Since everything is referred to with the SMI, we say that we have to change the SMI, we have to go up progressively. But, of course, centrality tells you and forces you to deny the position. That's what happens. Empty example. That's right. It happened last week. In addition, the allegation was that we were going to engage in social dumping. So, we're all allowed to be equal to the low, but we don't want to be equal to the high. Why can't you match the rise? Because the situation in Andalusia or Extremadura is different. Obviously! So each autonomous community has the competence to decide the SMI! That's what we said, and we're denied by Podemos. Die que yo no he walado del statuses. It's true I wanted to spend more time with him. But there's no doubt about the heights. When we had a meeting with EH Collect, we sent them a document first. And as answered, they brought another document. I think they were both productive. And Maddalen said: "Can we get any breakfast? "I don't know. And I said: "Yes, it can be done." You asked him then at the meeting. I said: "Yes. And if you want to avoid any more peigros, go back to the party with that document signed." Do you want to commit the party? Well, give it back signed. The Party has no limit because it's a Socialist Party that Orcura explained yesterday, says the document. And reference, in this parliament, we've talked a lot about this subject. And besides, we think that, considering the composition of our days, Podemos, you and I are betting on the right to decide. The definition will be involved in the way each sees it, the way each sees it. But if there is a firm plan here for all of us, it is clear that if we think of 57 in the same manner from these 75 seats, that is to say, 66% of this legislature, we see that a democratic obligation is to be developed, and that it must be developed. That from there arises an obligation and a democratic imperative, to have to develop the concept of the right to decide! And the Basque Nationalist Party isn't going to do it because someone tells it. No, no! The Basque Nationalist Party will lead it, as it has on other occasions, by the way. Because here we have talked about the chair of history of the abertzale left, but, look, at some point in this Parliament there was a committee of self-government also, in which they were present, participated Oskar Matute, Rafa Larreina, and by the Basque Nationalist Party Elixabete Piñol and myself, and the Socialist Party had Jesus Eguiguren as representative, and the left abertzale Arnaldo Otegi. And during many sessions, many sessions, we observed that, of course, there was no pro-active interest on the part of Mr Eguiguren and Mr Arnaldo Otegi. And at that time (so you have to have a little knowledge of history) there prevailed another scheme, another scheme of relationship. The PNV did not matter at all, it was not necessary at all in a political discussion of the development of the right to decide. Right to decide? Why the PNV, if the key to the right to decide and that of the prisons are in the hands of the Socialist Party of Zapatero! That was the scheme. Bilaterality was assumed there: I do business directly; the PNV does not serve me at all. So it is – if you want, I can pass you – that you have an interview with Mr Arnaldo Otegi – who did not want to take it out, but since you start to sugar... –: "We prefer the PSOE to rule over the PNV"; "I am closer to the theses of Jesus Eguiguren, which are a good script for dialogue, than to the philosophy of the Ibarretxe Plan". That's what happened, and here we had a vote. And Zapatero, who was in Doñana on December 30, 2004, received information, news, saying "Quiet, it doesn't come out." Apparently, some socialist passed it on to him. And the left abertzale, as he did not know how to position himself on the so-called plan or project, what did he do?: three votes in favour, three against, and the seventh was fled, which was Urrutikoetxea. [[Berber]] That's the story. So, what I'm saying is, if we're gonna act loyally... Yeah, yeah. Sure, so you don't forget! (Berbotsa)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u33	Please be quiet. Go on, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u34	Agunos les moesta la verdadand! Klaro, everything is new and the world starts with me, right? No. The world is wide, it is numerous, and time is running, and so is it in this country of ours. But I don't want to forget what I'm saying. About the right to make up my mind, I said what I have to say. And when the legislative committee is organized we'll see each other and see what each of us is planning. What I mean is what happened to us at that time. It's true that the situation was different, but that's what happened to us. And it wasn't just me, because we were Elixabet Piñol, Oskar Matute and Rafarein. And so we stopped and couldn't believe what was going on. So it's history, but you can learn from history. Then, looking ahead, I think that after today's performance, one, the President, is going to make sure that ZUGkullu will be here again. And there's one between the agreements that we've done with the Social Party. And new agreements may also be made, they may be made, to overcome all the challenges of this people, and all the challenges which are laid before us with propriety and propriety. And that's what we need deals, big deals. The President has no problem with sharing his leadership, no problem with political parties or institutions. And in euphoric time the future is at stake. From tomorrow I think as I do now, and the people will see it, and I think they will approve of it again, from tomorrow on, the President of the Urkullu. This gauza beats nahi nuke, txaloak tarteko. Ez dakit gaurkoa izan behar duen azkena, baina niri benetan, will still be politically incorrect, but seems very Spanish to me. [[Laughing and clapping]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u35	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. The discussion is over and we'll stop the meeting for ten minutes. In ten minutes, we'll whistle and go to the vote. It was six o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-eight. At seven o'clock in the afternoon, he resumed his bulldog.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u36	We'll go back to the Union. The vote for Article 165 of the Rule will be made. This vote, according to article 97, will be a precedent, according to the name. That is to say, every member of the legislature, when he speaks of his name, will say the name of one of the candidates presented to him, or say he will abstain from it. We'll figure out where the number starts. [[Pause]] The first secretary at the table has called the members of the Parliament to vote from Mrs. Gorospe Elkano. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of Mr. Urkullu Renteria, 37; Irrez, Mrs. Okiñena, 18; Abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u37	So since the majority has not succeeded, we will make the second vote tomorrow morning, November 24th, at ten o'clock in the morning. The meeting is simply suspended. It was seven o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen. It was ten o'clock in the morning, November 24, that the meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u38	Good morning, everyone. Please take each of you positions. Let's make a second vote for the president. First, we'll determine which congress we're going to begin with. The first secretary at the table has contacted the members of the Parliament to vote with Mr. Submareas. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of Mr. Urkullu Renteria, 37; Irrez, Mrs. Okiñena, 18; Abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u39	So, uh, y'all named Mr. Urkullu Renteria. Congratulations, Mr. President. [[Applause]] Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I mean before society that there is no greater honor in this country than to be the President. That's why he wants to thank the whole town. It's a good thing we're doing this Congress that represents society. It's a good thing I've had your full confidence in the Eucus Party all the time. Thank God for the Social Party's protection. I'm glad you're in favor of this town, you're on behalf of everybody and all the crews. Thank the family for always having me. 'Humbly report, sir, the interview and the agreement will be indispensable in this new legislation.' It is a manifold Euskade, and this multiplicity is reflected here. We need everyone's contribution to get us out of this town. It's a deal that proves diversity and we're always on the side of the agreement. It's vital, yes, but it's also our will. To be elected lehendakari of Euskadi is the highest honor. I am grateful to Basque society and its plural political representation in this Parliament. I only have words of thanks. Thanks to this House from which I am elected lehendakari; to the Basque Nationalist Party, which has always given me all confidence; to the Basque Socialist Party, which, re-editing the experience of eighty years ago and thirty years ago, has decided to share program and government. I reiterate my thanks to the Basque Government: advisors and advisors, all their teams, have done your best always and at all times for our country. Thanks to my family, always understanding, love, support... With all humility, I acknowledge that dialogue and agreement will be essential for this legislature. Euskadi is a plural society, and collaboration is part of our culture. Today I reaffirm my commitment to a shared future project for Euskadi; a project of modernization and openness, guaranteeing cohesion, solidarity and social integration; a project based on collaboration. Our priority is to grow, create more and better jobs, help create more and better jobs; ensure essential social policies and public services; consolidate social and political coexistence after the end of violence; agree a new future statutory pact for Euskadi. We face four fundamental years. Our hand is stretched out to join forces in the service of Euskadi. We have presented a complete and concrete programme at the service of all Basque society; I pledge faithfully to fulfil our mandate, our programme. We'll fill the power. We have four important years ahead of us. We've presented a solid and specific program, but we know we need all the strength to overcome future challenges. We have an open program for it to continue from Euskaca. That's our goal and responsibility. I'm moving on from Euskaki. Euskadi our course and our future. So let's take care of what we love. Thank you all, and let's get to work together, to work in the neighbourhood. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-11-23.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Congratulations again. And before the meeting's over, I'll let you know that the full staff meeting will be held in Guernica on the 26th of November, 12 o'clock. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was ten-fifteen in the morning.
