ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Please, if you sit down to each other's places, the plen is about to begin, que va a empezar elpleno. First point in theme list: "The bill of law, in order to change the law which is approved by the General Prev. 2016th of Euscal Autonomia Er-Hordi." Discipline and final resolution. He's got the word to introduce the bill. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u1	The President of the Parliament, Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, all good days. Before I present the bill of law in our hands, I would like to show you my joy, my care, and respect in my first scene in front of the Basque Act. By the way, I greet you and offer you my full cooperation for this legislation. In fact, the legislative sphere is in part familiar to me; As you know, I've worked in Congress for many years, and therefore I'm aware that, as a member of Madrid, he owes me, as a board of tax and economics, to this whole meeting and the appropriate committee. My first occurrence must have been to account for the lines of my four year's work in front of this Chamber, but there are times when natural and legal times do not correspond, and this is precisely one of these cases. So I'm sorry to have this activity in some way unusually unusual, as well as because it's a situation of haste. In the presentation that this initiative would like to refer primarily to three aspects. First, the reasons for the Government's preparation and approval of such a statement. Secondly, the specific content of the bill before the House. Finally, the procedure followed for its adoption, i.e. for its single reading directly before the plenary. As you are all well aware, Article 10 of Law 9/2015 of 23 December, approving the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the financial year 2016, sets the ceiling for the long-term indebtedness of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. This limitation of indebtedness during the financial year 2016 was established in accordance with the tax collection forecasts agreed for that year, approved by the Basque Finance Council at its meeting of 14 October 2015; and with the agreements reached also on stability between the State Administration and the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, under the provisions of the Law on Economic Concertation, which set as the deficit target for the financial year 2016 0,3 % of the GDP of the Autonomous Community. These forecasts were consistent with the fiscal consolidation path set by the Council of the European Union in 2013, although later, and as you know, it was modified in August 2016, revising the scenario for the period 2016-2018. The revision of the fiscal consolidation path set by the Council of the European Union has, in turn, made it possible to review the budgetary stability, public deficit and public debt objectives of the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration in order to bring them into line with the new decision of the Council of the European Union. On the other hand, the forecast for the closure of the tax collection agreed for the year 2016, approved by the Basque Finance Council at its meeting on 14 October this year, has estimated a reduction of 473 million euros compared to the one originally planned in October last year. As a result, the pre-liquidation of contributions from outlaws, referred to in Article 23 of the methodology contained in Law 2/2007 of 27 March, has estimated a figure slightly lower than that considered in the budgeted revenue in 2016. Both circumstances, both the lower income expected from the contributions of the outlaws and the widening of the deficit margin agreed between the Basque Autonomous Community and the State Administration, advise and justify increasing the use of long-term debt in a reasonable amount, in order to maintain the necessary budgetary balance between the statements of revenue and expenditure approved in Law 9/2015 of 23 December. Euskadi's general budgets for the current year must be consistent with the new scenario described. For this reason it has been thought fit and convenient to extend the means in the same quantity of real difference as that of money which had been planned for long-term debts. It's 324,4 million euros. So the Euscal Autonomy Estrimia will have a larger fund of financial funds to face commitments in the general budget of 2016 without hurting important public policies. This expansion of the long-term debt balance, however, should be subject to the new public debt deficit targets agreed by the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration for the financial year 2016, so that budgetary stability is also ensured. As regards the specific and detailed content of the rule, this is limited to the amendment of Article 10 of Law 9/2015 of 23 December of the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community for the year 2016, extending by EUR 324.4 million the debt balance at the end of the financial year, in order to address the appropriate financing of the expenditure programmes for this financial year. In addition, a new paragraph 4 is added to that Article 10, which conditions the maximum amount of debt formalised during the financial year 2016 to meet the budgetary stability objectives agreed for that financial year under the Economic Concert. In short, it is ultimately a matter of trying to achieve the necessary budgetary balance for the implementation of the approved statements of expenditure for this year, so that the financing required for such implementation is carried out from the borrowing operations, which provides for the extension of the limit of the outstanding debt at the end of the financial year. As to this latter part, I am inclined to remark that, considering the financial condition of the Euscal Autonomy Administration in Erdigo, it depends on certain reasonable parameters in the corresponding causes and financial circumstances, with the slightest ratio of debt to the crude internal produc of the Spanish State. To conclude this exposition, I wish to speak of the procedure of the Government for the Constitution of this legislative project, in order that it may be admitted by one single lecture to the whole Union of this legislature. In accordance with the fact that in the regulations of the Eusugar Act 163.3 points, the Government may first use this procedure without requiring permission from the legislature, when circumstances of a peculiar character and urgent reasons require it. In this state, reason and circumstance seem to me to agree, and consequently lead us by a single method of reading to accept them. In fact, both the object and the content of this draft law justify its adoption through this parliamentary procedure, since it is given in extraordinary circumstances, it is confined to the material limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the House, and, moreover, it is advised by the urgent need for their approval and entry into force, before the end of the current budgetary year, since the formalization and disposition of the borrowing operations must be carried out precisely before 31 December this year. In this regard, the present draft law, of a budgetary nature, is limited to amending the ceiling on indebtedness provided for in the Budget Act for the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the financial year 2016. In addition, simplicity should be highlighted in its wording and content, in a single article. In addition to the nature and simplicity of the draft law, there are other reasons for its single reading, such as the extraordinary circumstances which have motivated its preparation, following the pre-liquidation of the contributions of the outside parliaments and the revision of the budgetary stability objectives of the Basque Autonomous Community in the final part of this budget year, as well as the urgent need to implement the borrowing operations that this rule makes possible as soon as possible. The bill of law does not affect the order of the institutions of Euskal Autonomy in Erria, nor the legal regulations of the foru-lands, nor the duties and rights of the citizens. All these conditions advise his character, according to the rules prescribed by the whole debate. Thus the whole plan will be approved by one vote. Finally, I would also like to point out that the adoption of this initiative does not seek to give a blank cheque to the Government to alleviate budget implementation. It is not a question of increasing expenditure without the necessary and compulsory control of Parliament, but rather of providing the best possible funding capacity for the administration of the Basque Autonomous Community in order to meet the expenditure commitments provided for in the budgets, without affecting the main public items and policies. Nada más, and thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Now we're going to break into a side and counter shift. On the side shift, who wants to participate? [[Pause]] The representative of the Popula Party, Monsieur Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our group will vote in favour of this bill, because it clearly responds to the stability agreement signed with the Government of Spain and meets the requirements set out in it. However, we do want to say that it is bad news for Basques to have to bring as the first bill an authorization to issue more debt, because the revenues foreseen by the Basque Finance Council for this exercise have not been reached. And what I want to say here is that we have been two years now – and the Basque Government should rethink the issue – two years in which the Basque Finance Council's forecasts fail, and fail for a long time. Last year, in 2015, for more than EUR 400 million, that the budget execution went unimplemented – as the previous advisor told us – those items. And in the end, what he suffered was the investment. Well, this year we, by passing this law, hope that these inefficiencies do not suffer as last year's investments, or aid to the self-employed, as happened, because in the end this is reflected in the lower growth and the very lower collection of the out-of-pocket deputies via taxes. And we are also concerned about one thing – the adviser will understand me perfectly – and it is that bills like these we have seen several in this Parliament, and this is the first one that comes without annex. And when I say it comes without annex I say it comes without specifying which items it affects or does not affect. And, therefore, we are going to vote in favour because we understand that this authorisation is a forecast, but we also hope that the debt authorisation to be issued will not have to be pushed to the limit. And I'll explain myself. The Basque Finance Council made the forecast it made in October; since then it is clear that there have been tax reforms that have affected and increased this collection, and therefore... That aside from the fact that perhaps today we have the fat guy in the lottery, right?, and it would increase, in the end, with that 20% more, that we expect him to touch us too. But, therefore, we believe that this spending authorization that we are going to give to this government today is, first, the need not to exhaust it, and, secondly, that it is devoted to investments. And I tell you this because you know, like me, that in this year's budget chapters VI and VII amount to EUR 1,131 million, and with this authorization the debt issue could reach up to EUR 1,555 million, and therefore we would be talking about we would be issuing debt to pay current expenditure, and that would be even worse news than the first. Because, if the first is that we have not reached the collection forecasts, the second would be that we are paying current spending on debt issuance. And you know that, besides that legally has its complexities, it's bad news for a government or a family at home. When someone has to borrow to live simply, then it's bad news, because sooner or later they're decapitalizing. And that is why – I am not going to extend much in this first intervention – we are going to approve this budget. It is not true that it gives us more funding capacity, because theoretically, with the bill that you have brought us, the budget remains the same, it reaches the same amount. In fact, article 27, which is the forecast of income from contributions, has not changed. They maintain the same revenue forecast in the budget bill. It is increased here, it is authorised, or Parliament is going to allow you to issue more debt to ensure – of course from the People's Group it is the position we have – that the investments envisaged in this year's budget will be made this year. And for now nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u4	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u5	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. A year ago, the Socialists rejected the amendments to the whole of the draft budget law which is being amended today. A year ago the socialists had that position, as in the two previous budgetary years, because we had a commitment to the citizenry to solve their problems with sufficient financial resources. That budgetary approval was not so much a support to the Government as the fulfilment of the commitment that the socialists had to the social agenda of Euskadi, because we proposed solutions to the problems, even if we were on the eve of an electoral campaign, as was the case. Three years ago the socialists made two strategic decisions in the last legislature. First, reject the 2013 budget project, which cut €1.5 billion in key public policies. And secondly, to present the initiative for a consensual tax reform in this House that allowed for more revenue and made it possible to establish the necessary budgetary appropriations for economic recovery and job creation and also to increase social cohesion. Proposals that had already left a trail of EUR 1.7 billion by 2016. We Socialists are working on the last three budgets in fulfilment of our commitment to propose, as I say, solutions to problems and solutions to the needs of citizens. Today, in view of the amendment of the Budgets Act proposed by the Government, the Socialists are going to carry out an exercise of coherence and we will support this amendment, which will allow us to close the 2016 budget year, as Mr Damborenea said, without cuts in social policies or in public services, and taking into account the subjective rights that we have adopted in this Parliament. The Socialists, therefore, again endorse, by consistency, a decision we adopted a year ago, that of taking forward the commitments made with Basque society through the economic items that we approved in the 2016 budgets, which we considered those items, and today we continue to consider, were essential to achieve the objective of a more solidarity, more competitive, more sustainable Euskadi. The legal amendment that the Government is bringing us here today – the Councillor explained – aims to extend the ceiling on indebtedness, ensuring that the deficit target..., sorry, the budgetary stability target resulting from the revision of the fiscal consolidation path that the Council of the European Union carried out in August is met. And the position of the Basque Socialists in terms of public debt and indebtedness is well known. Not too long ago there were echoes in this House, apocalyptic messages about our indebtedness. These messages were confronted with those who from the other end demanded to skip all the rules that should be complied with by public accounts in this Europe that, we like more or we like less, it is in which we are and we want to continue to be. There was a lot of noise then, when the Socialists said what we are saying today: that things in Euskadi were progressing well, though with difficulties, and that measure and prudence should prevail, taking into account the Basque economic and social situation, and that there was a red line that the Socialists in our political practice were not going to cross. The government of Patxi López, in the midst of the economic crisis, had to take over the extraordinary resource of indebtedness in order to obtain more income, because it was impossible to achieve a consensual tax reform in this House, which made it impossible to obtain the financial resources to undertake that legislature. And from then until today the socialists have maintained the same discourse and attitude, because to us the figures that worry us are those of the people who in Euskadi are having a bad time, or the strategic investments that cannot be made because we do not get the money and that, however, are crucial for the economic growth of Euskadi. That is why, in addition to explicitly committing ourselves to complying with European economic rules and budgetary rigour, we are committed to economic growth and employment, to maintaining social policies and improving public services. That is the commitment of the Basque Socialists, also today and also for the future, and that is why we have signed the agreement guaranteeing the governability of Euskadi. That is why this budgetary amendment is an act of coherence for the Socialists: consistent with what we did in the government two legislatures ago, consistent with the budgets we approved for three years, and consistent with the agreement we signed a month ago. We are concerned, and we are very concerned, about the reduction in revenues in the forecast for the closure of the collection of agreed taxes. We are concerned as much about their amount as about the fact itself. Because if the deficit target had not been relaxed, we would be in a more than complicated budgetary situation. That is why we believe that the keys to what has happened must be rigorously analysed, in order to establish effective solutions and measures, in order to ensure that the forecast for collection by agreed taxes is as realistic as possible. Because, regrettably, the use of the additional indebtedness that we are endorsing today will not serve to do new things that have already been planned in the budgets, will not serve to meet new or more needs: it will serve to comply with the commitment in the General Budgets of Euskadi for this year 2016; in short, to complete the projects that we had already approved. And we said a year ago that these 2016 Budgets were not the budgets that socialists would have presented if they had ruled. We approved them because our proposals were incorporated through a budgetary pact. Proposals that were tools for employment, for the guarantee of public health and education, for the increase of research and innovation items, for several hundred families that can already exercise their subjective right to housing, for more than 1,300 families that have not been cut off from light or gas by default. Tools, in short, to strengthen also cultural and associative projects that have been important not only for economic revival, that yes, but also for social cohesion in Euskadi. And for this consistency the Socialists will support the legal amendment proposed by the Government. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr President. Good morning, chief of departments. A very special day to you, chief physician, and welcome to this Chamber. It's a good thing you're prepared for this challenge that you're standing in front of our staff, because the work you've done will be for everyone's sake. So congratulations and good luck to you. A special day, too, Mr. Damborene, Mrs. Corcuera and Mrs. Pindo. I see that in this law we shall be again in the free verse or in the little eight, or I don't know how to discuss it. And I hope the work we do is a work based on respect as it has been so far, and this discussion may contribute to the Basques. Good morning, Bollain, welcome. We'll have you on this team for the first time and hope we'll work together from respect for each other. I'd say yes to Monsieur Damboena, who participated in it. We believe, as you know, that these are pre-predictions, which are received from the data of the past year, and I believe that if we compared the results in the different parts of the Poptular party, we should have been much worse, and that the Spanish State is naturally connected with the procedure of excessive deficiency in Europe, and in the case of Eucendia, if it had been self-relations, and the English government received numbers, we should not have been in that state. I'd like to give you some facts, see what the management was about during the previous law, and about the debt and the expenses. And let each one know what it was like to do the management. As far as I'm concerned, he went from 2010 to 2012 to pay for $4,596 million a year, and during the 2013th bill, Mr. Urkullu, President Gukullu, had to rent $2227 million. So let's consider the situation of the past few years, what we've been doing to drown, and let's see what a measure that's been about. And on the other hand, as far as the expense is concerned, I suppose you will play from here in the course of your conversation, I foresee, and I will give you some facts. In the income to ensure incomes, what was executed in 2013 was 435 million euros, and in 2015 487 million dollars, we spent over 52 million more. In the AES camp, 19,3 million in 2013, and in 2016, we don't know how much it's going to be, 23 million is still in the budget. The budgets for the social police went up 36% of the previous law. Then the data I gave you is, on the one hand, the degree in which it has been played in debt rather than in previous law; on the other hand, the amount of expenditure has been spent in the sphere of expenditure; and on the other hand, that we have always filled the Organic Law with 2 or 2012, and that the ends of the deficit and the mutilation have been filled with the hiy. The direction of the bill of law, the reason, the end, which regulates the laws, has therefore been well explained by the chief of the departments, I shall no longer extend on this point. I would like to speak of difference, because, after all, from our political point of view, our legislative body is once more proclaimed from the Euncipian Party, and from the government of President Urkullu. It is our euscal pattern, which is accepted by the Economic concert, that is regulated in this way, and which has been shut apart for the past years, and which, according to what we see from the images and images, will again be pushed and strengthened. I've just heard a few words from our cheery spokesman, and he says you'd like to pass them over in some measure, and that's what we're up to: Let this difference be respected as predicted in the Economic concert, so let's all proceed with the respect of the institutions. 2/2012 of the Organic Law, the chief physician has mentioned that the proposed bill of the Law has two different sides. On the one hand, to place a higher degree of debt, and on the other hand, that he has introduced a fourth section, that we shall respect the stability of the budget and the organic law for financial mortality. And that's the way it is. And that's the way it is in the organizations that we run, in the organizations that govern the Jelt Party. In all the institutions which he handles, you have already managed, and in spite of the fact that he has to be criticised and told that he must go to the right place to defend himself, regardless of what limits are, it is true, that wherever you manage him, you do so. I'm sure that Madrid will do the same thing, or they'll try it, and if he doesn't, they're going to the wrong way. All of us, the Jeltarian Party, the EH Collectors, the Social Party, the Social Party, and Populous Party, fill the Organic Law 2/2012, because it must be fulfilled. And we think that's how it should be. But even where we rule together, we fill it together, one by one or another. And we, too, in the previous Euscadin law, agreed to the Law of the Local Organizations, and in this case there is a special mention of it in its explanation. And I look at you, Pindo, because I suppose you'll go that way too, and that's why I'm telling you, maybe you don't. But we make a special mention of this organic law. We say that the local institutions must have been considered by several legal rules, the other by the law. Then let's be rockets and do what we say. If not, the stone will come back and they will say outside that EH Collect, whether it manages or does not handle it, says one or the other. And I would like to mention what our position is in the circle of economic European politics. For we say, and it is mentioned in this bill of laws, that the Organic Law will be composed of 2/2012, so the fourth part has been introduced. But that does not mean that we bow our heads to European politics. Here in this legislature we have said a thousand times, that the policy of election is so difficult, that it is not good for the people to go that way. That severity, seriousness, can't be drowned, that, after all, we need states of self-esteem to encourage economic relief and finally to achieve our goal. It's a job to promote. This is the way the President himself made his speech in the first session of this legislation. In every speech made by Mr. Erko and Subzus in Madrid, this policy of the European Union has been repeatedly accused of change. And in the agreement which we have signed the Socialist Party, this is what we're saying. What is said to be the fulfillment of what is said, because we believe that the costly and not effective institutions are, in short, injurious to the future, but that this does not mean that the policy which is favorable to the European Union ought not to be another; To create employment, revives the economy, and advances it from a social point of view. In all these words, I would ask a question: Who could be in this Chamber against this bill of law published by "Mojok" today? After all, we'll have to pay for the investments and social policies and social services which this Chamber has accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In reverse turn, Bollain is the representative of the Podemos together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u9	Thank you, Mrs. President. All the guests and members of the legislature, good days to all of you. Well, in this second ordinary plenary it is up to me to come up here to, on behalf of the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition, defend the right of Basque citizenship not to continue to be indebted when it is not necessary. A few years ago we were told that the crisis had come because we had lived above our possibilities, because, according to some experts, we knew nothing but debt to continue with our utopian lives to go one week a year on vacation or to try to have a house under which we could sleep quietly at night, other than a thousand-star roof. Today, however, we are told that because we have lived above our possibilities we must continue to be indebted. But we no longer have to be in debt to go on a week of vacation, which is already a real utopia, but we have to continue to be in debt, and all Basque citizenship, to invest in incinerators or large infrastructure, as can be the high-speed train. Infrastructures from which only the most privileged classes can benefit. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the opposite of what I studied in your day as a redistribution of wealth. I studied in his day that the redistribution of wealth was a just weapon of social cohesion. The real redistribution of wealth begins in the way public resources are generated, that is, in a fair and equitable tax system, where those who earn the most pay more. We sometimes have doubts as to whether the parties supporting the Government forget this, or simply do not pay too much attention to it. Now, as the Troika is returning to the People's Party the favors it owes us, we are allowed to be in debt in the long term so that our current spending will not be felt and so maintain budgetary stability. Thus, the extension of the deficit margin has been agreed between the Basque Government and the Government of the People's Party. And it is also true that you comply with the current legislation, and that the law allows you – even if it does not oblige you – to make this amendment to the General Budgets Act 2016. However, we see that for our vote to be favourable, there is a great deal of data and explanation missing. As Mr Damborenea himself said, it comes without an annex. You say that the tax collection agreed for 2016 has been reduced by EUR 473 million compared to the estimated and, more worryingly, approved by the Public Finance Council. As a result, the contributions of the outlaws have been estimated at EUR 324 million less than that considered for the revenue for the financial year 2016. However, in order to solve a problem of income soil, what you propose is to increase the spending ceiling and take advantage of this new margin offered by the State to the Basque Autonomous Community. One of the problems that this entails is that they simply intend to do so for the sake of budgetary stability, but they do not tell us at any time what they intend to use that indebtedness for. As you will understand, and especially our voters, we cannot give you a blank cheque of more than EUR 324 million and thus extend the projected annual indebtedness by more than 95%. From Elkarrekin We are in no way in favour of the increase in deficit linked to the motto of budgetary stability. Undoubtedly, this measure you are taking now, to extend by more than EUR 324 million the maximum annual debt balance, to less than ten days (nine exactly) of the end of 2016, is, at least, strange at first sight. And I say at first glance because there is only to look at the events that took place in 2016 to realize why, and it was that there were autonomous elections. Normally, each year of autonomous elections precedes the adoption of a highly electoral and, of course, expansionist budget law. In other words, each year of autonomous elections precedes the adoption of a totally unrealistic budget law. That is why what we believe from Elkarrekin is that we should be serious about the decisions taken by the Basque Public Finance Council and the repeated mistakes made by the parliaments in making revenue forecasts. And for that, from our point of view, the most interesting thing would be to talk about a real progressive fiscal policy. Let's talk about an income floor and not a spending ceiling. Ladies and gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, the next time, instead of a crude way of patching up the problem momentarily, we will hear our juntas and juntas comment that you have led to the various parliaments, for example, the elimination of a battery of regressive tax deductions, or, why not, a battery of green taxes because, as Mrs Corcuera has said, although socialists are conscious and consistent in everything, it seems that they are conscious and consistent with everything but their ideals. I don't know. Although, well, the green taxes, well thought out, we left it a little aside, going on the rope of what I've mentioned before, the incinerator and seeing that your waste projects are based on it. But why not? If you prefer, you can get your hands on the corporate tax rebates, you can get your hands on the progressiveization of the IRPF or that ghost that we in Euskadi know as a tax on wealth and big fortunes. Because I, personally, have already lost myself, and I would like to know whether the Government has any consensus on this tax, on what it will finally be called, or whether, as I would be surprised at nothing, it will be eliminated. Has any of your governments in the Chambers stopped to analyse the inheritance tax in Britain, Germany or the French State? In many cases they like to say that we approach their parameters! Ask your tax experts to see what they pay in these states, for the inheritance of direct family members, more than 400,000 euros. I'm sure it's not the fixed 1.5 like here. Moreover, in Britain it is 40%. Louis Brandeis said – and be calm, that he is not a fearless communist or a communist madman, but a judge of the U.S. Supreme Court between 1916 and 1939 – that "we can have democracy or concentrated wealth, but that we cannot have both at once." And from Elkarrekin We are clear that what is needed is a fiscal policy that is truly progressive, which is in your hands today, lords of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. And we will fight to ensure that there is no lack of democracy in our society, and we will work hard to ensure that the freedom of a social majority is not in the hands of a privileged minority. To do this, I, at first glance, come up with three key points. The first would be to eliminate evasion, fraud and tax evasion, which seems logical, but to do so we must take steps if we really want to end it. And this point would also make more than one and one laugh in this room, if it were not to set an example: where the most increased Spanish foreign investment was in the Cayman Islands two years ago. The second point would be that once and for all we should try to converge with Europe with all its consequences. A good management of the Basque Government, for us and for us, is undoubtedly about getting an adequate income floor, which allows us not to owe all Basque citizens in the long term, which is almost impossible today, when the fiscal pressure in Europe is 26.2% and that of Euskadi is 20.2, that is, six percentage points below, with the fiscal pressure of Euskadi being just over 75% of the European average. To give clear examples, we see how Sweden or Denmark, which finance much of their welfare state with general taxes, almost double Euskadi's fiscal pressure. And even one that shocked me a little bit more: that almost all the new Member States of the European Union, such as Poland, Hungary and Bulgaria (in the antipodes, supposedly), therefore, have a higher fiscal pressure than we and ourselves. And, as most reports say, the fact that fiscal pressure is substantially lower than the European average materializes that it is highly unlikely that, without tax increases, it can return to pre-crisis collection levels. And on the third point I would like to make it clear that in Elkarrekin we can no one denies that credit is necessary to carry out an expansive policy and that all citizens benefit from it, but we must use it headily and consistently. We do not understand a credit that is not directly passed on to a truly productive investment, that is, we do not understand a credit that is not invested in matters of public interest of a social majority. We do not understand, for example, that 80% of the Basque Government's investment goes directly to the high-speed train. In addition, I am sure that today will be very good for Arantxa Tapia, here not present, in the meeting you have with the Minister of Development, in which you will discuss the issue of high-speed train, among other things, because both are needed. That is why we reaffirm our negative vote on this bill, which does not say what these more than EUR 324 million are intended to be invested in and which simply asks for a blank cheque, as Damborena herself said. And we ask for more, and Basque citizenship needs more. We cannot admit a bill where it is not put for what or why. More transparency is needed for this Government to try to fix its mismanagement in recent years. We also need to know, among other things, the budgetary inefficiencies, which are another cause of your budgetary error. And we certainly ask that we not get caught up in the approvals of unreal budgets, where we find almost 5% of revenue error. Let us stop playing with citizenship, and above all let us no longer owe this Autonomous Community. Of the more than EUR 10 billion in budgets, today around 10% is destined to pay off the debt contracted, and we wonder whether it is necessary to extend it in order to mortgage future budgets. And we and we don't think so. The richest 1% of the planet already has as much as the remaining 99%, and according to the Gini index, of which you so much like to talk, Euskadi is no exception. And we ask you, if this trend in income has been given, why employment income, wage earners, have become more and more important in the collection; why do they declare three times as much as the employers who hire them or the income of capital. The unions have been denouncing it for decades, and no one has listened to them. And the next and last question we ask ourselves is what will happen in 2017. As I have already mentioned, will we review the decisions of the Basque Finance Council and the repeated and erroneous forecasts of the outside parliaments? I hope that the following income forecasts that will be presented in two months or so will be presented in this House, so that they will be presented by the government and not signed by Alicia in the country of wonders, and that we will once again go down to earth, and that their fulfillment will not be based on a picture of Monet: let us leave impressionism aside and walk a little towards realism. That's why we're clearly saying that we're going to reject this bill of law. We'll give our refusal because we don't think it's fair to be obliged to owe all euscal society to the future for your unprevisional reasons. You know it's a consequence of increasing your debt to the future budgets even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u10	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. On the answer shift, Mr. Damborene.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u11	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Gorospe, the forecasts are based on data from previous years, indeed. I know two legislatures that have begun with a bill like this. Two. One, this, asking for more debt authorization, and another, that of Mr Patxi López, because the hole there was 20% of the budget, and that came from the previous government, which was Mr Ibarretxe's. I mean, this is the second time I've known him. And what I'm telling you is that this year has passed this, last year it happened the same, but, since there was no more debt capacity, what matches did you suffer? R & D, real investment, etc., etc. We all know that! Mr. Bollain, I didn't say this was a blank check. We don't give blank checks to anyone, nor to the carrier. What I have said is that we are going to support it to ensure that this year, unlike last year, investments are fulfilled and those investments are spent, because we fear that, if not, the same will happen as last year. And I don't know if I'm going to agree a lot with you or not, but, of course, when you tell me we don't owe anymore, I agree with you: the debt must be to invest. To invest, to invest, not to pay current expenses. And, therefore, it is still possible for you and I to agree that there are excessive current expenses, and in some cases it is possible that we may even agree. In any case, I'll tell you that the only thing that doesn't do this is to fund the Y. The Y is financed on the margins, is financed against quota, not against government budgets or government debt issuance. And, therefore, if you were worried about AVE or TAV, forget it. Opposing this law won't get anything. And, in any case, I repeat, we agree with you: to issue debt is bad, to owe money is bad; then you always have to return it. And we've had a pretty bad race in the last two years, in the last two legislatures, about how it's going to increase, and how five or six years ago we didn't have a debt of $1 billion and today we're going to exceed $10 billion in just over eight years. And, therefore, that's not good, because you always have to return it. And I simply repeat to you and I reiterate that we do so to guarantee the investments. And in any case, let all of you spend a happy Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u12	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u13	Yes, thank you, President. Let's see, Mr. Bollain, I think you came here today to tell us a story and a movie, which were neither the place nor the time. And I'm going to explain why, and I think I'm going to be brief. Look, the subject of Basque Y, as Mr. Damborenea said, goes with quota. The lesson is given to you at another time, but I have limited time. Secondly, he blamed us for not being consistent with our ideals. Listen, look, more coherence than supporting budgets in which we have put forward a series of social (social) proposals, go ahead with them, and today it's time to support the expansion of the possibility of indebtedness, because, as there has been less income, some of these items may remain unimplemented and in a drawer... Hey, all coherence. Let us go to debt so that we can carry out those budgets that we do approve, yes we approved in December 2015. So, that we're going to go to a tax reform, yeah, yeah, listen, but it's just that no tax reform was coming today. We're not going to any indebtedness. So, what do we do? Do we leave the issue of energy poverty, to pay for electricity and gas, in a drawer because there is no money? Do we leave the issue of heating in schools without paying because there's no money? There will be no EUR 324 million, according to the Basque Finance Council! And somehow we have to cover that lack of income. And that's a budgetary principle, and you'll see it in a few months. But we can do a lot of theory, read everything that we have been given by those who consider themselves gurus of the tax issue, but not be practical and, ultimately, not help people. And do you know that budgets serve, in the end, to help people, to economic recovery, to promote employment, to maintain social policies, to increase social cohesion in this society so divided and so unequal? That is why some budgets are needed, and that is why we need to go to debt today, because we need EUR 324 million to be able to do what we Socialists at least approve and support on a budget. And don't say no, because tax policy revenues don't show up because they do. Suddenly we didn't open a drawer and find the ark with the treasure. No way! That revenue by fiscal policy is already set in the budget, and those will not give more of themselves! And, therefore, the revenues that do not come from the Basque Finance Council, those are the ones that have to be covered in some way. Basic budget lesson. So less to talk about ideals, less to talk about inconsistencies, when some of us here have been beating copper for actually bringing to the most harmed and vulnerable classes the solutions to their problems and needs. And don't laugh, because it's true. It is true, because we have defended amendments here that you, whether you have the opportunity to do the same in this Parliament and in these four years of Parliament that are to come! Because the Socialists already have luggage and we have backpack, and very pleased to have supported the budgets of this House, of this Parliament, as I said, a journey of EUR 1.7 billion for the most vulnerable and, with this 2016 budget, EUR 35 million that have alleviated many, but many needs. And it didn't take it to be we can get those needs covered. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u15	Eskerrik asko berriro era, legebiltzarburu andrea. Damborenea jauna, what the Government of Ibarretxe left was less than 1 billion euros and important remnants that allowed further progress for a few years. Mr. Bollain, at some moments, I have not known, since you mention not to make a mistake about other arguments, which you defend, it was hard for me to do, it was at the far right end, it was a mixture or a non-commerciation. I don't know what it was. Esan duzu: "We will not allow us to continue in debt. Now they say yes because we have lived above our possibilities." Bai, hori esan duzu. Eta guk hori Euskadi gutxitan izan dugu. Eske benetan, jarraitzen badituzu Legebiltzar honetan egon direen eztabaidak, behin eta berriro irakuriko duzu gauza bera: "I wish we had more to spend more. But we are not going to spend more than we have and we are going to manage with rigor and responsibility" Behin eta berriro. Eta horrella egin da. Thanks to this, according to the data the Spanish bank took, both in June and September this year, as regards the state of the Basques, the great difference is one of the best. It's the second thing about mentalization. Everyone else is chasing the plane. Here the Spanish bank considers the obligation for a short term. And that which is united is a debt of 10 million dollars more than 10 million euros. And there are others coming back to 15 percent, short-term. Others are over 40%. Over 30% of Baleares, above 15% of Catalonia, Murcia more than 28%, Estremature above 22. All the same. Eukadin has been strictly handled. Zuk egin duzun discurtsoa ez dakit nongoa izan den. Aipatu is a duzu who want a policy of redistribution of wealth, which is not done here. Look, Mr Bollain, here is a progressive and equitable policy aimed at the redistribution of income by a double path. One by the way of income, because our tax system is exactly progressive, and pay more taxes and taxes those who have higher incomes, and its goal is to equidistribute income, a more equitable distribution. And our entire budget is also aimed at equidistributing income through expenditure: 36% more in social policies; 23% of the budget goes to education, more than 3 billion... Yes, make calculations, Mrs Arana (I do not know if you are also accompanying the debate): 23% to education policies, and in health policies more than 3 billion are destined, more than 1,580 euros per person. If you don't call that income redistribution... Not only by fiscal means, as you analyze, which is the raca-raca you have learned, but also by means of spending. My mother often commented on me, it was a learning model, there around our house, or, she said, there were several brothers and sisters in a family. One was always without danger under the tree, read and read, always near, always studying, theoretically, without risk. All the other brothers and sisters were studying in the morning and working at the evening, some working all day. Who do you think took the family out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In the turn of answers, Mr. Bollain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u17	Thank you. Mr. Damborenea, I'm concerned that you agree with me, but the blank check... You said there's no annex, and you don't know what it's going to be spent for. After all, why do you approve of it? They approve it because it is an agreement between Montoro and the Basque Government. There's no more. About indebtedness. I didn't say it was bad to be in debt. I know that's your opinion. What I have said is that in Elkarrekin We can no one deny that credit is necessary to carry out an expansive policy, but that it must be used head-on, and that it has an impact on policies and matters of public interest for a social majority, not for a privileged minority. Thank you for the lesson, Mrs. Corcuera. Any time. But I, if you like, give you one of understanding, because I have not said at any time what you have said I have said. The thing about the backpack, that's the problem. And the problem is income floor, not spending ceiling. I repeat, income floor. In the forecasts of the Basque Council of Public Finances, which were made adrede without conforming to the reality, to the forecasts of most of the indicators, there lies the problem. It is not necessary to draw up 324 million euros to meet the budget. No, no, For what has to be taken out EUR 324 million is to comply with erroneous forecasts. And on taxation, zuri nabil orin, ez daukat beste gauzarik, erraz-erraz daukat zitatzea the report that Ignacio Zubiri was asked to do. Hemen jartzen du Euskadin daukagula type inpositibo bat, adibidez, in corporate tax above or equal to the European average, batha... Iraqurri egingo dut hobeto esateko: "The tax rate of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, 28%, is somewhat higher than the EU 15 average, but it is in the dominant trend that is the interval. "In any case, in 2008" – and it is repeated – "in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country it was where the least was collected by corporate tax, even having a slightly higher rate". On average, 30% less was collected than in the European Union of Fifteen. "Since the type is similar to the average, low collection shows two things: the importance of the incentives given and their deductions, and probably of fraud." And that's what we have to cut and where we're going with a lot of millions of euros, with which we wouldn't need to be in debt for 324 million more euros.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u18	Thank you, Mr. Bollain. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the bill. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the pros, 46; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 18.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u19	The law, therefore, which is changed by the General Prejugation of the 2016th year of Euscal Autonomy in Er-Epromia, has been approved. Next, the vote time. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u20	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Today, the new government has brought a bill of law to change 2016 Prejugations. We have, as we have seen, abstained from it. We shall not hinder the increase of deficit, and the use of it to do so, if it be employed for the benefit of society, which is always obtained by that means. But we will not protect him from the design of collecting money which is not to be met with by a bad tax policy, and simply to fill up a defense frontier suitable to the needs of the Spanish government, here is the legal model which is represented by MUDY to-day. From Euskal Herria Bildu we have repeated over and over again that this Government had room for indebtedness, if it wished, to respond to the economic and social reality and to the strategic challenges of the country; that it had room for indebtedness to make budgets that really met the needs of Basque society. Since Euskal Herria Bildu we have repeated over and over again that the so-called tax reform that they agreed on PNV, PSE and the People's Party in 2013 is not valid, that it remains short, that it does not meet the objectives that it was supposed to meet, and, even worse, that it does not even meet the collection objectives that you have set yourself. And today we are here with a modification of budgets to extend the debt ceiling. This amendment is motivated by the revision made by the Council of the European Union to the fiscal consolidation path of the Spanish State and which the latter, in turn, has been able to distribute in part to the autonomous communities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, once again, what is presented to us as a result of the bilateral agreement between the Basque Administration and the State Administration, what is presented to us almost with pride as a reflection of the fiscal and financial autonomy contemplated by the Economic Concert, is nothing more than the translation of what the State has previously imposed on the autonomous communities of the common system. Once again, the Basque Government presents us as an agreement, which is nothing more than an imposition, one more, and there are already too many. The increase of the destination which is presented to the present day has but one purpose; It's like a big hole in 2016 when you cover it up somehow. That is to say, this change is only to cover up a fragment of the hole in 324 million euros made by the preventive consequences of a tax policy. This change will not allow more money to strengthen the services to the benefit of society, nor. That change of law that goes in to-day is just a joke, and there's nothing else. This change will not prevent restrictions, this change will not strengthen the recovery of the Esscal economy. We can say, due to structural problems, that the state doesn't fill up target, it's been done in the last minute by a photograph of 2016's budgets in extremis. Because that's what's going to happen here today. Yeah, well, it's gonna get you a change of credit in the same amount that, from the tax collection, reduces the contributions of all the aliens, the new goals of budgets, which, in a far way, give us a chance to raise 268 million people around us. So there will still be a gap around 56 million, which will probably be repaired through the inexesities that have become so popular lately. After all, this change on our table today reveals the two essential factors of public economic policies; the policy of taxing and depreciating. Hence we find that in this legislation we must discuss the policy of taxes and the policy of settlements, so far as they are the tools of euscal and the benefits of society, and so on. Here we are going to bring the discussion to the legislature, and we hope that we all come to the point. Let's not see once more how the fun makes the last moments' lovers, the budgets, and so on. Let's not see how the state crews are used to cover up the mistakes that are happening at the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of the parliamentary team, in the Gastical township, to explore the gas around the Armentia-2 project. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, whenever you like, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u22	Partners, members of the legislature, members of the government, good days. First of all, I'd like to say hello to the recurrent members of the chicken house who will continue to discuss the discussion today. Welcome, thanks for the work you're doing, and I'll see if today's discussion clears you up. On the summit of the COP 21 of Paris, on June 5th, 2015, one of the prettiest European initiatives opposed to climate change began from Baiona, the North Basque Country. Her name was the Tour de la Alternis, and she organized her movement of life. The object of these was to pass over five thousand miles, cross six states, and reach Paris. And the end was very simple: To make the whole course stop, to warn the public that there are problems and alternatives in climate changes. I was in Baion that day and I was talking about the gas in the Arab. Life, in a way or another, invited us several of the agents we are in opposition to climate change. This T-shirt was given me that day, and I wear today for the sake of so many motives, so many movements, and so many artificers, who work against climate change. Especially in honor of one. Because if I'd been in Baion talking about the gas of the Arabs, it was because a person invited me personally to live, and that person was the new Czech House. The New House, one of the creators of life, one of the motives of the Tour Alterati, an artificer of climate change yesterday and today, as many others do the artificer of peace. My warmest union is here in Czech House, and by way of all the artisans of peace in these difficult days. On the gas from Araba and the well Armentia-2, which we will be discussing today, there are three issues that we must take into account. The first is that processing is being done without guarantees, without transparency and with nightliness. The second is that the project presented is weak, very weak, both because of its justification and because of its huge shortcomings and inconcretions, which at all raises doubts about the viability and environmental problems. And the third, perhaps the most important, is that the insistence on the search for non-conventional hydrocarbons is a strategic error in terms of energy, but also in terms of politics, and of first order. Because this project will use public funding for what?, to perpetuate the current fossil energy model, instead of putting the compass and public resources looking at the necessary and urgent energy transition. That is why today we call for the Armentia-2 project to be withdrawn as long as there is no convincing technical justification, as long as we do not have the conclusions of the presentation on energy that took place in the last legislature, which closed falsely without conclusions and which would surely tell us that public money must be allocated to renewable energy projects. These three axes to the paleness of the moon, a number of things. One of the most repeated words of government between the Jeltists and Socialists is transparency. You mention him in the document several times as well. The other said: "Queremos desarlar los de una nueva ultura ultura auditiva la transprencia, la efficacia, la partipciaón y la valuución deperados." Let us examine the matter of the gas, and see what you think of it. The first permit that was requested in 2005. For six long years the crowd didn't say a word. Since then, by President López, the plan has been in the mouths of all, and we have at present a law which is now suspended from the Constitutional Court, founded by more than 100,000 people, protected by the law which EAJ did not protect. He's got other plans from the Hydrocarbros de Basque, but he's in the same place and the same gas. They've named the Armentia-2 well, and he knows a great deal about transparency or transparency, and I'll explain. While President Urkullu decided to lower the blinds of the previous legend, Hidrocarbros de Euska had sent an account of the environmental report to the Ministry of Industries and to the Environment. They open the ordinary procedure in Madrid and September, while we were all engaged in election campaign, they transmit the report to several institutions and groups so that they can contribute. A month later, however, as long as there is no president and no government, the Ministry changes the procedure and sympathises what was common. But the crowd is already on the alert. Who's the one who opens the news? Did the government explain the news? No. Was Hydrocarbros de Euskadi? No, we don't. Facking was not a move. Isn't it amazing? As soon as we entered the parliament, we tried to ask for information, to ask questions, to ask for shows, etc., but, alas, there was no government. And when the government is completed, instead of answering questions and information requests, he asks us for an extension. Why or why? Well, today, on this table, there's no need to be on top of this towel. Is that the transparency? In short, Euskadi Hydrocarbons has inserted this project between two legislatures to move in the dark. There will be no declaration of environmental impact, no phase of allegations, no phase of public information. Is this transparency? Is this participation? Is this going to be a good thing? Down there! All right, all right, all right! Do you really think that after the discussion of the gas that has been in the neighbourhood of Araba, the inhabitants of the Auraba, the inhabitants of the Renaissance, without discussion, may answer without any public information, without any public information, that they deserve to be carried on in the dark, without any public information, without any public information, through the obscurity of the inhabitants? If you mean nothing wrong, and want to make this transparency come true, it is easy; Stop this project before it starts at all. But transparency or transparency is not the only serious lack of this project. Technically, it's pretty smart, too. And I won't get too involved in technical matters, but I want to say a couple of things. First of all, Hidrocarbulus de Euskarians has been telling us that there are no gas bags in Aran, that the gas is scattered and the most appropriate technique for exploiting is a fracing, that is to say, non-conventional techniques for pits and gas-noconventions. But all of a sudden, conventional techniques can be used. At least it's amazing. Besides this, the report does not illustrate the accounts of chemicals, causes doubts about the protection of the guinea-poofer, which are uncertain in critical points, and so on. And this is not something that I say and you must believe in at all. Look at the report at the Gastaire City or the Congress office and don't forget you're responsible for what can happen. Proiektuaren mummy, hala ere, "Study of alternatives" atalean dago. Proiektu hauetan aukera ezberdinak aintzat hartu behar dira, ez egitearena era, zero aukera deitzen da. It's sinethetic, it's zulatzea aukera beat yes. Baina Honen inguruan Hydrocarbons from Euskadik hau said: "The zero alternative is to renounce the potential use of own energy resources and also the potential development of the industrial and economic activity of the area". And, in addition to this, the report dares to mention even the benefits of the project with regard to climate change. Although the surprise, the most unlikely argument, jumped yesterday in the City Hall of Vitoria, when socialist Peio López de Munain asked us to see if we intended, not to take out the gas, if we intended to use a candle to light up. A candle! I don't know if it reminds you of anything, but it reminded me of the great Arzalluz at that time when he was talking about cots and candles and all that mess. I don't know if you remember. I, before such a science, obviously have no arguments. Nsostros no, but the report of the Gasteize City is very clear that the prevention of gas does not suppose the natural resources to be rejected, does not suppose that industry or economic development, and that we cannot forget that it is a fossil resource which has been shed upon the metanogasa. Amaitzze aldera, lehena, argi esan behar da SHESAk, beraz Jaurlaritzak, ez diola fracking ari uko egin. Irakurri ezazue Armentia-2 putzuaren txostena eta ulertuko duzue. "Alternative One," he said. "An alternative is to resort to stimulation techniques, being currently hydraulic fracture or fracking the most suitable for this type of formation. The hydraulic fracture is being used massively and successfully," in the United States, China and so on. "Due to the social impact that exists at the moment on fracking, its use in this first well of Armentia-2 is discarded." That says: fracking, the most suitable technique, used massively successfully, is currently ruled out by the social impact. For nothing more. Do you have jarri eta gero, fracking ez of the ego esan dezakezue? The second is the size of the gas operation. Have you noticed that Facking isn't keeping your biggest problem, is he still there? The bigger problem is the amount of gas tanks. In the previous essay, SHESA had to admit that in the production of gas for 60 years, more than 2,000 wells would have to be made. Now, what number of wells are we talking about if the technique is less effective than the fracking? Are we over 2,000? How much land are we talking about? How many gas tanks do we need to move that? Are we sane? The discussion, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer failure or failure, that's over. The discussion is, whether we are now going to make the most energetic transition to keep climateal changes, what kind of projects and how fast we must protect them-that is the dispute. And we're not going to be the ones who offer magic solutions, we're not going to be the ones who say we can adapt ourselves from day to day to day with retractable energy, but we have a direction and we've got where to put public money. Even if it's hard, we need a good diagnosis. Or rather, if it's diagnosis, we must admit the diagnosis and proceed through words. There is no such thing as eupscal oasis in the field of energy. My neurotic addiction is from 94%, one of the highest in Europe. The amount of energy retals we use is a 6% minor. Looking at the gass of the greenhouse effect, the Errean frightens twice as much as the one on the other of the world. We're not going to complete our goals from Europe, so wake up for once. It's over spending public money on fossil resources. The government has to apply all effort to retractable energy. We'll be stubborn about this. We have a tremendous responsibility for the next generation. Shall we leave the Basque Country full of wells? Or would we clean up the guinea-pigs? That's the game. There's a lot at stake with this bet. And it's not a exploration well, we're not just talking about a exploration well. It's a whole way of understanding what's at stake. You do not want to understand that the transition is not to gas, the transition is from gas and to renewable energies. But it seems like you don't care. The gas has already been done, that's already happened, and you keep betting on the usual, with the usual and the usual, although it's not going to work. I, towards the end, began to get used to the famous phrases and listen to them in this room, and I like them too. To finish my first session of this stage, I shall go far away, and I shall bring on this stage a sentence which old Catón had often said more than 2000 years ago in the Roman Senate, paraphrasedging and adapting it to mine. He said: "Ceterum autem centeseo SHESA esse delta." Or if I had to say something about it, it seems to me that we should destroy the SHESA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u23	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the Basque Potula team, Mrs. lópez, Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u24	Good morning, President, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I use this shift on behalf of the Popular Group to fix the position of our group regarding the initiative presented by EH Bildu regarding the project of exploration of the well Armentia-2 in the municipality of Vitoria. EH Bildu has presented in just over a month three initiatives around this dossier, in three institutions concerned: the City of Vitoria, the General Councils of Álava and the Basque Parliament. Three different initiatives in approaches, contradictory in some cases, and difficult to understand in the approach. And I tell them. For example, at the General Councils of Álava, at Bildu's initiative with other groups, he called for the closure of SHESA, called for the removal of the exploration file at the Armentia-2 well, and urged the Basque Government from the General Councils. His initiative comes to this House, and they forget to urge the Government to close SHESA and to urge the Government to withdraw the project. Because you in your initiative do not say withdrawal from the project, you say that processing is suspended until you give them a technical explanation, which is a pass, but quite comfortable. Pretty comfortable, because it doesn't specify how deep you have to have the technical explanation, what is the technical explanation that satisfies you. Or is it worth any technical explanation? Mr Otero, I see you as a rare drift, and besides, you do not complement the speech you make with the initiative you present here. It doesn't match. It doesn't match. We're gonna be serious, and if we want to ask for something, we write it down as such, and if we don't... Because you... Let's see, I can spin this with how we ended up in the previous legislature the energy debate. The spokesman for the EH Bildu group told us, after four years presenting energy initiatives in this House, that what he really wanted was a debate on the energy model, which is graceful to spend four years, not to present a single initiative on energy model, to say that it really was what he wanted. But what's wrong with you guys? We saw it in the waste treatment in Gipuzkoa: four years opposing the Gipuzkoa General Councils with the waste treatment, you come to the government, and what was your model, ladies and gentlemen? A stick and a bucket! They didn't have a model! And the same happens to them: they have no model, or they do not agree on how to present the model. I don't know. But we really do not know a serious proposal by EH Bildu on the energy transition and the energy model. So, Mr. Otero, be serious. And what you're bringing us here today is not really what you asked for at the General Councils of Alava, nor what you were saying at the city hall. In the city hall they talked about fracking; I think they were lost, but they talked about fracking directly. That's right. I have read the appearances and explanations; therefore, I tell you how your spokesman began at the City Hall of Vitoria, talking about fracking, which was fracking, when it is not fracking. Ladies and gentlemen, you really are tangled but you do not have an approach, and in the meantime, the gentlemen of the government delighted, seeing the bulls from the barrier. Because time passes, Mr Urkullu, in his zen policy, does not want any noise, until, ladies and gentlemen, the period of government control is over. And indeed, as you have said, it is when they get to work. Curious initiative, curious way of working from a government that says it wants to be transparent. Curious way! And, ladies and gentlemen, they get to work, and what do we see? For we see that they bring us or ask for authorization to exploit a well, which was already exploited that environment for gas twenty years ago. We from the People's Group believe that hydrocarbon exploration should be done from the point of view of compliance with environmental regulations, respecting the natural environment, protected spaces, aquifers; using the best possible techniques that are available at all times. We need to talk about environmental sustainability, but also about economic sustainability and transparency. And I say economic sustainability because this exploration is going to cost us 27 million euros from the public treasury, for a public company, SHESA (that is, everything very comfortable), without open competition for other companies to opt for these jobs. Why not? Why does SHESA have to do this? Hey, so why $27 million? Why not 10, or 50? I don't know. Is there any explanation? We don't know. Anyway, as I said to you, EUR 27 million to use an old drilling technique for exploration already used, as I told you, in this environment twenty years ago, which did not yield results of profitability. And why is it going to yield profitability now? Do we have any data, have we been presented with any data that this has changed? No! No! So, ladies and gentlemen, doubts, all of them. Doubts, all of them. Why in 2017, the 21st century, we do not use the techniques of the present moment for explorations, the techniques used by energy companies? Why? Why not use the Calidoscope, for example, which is a simulation, which does not have to be drilled, techniques with which it does not have to be drilled to know what the conditions of the subsoil are? Why don't you use that? Is SHESA not in a position, perhaps, to use these techniques? I don't know. They don't count, because we don't know. Or 4D modelling techniques, which are drill simulations that make when you start exploring fit very much the reality of what's at the bottom? Why aren't these techniques used? Ladies and gentlemen, this action by the Government is not reasonable, it lacks common sense, and we understand from the Group of the European People's Party that it requires explanations and clarifications. In short, as I said, transparency, something that this Government does not like, and less so in these matters. How is it possible that we are increasing the debt, as we just approved, and waste...? Because I believe that, with the data we have, it is a happy waste of EUR 27 million. Or isn't it a waste, ladies and gentlemen? It's not a waste, anyway! Just as we are going to do with this is to take out certain stocks of certain materials that are stored in certain companies! Tell us, tell us. I hope Mr. Grajales will tell us, because that was also the purpose of the performance, wasn't it? I mean, I don't know. Since they tell us nothing, we can think of what the Government is thinking when it moves this project. Ladies and gentlemen, we are putting forward an amendment to this Bildu initiative in which basically what we are going to say is that all the administrative and legislative mechanisms that we have when oil extraction, gas exploration, is activated, which is what we are talking about. Because, Mr Otero, we need an energy mix that ensures that when we go to give birth, or when the industry wants to start working on Monday at six in the morning, then it has light basically; that hospitals work. And that's what we need. And the gas is necessary. Another thing is that we are responsible if we have the capacity to do this. And I am with you that SHESA believes today is not operational. I don't know if it was in 1982; not today. We don't need her today. And I, if you bring an initiative to close SHESA, support it right now, but right now, because I don't think it's operational. And this dossier, as I say to you, has all the doubts in the world, and it is also that the government has already started with some pride, not answering the questions in time. That seems to me proud, and it seems to me a very daring way to start the legislature. Very daring! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we call for that, and we also call for the measures adopted in the climate change strategy, which is a very good strategy and which has been supplemented in this House and which I believe has interesting things to do. We also urge the Basque Government to develop the necessary legislation to boost the energy transition towards the development of renewable energy and energy saving and efficiency measures, which, on the other hand, is marking the European Commission in the legislative package it has put on the table for debate. And we also say, we urge the Basque Government to develop a campaign to raise awareness of energy savings and efficiency, as well as the benefits of the use and promotion of renewable energy. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the light, the cheapest and the cleanest energy is the one that is not consumed. We've said it many times, and here you don't listen. The other day I could read a report saying that if every citizen made a gesture and we were aware of what energy saving is, we could save 70% of the energy we consume. Hey, it's not a joke! I was saying, even if it's only half, it seems interesting to me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u25	Finish up, Mrs. Octave.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u26	Yes, thank you, Madam President. If you will allow me a moment... to say that our group, to the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Group, is not going to vote, because our initiative seems much more complete. I encourage you to vote for the initiative, the amendment we have tabled. I was presented with a compromise amendment, a compromise amendment proposal, but I was unable to accept it because it was about lowering the initiative. It is indeed our initiative, our compromise amendment is very complete, and I think it contains very sensible things, that this Government should be thinking about them and should have them on the table. Therefore, if you go beyond the ego of my initiative, I believe, if you are wise, that you would vote for our amendment to the initiative. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Octave. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u28	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to you all. Well, Mr. Otero, we started this legislature almost as soon as we finished it. You brought us today a non-law proposal seeking an excuse to talk about what you always want to talk about, although the Basque Socialists believed that this issue was settled. Almost at the end of your speech you said that today's debate was not fracking bai or fracking ez, and you told us nothing more than that. Because his initiative does not say that, and he has confined his entire intervention to explaining everything that has happened in this Parliament about fracking. And you know perfectly well that in this case this spokesperson... We have already had debates and debates on this, and I believe that open up settled debates, when it was a closed debate with a very broad agreement, I think it poisons the subject a little, and I think we should leave it on the table. It is true in this Parliament that on many occasions we have discussed the energy future, and this one which speaks to you on many occasions has also said that it was an outstanding subject. When Mr López de Munain refers yesterday, in the City Hall of Vitoria, to the candil, he refers to you being the no for the no. Always. And that's something I said in this rostrum, too. Wind farms are proposed: No. The implementation of renewable energies is envisaged: No. When there are no animals, it is that we destroy the landscape; when we do not destroy the landscape, it is that they prefer to put sticks and cubes, as Mrs López de Ocariz spoke. You speak of transparency, but that was imposed and unwillingly by the Gipuzcoan citizens, because they did not want what you were imposing. No transparency, no convincing the citizen. So, that's what that means with the candil. You want to give the switch and it works, you want to use public transport... Now, they never explain how. That speech that you spoke of in your speech, dies when the legislature dies. I would have liked to have had other paths, too, but what happened happened, and finally, with all day looking through the rear-view mirror, I think the country is making little progress. And you in that paper were the no (not to this, not to the other, we don't want those monopolies and oligopolies that you love to talk to about companies, some fundamentally), but when it comes time to put on the table (okay, this we don't want) how we're going to get Euskadi to move forward, our citizens to have the demands covered, there already... When we're not "technical," when we're not "government," when we're not "finally, this has to be studied, it has to be remembered"... But it's always no, Mr. Otero. I too believe that we need to talk about the future of energy in Euskadi, especially because we are an autonomous community with 95% dependence. And you know, like me, that Euskadi is not able to give 100% through renewable energies. We need to come up with a mix and create energy policy in order to respond to what society demands today. And you have no answer to that. At least have the humility to acknowledge that we all have to agree on this policy, but do not always charge against the Government and those we support certain initiatives. You know how the fracking theme developed. Don't bring it back here again, because it's using the collectives as well, and it's setting a theme on fire again in something that was already quiet. The Basque Socialists said, "There will be no fracking in Euskadi," and I told you when you presided over a platform. And there's fracking in Euskadi? No, no, The Basque socialists said, "There will be no public euro for the Basque government to spend money on fracking. " Is there a public euro for this? No, no, So, where's the problem? I just don't get it! If you want to bring an initiative for us to discuss again the future of energy policy in Euskadi, bring it. Let's talk! Let's try and make a deal again! Man! But what he can't do is he's dizzy, he's trying to disguise... The costume that... Bring a costume for a debate that you want to bring us here because it suits you or because you believe it populist, but at the time of truth you know that the issue is settled, and you don't put any solution on the table. So, what do you want? I would like you to tell us in your speech – we have already made it clear everything you do not want – what you want, and, above all, how you think this government can carry it out. Because, as you will understand, I am a member of a party that supports the government, but I also want to give birth and light it up. Come on, I don't like living with candil either, like Mr Peio López de Munain. So, I think we need to be very serious about this issue, and stop creating alarms and using certain policies when we are interested. Especially because of the issue of energy demand, which I think is serious that we continue to talk about but never say what we intend to do. And why do I say this? Because I believe that in Euskadi and Spain, in Europe, in the world, the policy of the banner remains. Over! We just have to want to do everything around a banner, which we put ourselves in the front row and that's all we know how to do. But the Chambers, like this Basque Parliament, are being made a policy, a policy that is capable of solving citizens' problems. And you're the bosses of the banners – I was going to say also about the T-shirts, but after the story you've told I'm not going to mess with the T-shirt – you really like the T-shirts too, besides the banners. I therefore believe that it is time for you to get serious about this issue, which seems to matter so much to you, and to start having positive initiatives, and above all proposals. Because in this House you know that issues such as the environment and energy have always been covered by a broad agreement. These are issues on which they have usually always arrived, we have reached broad agreements between antagonistic political parties in many other policies, and therefore I do not think it appropriate, or above all responsible, to set too much fire to the environment, when this issue you know was settled. And if you think you haven't talked about fracking then listen to yourself in the video, to realize how many times you've talked about it. And I tell you, as I told you before, there will be no gas extractions in Euskadi. You've started talking about unconventional gas extraction. That's not Armentia-2! That's not it, and you know it! We're talking about conventional gas. And then you may not like the 2013 Environmental Assessment Act adopted in Madrid, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party did not like it either, but the laws are to be enforced, and you know that, with the legislation in hand, the government is complying with the law. Because the law doesn't force impact assessment, it doesn't force what you want. It doesn't stop, okay, but it doesn't force. Therefore, you are asking in your initiative, in point 1, something that is in accordance with the law, which is what Mrs Tapia is doing in the Basque Government, and in point 2, you know that we cannot expect conclusions from a paper that died with the legislature. And you say lack of transparency, because the government acts between two legislatures. And what do you want the government to do, stop everything? As there is no elected government...! The day comes when Mr Urkullu calls the elections, and the Basque Government lowers the blind until the day Mr Urkullu is re-elected in Gernika? It is not only this that is done during the intersessions period! There are so many other things that are part of the day-to-day management of a government, and you know it. I understand you may not like it, but you'll have to recognize that the law is being enforced. And what Mr. Urtaran said yesterday in his appearance at the City Hall of Vitoria was that he, as mayor of Vitoria, wants to ensure that what is going to be done always carries the right environmental conditions, that it does not put itself at risk what mainly has to do with the municipality of Vitoria (that is why the ministry asks him), and, of course, I think that is what has always been done. Because when these issues have come to this House I believe that no political party has talked about technical measures, environmental measures or economic measures being breached. And, of course, I do not consider Mr. Urtaran a dungeon who pretends to go against everything and who doesn't want to destroy the municipality he legitimately governs. Therefore, to conclude, I must say that you have wanted to bring us a topic in which you feel comfortable, but that you are stale. Euskadi is a free fracking territory, free fracking, and you know it. And don't laugh, because you were the protagonist of this story, and you know every year that led us to the agreement that we finally reached. Or not? So, that issue gets settled, don't bring it in. What do you want us to talk about about the country's energy future? Bring in the initiative and let's talk about it. That's right, but with proposals, eh! with proposals, not outside Parliament with the "Not This" banner. Because there can be one of "This Not" and next to "This Yes". I mean, to see what EH Bildu thinks of the future of this country. Because it is true that here with candile people do not want to live anyone, but there are some that we dedicate ourselves to doing politics to make proposals, which is what we dedicate ourselves to. And in that agreement that you have spoken about, which you have signed the Basque Socialist Party with the Basque Nationalist Party, we are talking about transparency because we believe it. Among other things, because that agreement was signed by a party that was the party of the first government that made the government open. Didn't EH Bildu in Gipuzkoa, eh! The Socialist Party of Euskadi brought him to Ajuria Enea. We're talking about transparency because we care. But it's that, in addition to transparency, we talk about energy poverty, we talk about fracking is no longer a reality in Euskadi, we talk about the energy future, we talk about RGI, about health..., about a lot of things that seem to suit you. Therefore, "fracking not" for everyone, mainly because we are bound by law until a court says this..., well, it lifts us up. At the moment we have it, armored we have the territory. But I trust the rule of law, Mr. Otero. You don't, either. I do trust in the rule of law, among other things because it is the one we have acquired and it is the one that helps us live together. There is a law, and then there are procedures for governments to seek, well, to lift the laws passed by an autonomous community. That's why we'll have to work in self-government. But at the moment the law is in force, and you know that Euskadi is a fracking-free territory, and that Armentia-2 is conventional gas. You don't like it? I accept that. That the Basque government is complying with the law? Yeah. Therefore, from now on political criticisms I understand that all, and moreover it is the obligation of the opposition. That is so, also bringing some proposal to push in the future of the country, and not always staying on the cover banner.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u29	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Geaters, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u30	Chief of Parliament, chief of the department, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Otero, I think we're much closer than you think, I'm telling you. Let us try to lay down the principles of our discussions in the whole legislature, which we shall have at the present day. The example of energy and politics of a people, not only ours, but rather ours, depends on the establishments of the natural resources of the world, and always guarantees the security of men and environment, and secondly, without natural resources, in the least possible cost of the people. And when I'm talking about costs, I don't only talk about prices, but I don't cost a price. It must therefore be the first care of a government and a people in the field of energy to know its natural resources, and the second to secure the proper management of them. We have a public instrument for this Euskadin, and I want to emphasise the word public for its strategic importance, for its control over the organization and its benefits in the community. We have a public institution, as I'm saying, that takes over the work, the Basque Organization of energy, the EVE. EVE's responsibility is to establish Eukadical energy strategy and operate in the neurotic area as a technical branch of the Euskata government. Its purpose is to promote the saving of energy, to explore the inexpendable Eukadincies, and to know the resources of energy which are necessary to the knowledge of its natural resources, based on the criteria of the guarantee of energy supply, energy development, and continuity. And SHESA is within that structure. You used to call it "con los de siempre." It's true, "con los de siempre," with the public sector of the Basque Country. And today, as the Representative of the Socialist Party said, it is not a time when it has passed through the preprejudication of the fracing. I believe that in the previous legislation there is no use here any longer. I heard yesterday from one of your teammates that he didn't see it written anywhere. Remember that the agreement between PSOE and PNV is written, signed, and that it will be fulfilled. So let's not confuse the area. Today's debate is another. Where we're going and what resources we've got and what resources we use, what we're betting to challenge the use of energy and how we do it. Whether we wish to be independent in the field of religion or not, that is a matter of fact. Therefore, as I said, the first obligation and responsibility of a government and a country in the field of energy is to know the resources at its disposal, and secondly to ensure the proper management of those resources. In our opinion, it is the duty of public administrations to know what energy resources we have, and not to give up knowledge in any case. But we have said loud and clear that this analysis must be respectful of the environment, ecosystems and the environment. The Basque energy strategy has clearly set its objectives: to move towards zero oil consumption, turning renewables into the main source of supply and making gas a transitional energy. Beraz, Otero jauna, ikusi horretan was a teenager. A transition that must be faced with the responsibility of guaranteeing consumption, guaranteeing energy supply to the population and industry, and being responsible for our own resources and the possibility of exploiting them. And all this in a territory where 3 billion cubic meters of gas are consumed a year and zero is produced, that is, as someone has already indicated, in a territory absolutely dependent on energy. We are, therefore, far from energy sovereignty. And as it is with hydrocarbulus and minerals, the resources of re-established energy are also limited by the wind, the sun, the water. It is often said that they are infinite, and that is not true. To set the sunlit sun or not. Or we have a terrible sun and a lot of suntime or not. It is also founded on our natural resources to establish them, and I want to show this, for it seems to me that we sometimes forget ourselves. And we will have to continue to consume gas, because the most ambitious objectives (I don't know if some of us will get to see them, I'm afraid not) point to 2100 in order to achieve a 100 percent renewable energy supply, with a transition period of eighty-five years in which the use of natural gas will have to be enhanced with respect to coal and oil, which are the most polluting and which, in fact, must be eliminated from the energy mix that this country needs. Thus, within hydrocarbons natural gas is the main technical objective of the exploration carried out by the Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society, which is considered as a cleaner source of energy and as a transition to the development and deployment of renewable energies, which must be remembered once again, as I said before, that they have limitations peculiar to the climatology and orography of the country. As such transitional energy, therefore, fully fits into the Euskadi 2030 Energy Strategy. But not only in Euskadi: global use of natural gas will be enhanced, because it is the cleanest and most efficient combustion hydrocarbon and therefore the most environmentally sustainable. Natural gas combustion, as I said, releases about half of CO 2 than coal, and 30% less than oil. The reduction in emissions resulting from the substitution of coal and oil for natural gas has a direct positive impact on the fight against global warming and climate change. As a result, greater substitution, greater positive environmental impact. Obviously it's still impacting, but we haven't discovered anything yet that has a zero incidence, have we? On the other hand, being able to dispose of an indigenous resource, a local natural gas resource would undoubtedly have environmental advantages, since on the one hand costs would be avoided, as I said earlier, referring to the price and the others. That is to say, the environmental costs of transporting this gas, especially in the case of liquefied gas, would be avoided, avoiding the significant equivalent emission of CO 2 derived from the processes of liquefaction, maritime transport and subsequent regasification. It was spoken in previous interventions of the candil. Of course we're not going to walk with a candil! We'll keep bringing him in from the outside! To the extent that we cannot use the autochthonous, we will continue to bring it from the outside. And I think that in many cases that is somehow..., I don't know if to call it double ecological morality, but, of course, a certain selfishness is behind this approach. I mean, not here, eye, don't touch; we'll either bring it from Algeria, or from Trinidad and Tobago, or from anywhere. And it seems, of course, that they suffer there, like we don't share the same atmosphere, do we? We also need natural gas, in addition to because we consume it, also because, although the future goes through renewable energies, for these to be operationally viable, they need an alternative source to ensure supply in non-generation periods. That is, night for the sun, wind calm for the wind, drought for the hydraulics, etc., etc. In conclusion, renewables need, for their use in the present and for their future development and operation, which will undoubtedly end up producing, a clean energy source such as natural gas. Therefore, the objective of the new Armentia-2 survey is to demonstrate whether it is possible to achieve results with positive profitability through the best drilling techniques available today, and with all environmental guarantees. All of them! How many wells? I've heard 2,000, Mr. Otero. We're on a single well today. Yes, we're working on a single well today. Then we'll see where the process leads. But now the permit has been requested for a single well. This is a probe! If you're right, surely this will stay in the way, this won't go any further. We will have a well two hundred meters from the previous one, or, rather, from the fourteen previous ones, because in this same field there have already been fourteen surveys from the year 55 to the year 97, at a time when environmental awareness was not what it is today. And Subijana's aquifer is still there at the moment. The administrative process follows its course, we will see what the resolution of the ministry is, and from there we will see how this procedure follows. I insist that we need to know the resources, and to value them we need to investigate. We have to investigate to know, and to know to decide. And I'm going to finish up, Mrs. congressman. Everybody's been using big fras right here in the past few years. Mr. Otero is going to Rome. I'll stay closer to home on the Zzartz side. And when I was a kid, I'll repeat what I learned to Imanol Urbieta. "To go alone and free, we must clear the way at night." And that's what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams together Podemos, Mr. Becerra, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u32	Thank you, Mrs. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We've been looking for gas in Araba for a long time. Since the beginning of the 20th century, multiple perforations have been carried out (Zúñiga, Urbasa, Zuazo, Lagrán, Sobrón... ), and you know what? That nothing worth finding has almost never been found. They are smaller, difficult to exploit and even more difficult to make a profit. There are already more than fifty explorations in these hundred years, and in the end nothing at all. During all this time, perhaps the most promising site has been Campo Castillo, which is where the Armentia-2 survey is intended to take place, which is now being debated. However, as I say, this site is not new either (as Mr Grajales has said, there have already been more than fourteen surveys), as are not accidents and mistakes made in trying to explore their potential for gas production. For example, I don't know if they'll know that in 1960 the Castillo-1 probe caused a gas leak to a nearby whirlwind. Did you know that the drilling company had to buy electric kitchens for the neighborhood at the risk of explosion due to its escape? Only a year later, in 1961, in the Castillo-2 probe there was a serious error of operation during drilling, which caused the Subijana aquifer to come into contact with the formation of Garate limestones. Luckily, the aquifer had more gas pressure than the Garate limestone formation, and the water flooded the formation. If it had been the other way around, the gas would have entered the aquifer. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, know that the Subijana aquifer is the most important groundwater supply of any Arab, with a capacity equivalent to that of the Urrunaga reservoir? Did you know that the PNV demanded in 2012 to protect this aquifer, because it is the only alternative in case of drought, and I quote textually? Thirty years later, already in 1997 – and I'm still talking about the same field – a new survey was proposed, this time called Armentia-1. It could not be completed, part of the Balmassed rock formation collapsed during the drilling phase, affecting the main well. And yet, and although it is not the usual or the desirable, for more than four years that well was producing and selling gas under the test figure, thus avoiding paying the fees stipulated for passing the permit of the research status to production. And it was in charge of SHESA, our government's public hydrocarbon society, who made those decisions. Twenty years later, history is now repeating itself, and last June the intention is announced to explore a gas well called Armentia-2 in the surroundings of Vitoria. It is as if time had not passed for this Government, as if we had not learned from the mistakes already made. Fifty years later, we continue to bury public money in projects of the past that are not going to solve the country's energy supply, but that do or may put at serious risk the health of people, the drinking water reserves we have, and even the future of many farms and livestock whose survival depends on Vitoria, Araba and Euskadi maintaining a healthy environment. Because, unlike what has been transmitted to the media, from Elkarrekin We may consider that the Armentia-2 well is not a simple exploration well to know the gas reserves. The gas reserves are well known, Mr Grajales. They've known each other perfectly for 50 years. There have been multiple attempts to produce gas, and so many failures. In the opinion of Elkarrekin Podemos, it is no coincidence that this project is now, just now, when this Parliament and this Government have renounced the use of fracking as a method of prospecting for hydrocarbons in our territory. We must not hide that there are great interests around fossil fuels, and they also exist in Euskadi, and these interests seek to keep alive the flame of the past – understand me the play of words – and resist passing a page of history that has led us to change the climate of the planet as never before had happened. And it is these interests, always opaque and almost always hidden, that move their threads in the shadow. And so, for example, in September, as has already been said, the Ministry of the Environment paralysed the regular environmental impact assessment, replacing it with a simplified assessment which implies that the public exposure of the project and the presentation of citizens' claims are avoided. And in view of this situation the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz itself considered that this decision constitutes a loss of social participation. Gasteiztarras and gasteiztarras have the right to comment on a project that can affect both their lives and their properties. Are we going to deny them that right? It is the interests of the fossil fuel sector that force projects such as Armentia-2. They sell gas production data that may never be met; they sell energy independence expectations for the country that are not real, and they sell false safety for people and the environment. Because, if conventional gas exploitation in Araba has never yielded results, what will change now to make it different? If no private company has decided to exploit this well, why would it be? Did you know that in 1964 in the Castle-3 well, in the same formation, an attempt was made to "stimulate" (in quotes) the production of gas even with explosives? And guess what happened? Which didn't work either. Why is it going to work now? What techniques are they going to use? And if there were any contingencies, I ask here now, who will assume the legal and political responsibility for what happens? Of course, to Elkarrekin We are concerned that the response of some groups in this House, to a threat of this silence to the population of Vitoria-Gasteiz, is only to invoke in its amendments the compliance with the Basque law against fracking. Mrs Red has said that this is not a debate on fracking. Why then do the two amendments to the whole point to compliance with the law of fracking? It gives the feeling that on the one hand they trust blindly that SHESA officials will ensure that everything goes well. But has it not become clear that SHESA is now part of the problem and not part of the solution? Has anyone ever wondered who or who put the fracking helmet in Mr. Lopez's head in his day? As long as Euskadi does not permanently close the doors to fossil energy, as long as we do not devote our political and economic efforts to developing our own renewable energy sources, there will be no hope for real change either in our economy or in the climate of the planet. And so, while in Euskadi we are going to bury 27 million euros in this well Armentia-2, in Germany fifteen years ago they decided to invest 100 billion euros in a development plan in renewable energies that has put them at the head of Europe in producing electricity from the sun. And it did not take eighty-five years, Mr Grajales: in fifteen years they have managed to get 25% of their electricity from the sun, and they have much less than in Euskadi. And it has also allowed them to create almost 300,000 quality and stable jobs, which we are giving up here. That German plan, said in passing, was approved thanks to the presence of the Greens in the Government of Germany, of course, because there are also alternatives, and in Elkarrekin We have those alternatives. Today, in the middle of the 21st century, it is not worth spending any more money to know if there is any gas under our soil, when we already know that here, on the surface, we have clean and cheap energy, which only needs enough momentum and political ambition to be a joyful reality, and not paying attention to renewable energies is to turn our backs on the future. Therefore, from the Elkarrekin We can vote in favour of the non-legislative preposition presented by EH-Bildu, because, in our opinion, it is the most consistent for both the future of the climate and to protect today the citizens of Gasteiz from this new fossil waste. Mila esker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u33	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing on the answering round, representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u34	Well, it's not gonna give me time to answer everything, obviously. It's a shame, because there's a theme. I think it was Einstein who, when asked about what the third world war was going to be like, replied, "I don't know what the third world war is going to be like, what I do know is that the fourth is going to be stoned." What I mean by this is that instead of accusing us of wanting to use candile, perhaps what leads us to use candile is precisely to continue insisting on the bets in which it is insisting. About what Mrs Ocariz has told me, it is already sad to talk from the atril mentioning the twitter, and I don't know if you consider yourself part of the popular of Álava, but yesterday afternoon, at five o'clock in the afternoon, you were talking about that you can't invest 27 million euros, nor can you open wells of 5,500 meters. And today you have the opportunity to vote on a non-law proposal that will paralyze the bill, and then we'll see. Because if you abstain, this is going to go on. That's very clear. In the City Hall of Vitoria, Mr Iturritxa said that it is not acceptable to justify the transition to gas and to do so in the environment in which it is to be used. The use of hazardous substances, the drilling of aquifers and chemicals cannot be allowed on the Vitoria Mountains. I don't know what's going on with the People's Party. As we go up from instance, it seems that we are beginning to have more problems understanding people's problems. I'm not gonna say much more about that. The only thing that measures a little when it says things, because it has made a completely..., not rigorous, let's say so: that if we turn off the light correctly we all have a saving of 70%. I remind you that 80% of energy in this Autonomous Community is consumed between industry and transport. So we would be talking about about a 20% capacity for action, anyway. About Mrs. Red. I said the fracking debate is over, eh! The fracking is over. Whoever's talking about fracking is Euskadi Hydrocarbons, and I've read the memory. I'm not the one talking about fracking. I'm talking about unconventional gas. And gas is an unconventional gas because the field is an unconventional field. And we'll have an opportunity to ask SHESA for explanations, because that was never in doubt: it's unconventional gas. What can be conventional or not is the extraction technique, but the gas is non-conventional. Let's be clear about that. I had a chance to have been understanding that a little more humble, to have put a little profile. I know it's not a project of yours, but it's that the PSOE is banding after banding with the issue of hydrocarbons and renewable energies, and the banding gives them according to whether it's in the government or in the opposition. When you were in the government here you went to Texas to take the picture, then you turned against it and flagged the fight against fracking. Now they are back in government, and now they are back in support of the extraction of unconventional gas. I believe that the Socialists, in the drift, have spent a short time, in a short time, to place – and if they have done something very well – to place the Kingdom of Spain, in the days of Zapatero, as a pointer in the installation of renewable energy and pioneer in the technological sector of the sector, to be today, to have the role of holding the drilling machinery of the PNV to make holes. And that in both life and politics has a name, but it has a rude name, so I'm going to explain it differently. Let's say that in this film what you come to be is the Sancho Panza, let's say, of a project that is at this point completely quijotesco. Because the project is quixotesque. Here what's happening is that SHESA doesn't want to get out of the dumb. BNK Petroleum is gone, the lobby Shale Gas Spain is gone, there is no longer a chance to get this out with profitability. SHESA knows, what happens is that SHESA has to continue to self-justify its existence, and the only way to self-justify its existence is to continue to suck on the public boob, because it has no other possibility. Because SHESA never produced, never exploited a site in the Autonomous Community, and still does not. So, what is not understood is that from this government, which last year allocated 0.2 million in renewable electricity generation (these are EVE data, in the diagnosis we agree), now it turns out that it will allocate a lot of millions of euros to go after this project. We agree – and I finish with this – on the diagnosis. What we disagree with is who is responsible for this situation. Because, of course, saying that this is a very dependent community is very good, but do not remember that you have been driving the boat for forty years and bringing us to this situation, because it is, at least, an omission too great. And since you've started with Imanol Urbieta, I'll take that thing and I'll end up with Imanol Urbieta. And he said: "Once for all, once for all, firm as simple, we won't give up." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u35	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u36	Mr Otero, we can again perceive that EH Bildu does not like energy saving and efficiency policies. You didn't like it in the previous legislature, you never proposed anything on this subject, and neither here. Behind an industrial project and who designs there are people; behind the transport projects there are people. Mr Otero, you don't like this subject! They have never proposed in this House, and seek it out, a single energy saving and efficiency initiative. They don't like it. And also, look, from the People's Group we have doubts that EH Bildu wants to participate in the debate that is taking place right now and where we are immersed all the European countries and the world, which is in the evolution of energy policy, what we call the energy transition, which we have to do because we committed ourselves to the Paris Summit, which you seem to recognise as a whole, which has recently been ratified. But we doubt that you will be willing to participate. Mrs Red, for starters, and to make things clear, I understand that the Basque Socialist Party does not support the government. It is part of the Government. He says the government is in compliance with the law. No, if I have no doubt that I will abide by the law! What we need to know is what the law is for, what the law is for, which is to spend 27 million euros on what. Man, may you, from your socialist concept, give equal consideration to what you are going to invest 27 million euros in the public treasury, so I am already surprised; let us not question what the objective is. Because the goal is nothing. Mr Becerra has told it, he has told it perfectly: it is nothing. It is to bury, in one hundred and seventy days, 170,000 euros each day, sands, pipes and other materials. Hey, it's gonna be all right, hey! He's gonna give it to himself! Mr Grajales, gentlemen of the government, your attitude and the way you deal with it has all the ingredients to raise all possible suspicions. And it's that you don't clarify anything at all, you're opaque. Just as it is opaque SHESA, so are you, very opaque. They start it, as I told you before, just when the government cannot be controlled; there is not a single report that justifies guarantees of success in this exploration; they do not give a single data, they delay the answers... I wonder, as I said before, what has precipitated at this time to start the processing of this dossier? That gas is a cleaner source of energy than others does not justify exploration in a well that has no face to be profitable. No one doubts that it is one of the cleanest energies, but that is no justification for them to make the trip to spend EUR 27 million for nothing. Well, for some, yes; for some, it's like I'm touching the lottery, that's clear. Look, from the People's Group we are clear that we need network stability, and that is why we need a mix of technologies that will guarantee us the volume of energy we are consuming. From the People's Group we are betting on an energy model based on three major objectives, aligned with the legislative package – as I said before – that the European Commission has put into debate and approval. First goal, energy efficiency, achieving 30% of energy in 2030... The cheapest energy, the cleanest, is not consumed. Doing more in need of less energy, that is a goal, and to that, Mrs Red, some of that EUR 27 million could be allocated. Of course they can be used! But no, you choose to bury them, directly. As I said, energy saving and efficiency actions can be carried out in different sectors, such as building, road transport, railways, public lighting, etc. Look, there's a lot to do here that we don't move forward. The second objective is to achieve a share of 27 % of renewable energy in the final energy consumed in 2030. Spain is very advanced; this Autonomous Community is delayed. You have done absolutely nothing! It's true, they're wasting their time! Opportunities that you don't take advantage of. Good thing we have a public company! Hey, you don't take advantage of them! The less we have the EVE! Listen, no, that's that they don't take advantage of them, that we don't get to just normal percentages. And we spend, yeah, we spend like there's no end. And the third objective is to empower the consumer in general, and especially the vulnerable consumer. Competitive prices and affordable prices, and that energy saving and efficiency measures, such as those which contributed to the expansion of renewables, do not affect the price of the consumer's receipt. Those are three important objectives. You guys... what's your model? Spending the public era. For what? We don't know! And the Socialist Party supports him, of course. The Government is composed of both, and both share that goal, Mrs. Red.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u38	Thank you again, President. To be clear, Mrs López de Ocariz, the Socialist Group supports the Government. The Basque Socialist Party is part of the Government. It's a matter of dialectics, don't look for traps. No, the Socialist Party is part of the government. I am part of the leadership of the Basque Socialist Party, and I am delighted, because I think that is what we have to do to improve the lives of the Basques. That's like nuance. Second. You say 27 million euros for nothing. That's what you'll say. What do you mean, for nothing? That's what you'll say! When the budget debate comes ask, ask questions to the Government, be vigilant, as the work of the opposition, because you are the opposition, and we will see the answers you receive from the Government. But emptied categorical assertions of judgment are therefore as free as coming to the rostrum and saying them. But, come on, so far, that was the intervention you made in this second round. But... I wasn't going to tell him, but I'm going to tell him. You say, "Renewable, we are at the tail of Spain, Euskadi the worst, lack of investment..." That I believe could have been done more, that is to be clear, but if there is a party that has drowned the policy of renewable energies, it is the People's Party. I mean, what do you come here to teach lessons! Review Mr Rajoy's policy, and talk to the ruined entrepreneurs who have made investments in renewable energy. Pardon me, the People's Party changed the rules of the game in the middle of the game. So, don't come here and give lessons from the renewables bet, when you are the cause of the numbers we have today in Spain as regards renewables. So, finally, a little decorum when talking about certain things. I'll give Mr. Otero the reason for what Zapatero did. Really, he did it right, he did it phenomenal. This House knows well that I am an advocate for Mr Zapatero, and then I cannot tell you more that you are right in the appreciation you have made. If Spain had not voted for Mr Rajoy, then we would have gone along that line, it would have continued and we would have been talking about other things, but, well, you know, the sovereign people vote and so we are. And, as far as what we're here to talk about today, bandages, none. And it is unfair for you to say this, because you know how it came to the end of the PSE's political stance on fracking. And you know... And Mr. Becerra... I didn't expect more from Podemos than Mr. Lopez' helmet, because whenever I've talked to him he never talks about anything but the helmet, and obviously there's the picture. Anyway, the fracking was talked about in Euskadi... You've told us about 61 already. I mean, where was Patxi López? I just don't know if there was... I was almost born. I tell you, not bandages. You know that when Mr López, with Mr Becerra's helmet, was talking about fracking, he always put three conditions sine qua non: technical, environmental, and economic. Three fundamental mentions that the councillor also said, that now I do not remember what was called, that of Industry (it is true, Barnabas Unda). I always used to say that. And you and I have always discussed those premises. Mr. Lopez never said yes to fracking. And I invite you today, just as I invited you eight years ago to look in the hemerotecs when the PSE said yes to fracking. Because we are not on the banner, it is that we are on something else, and you know how it came to this: once you work on the subject of fracking and you see that those three conditions together could not be given, the Socialist Party of Euskadi begins to work, at your hand, to end in the law that today has Euskadi, that you know that without the Socialist Party it would never have been possible. And you know that the platform left hairs in the catera, the Socialist Party also left hairs in the catera, but today there is a law that looks at the rest of the autonomous communities. So, bandages, none. You would have to be delighted with the political work carried out by the PSE on the subject of fracking, and you know it perfectly well. What is disturbing the position you have to defend here with regard to me, specifically? Well, I'm sorry, but this is the way it is. The PSE never said yes to fracking. We have been one of the protagonists of the text we have adopted, and I therefore invite you to present in this House, in the Chamber, when some Basque socialist said so, because it is not true. Therefore, I think we should talk when at least not missing the truth, because that is false and you know it. And to end this with the candile, which I know you liked very much in yesterday's city council debate, the PSE does not accuse Bildu of wanting to use candile. What we accuse him of is that his energy policy leads us to the candillas, which is different. Because if we're closing doors, if we all say no, but we don't propose alternatives at all, we'll end up in the candil. I told you in my first speech that I understand that I don't want that and that you don't want it, but put it on the table, and if you want to end SHESA bring an initiative. Bring her! Mrs López de Ocariz has already told you that she will vote for it. And the rest of us will position ourselves. But you can't come here and talk about something that doesn't come in your original initiative. And, Mr Becerra, to conclude, here we have talked about fracking because in the original initiative, if you read it to yourself, in the expository part and in the justification of urgency, it is Bildu who speaks of fracking. That is why the amendment agreed with Mr Grajales talks about fracking. Because here we are all old acquaintances, and here surprises in this House few. It would be good if someone were surprised from time to time, but, as we already know each other, we already knew where to go for debate. And this is what it's like to put the bandage on before the wound, and it looks like we got it right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u39	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u40	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Don't worry, Mr. Otero, we don't have time. We have four years ahead of us. Following on with the big dates, I'm going to throw at the great philosopher of the 20th century Louis Renault when I tell him that "this can be the beginning of a long friendship." But let me tell you that you cannot say one thing and the opposite in the same speech. You can't say..., well, you can't say one thing and the opposite in the same speech if you're not from the People's Party, you go to talk by institution; you say one thing in the City Hall of Vitoria, you say one thing in the General Councils, you say another thing here, and I don't want to tell you what they say in the Government of Spain. And because I did not see what they put forward on this in the European Parliament, because we would go for the fifth. In any case, I believe that in the same speech it cannot be said that there has been no citizen participation here, and that at the same time we are taught the famous report of the technicians of the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz. Of course there's been a turnout! There has not been a double turn, there has not been a participation in which everyone who wants to participate is allowed to participate, but it seems to me that a participation of thirty involved agents (institutions, administrations, environmental groups, people affected)... In short, it is certainly not ideal; it is what marks the law at this time, which we may like more or less, but it is what must be followed. And I think that's what both the City Council of Vitoria and the Provincial Council of Álava have done, to express their doubts about it. And now we're gonna have to see what's out there. Anyway, I was telling him that we have four years to keep talking about this and that on the way we will meet, and I believe and hope that it will also be for good. If you also, although late, continue to recognize the greatness of Xabier Arzalluz, it will be much easier. [[Barres]] Finally, with regard to SHESA and closure, which, although it has not been raised today directly and openly, has somehow fluctuated throughout the debate, I must be very rare, and it must be that neoliberalism that comes out of the pores that makes me feel strange, because I think that having a public society to investigate, in this case hydrocarbons, is a luxury. We have a company that has experience of more than thirty years of activity and with top-level technicians. In fact, it is the only such company in the whole state. And it seems to me that it is an absolute guarantee of transparency, maximum rigour and environmental respect. It is that, if we did not have a public company dedicated to this, this would be done by the companies directly engaged in this matter with the ministry of the People's Party, which precisely does not defend, as I said before, what Mrs López de Ocariz defended here today, and much less what Mr Iturritxa defended yesterday in the City Hall of Vitoria, that if you did not look perfectly to the left and much more radical than Mr Otero when he participated in the platform against fracking. In addition, it is not true that the strategic objective of SHESA is contrary to the agreements signed on climate change. The SHESA activity is part of the Euskadi 2020 Energy Strategy, which in turn is fully coordinated with the Basque climate change strategy. And if this is a quixotesque, Sancho Panza is me, not Mrs. Red. From Podemos I draw much attention, moreover powerfully, to how they always set Germany an example in this. Mrs. Angela Merkel's Germany. It's just that Germany has been investing a lot in recent years, and they've come in renewable energy at 10%! They have reached 10% in renewable energy, while they continue to use 25% in coal, and while they continue to use 34% in petroleum derivatives. They have 23% natural gas and 10% renewable energy. That they've made a lot of progress? Sure! And they're still in prehistory! You will tell me, 25% coal and 34% petroleum derivatives, while here the use of solid fuels is infinitely lower. I insist on what I proposed in my first speech: you have to investigate to know, and to know to decide. We have tools for that, and it would be an absolute irresponsibility to give up that knowledge. We are therefore in the midst of a debate in which scientific and technical rigour should prevail first and foremost, and the citizen's well-being should be sought. And I'm not going to end up with Land Rover, Mr. Otero, but I'm curious, but I'm not. We're almost at Christmas and I want to finish this speech with good wishes. Please, I'd like to ask Santa Claus not to let anyone have coal in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u41	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Together the representative of the Podemos, Mr Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u42	Well, we've heard, aside from the speaker's speech, we've heard relatively different speeches, but that the rest of the groups agree on three important issues. One is climate change, the other is not fracking, and the other is renewables. However, I do not think these are coherent speeches. And they're not because they're opposed to fracking in the first place. Because, despite the fact that it is in the explanatory statement of the proposer's non-legislative proposal, we believe that it is a conventional gas exploitation ( Mrs Red said, Mr Grajales said), and, if it is a conventional gas exploitation, I say again, it is to put the bandage before the wound to talk about fracking in its amendments to the non-legislative proposal. And I say to Mrs Red that, if you really maintain that policy, be very careful, it will not be that a conventional exploration becomes then a production based on fracking. And ask yourself why the questions that have been asked from this Parliament to the relevant department have not been answered, why they have not been answered in time and form and a request has been made for an extension of deadlines. If the project is already defined, that information should be here at the parliamentary seat, and it is not. In any case, it is incongruent that we talk about defending gas, whether conventional or non-conventional, and that we try to promote the fight against climate change. Burning gas does not act against climate change; its amendments to the non-legislative proposal are totally inconsistent. And yet climate change is being fought by promoting energy savings and efficiency on the one hand (and I love to hear that the People's Party is on that path, because then we will have plenty of opportunities to find ourselves on that path), but also by promoting renewable energies. And how are renewable energies promoted to be truly effective? How do we follow the path of Germany? How do we follow the path of Germany, which still... Is that what you're talking about? What you have said is not 10%: it is 25% of electricity coming from the sun. 25%, do the math, Mr. Grajales. We need four things to promote renewables: political will; leadership and institutional leadership, which does not exist; political decision-making, and above all economic investment. Obviously, we cannot develop the Basque autochthonous renewables, which also exist, if we do not put money. And what could we do with 27 million euros dedicated to renewables and not buried in a gas well? Because we are aware that the energy transition model is based on savings and efficiency, and is based on renewables. And it is true, and you are right, Mrs López de Ocariz, that gas is needed as a transitional energy, but the more you invest in renewables the less that transition will be. We do not need eighty-five years, as Mr Grajales has said. And, above all, we don't need Araba's gas, whether conventional or unconventional. Because this government put a lot of money into a regasifier that brings gas from abroad, which is now operating, a few months ago, at 10% of its capacity. And a lot of money was invested in combined cycle power plants, and out of the four we have in Euskadi, at best, one is working, and half a gas. So, right now, the conventional gas that exists on the market is much more profitable than Araba's gas. And this is not a question of whether it is autochthonous or not. The autochthonous thing we have in Euskadi is, many or few, renewable energies, to which this Government has long turned its back. Then, I would tell you, in conclusion, not to put confidence in SHESA, because what SHESA carries – by paraphrasing Mr.Gajales – are thirty years of failure after failure. And this is one more failure that will cost us 27 million euros to all Basques and Basques. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 29; the contrary, 37; the whites, 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u44	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 9; the contrary, 29; white, 0; Abstations, 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u45	This correction is not therefore accepted. We'll next vote for the entire correction signed by Eucabertists and Basque Socialists. We can vote. (The halt. Please put down those banners. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 38; white, 0; abstinence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u46	So he didn't accept it. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of Podemos as a parlamentary group together, concerning the proposal made from CEAR Euska to guarantee the rights of refished persons. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team together, Podemos. Mrs. Guanche has her word to introduce and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u47	Good noon, everyone. And thank you, Mrs. President. Partners, congressmen. Hello everyone, hello to those upstairs. You don't usually have a chance to join a forum like this, that's why we invited you. Welcome refugees, welcome neighbors, welcome to the village. We're here today to talk about refugees, and I'd like to start by reminding you of this speech. For we know that they are vitals, and not data, which make us most move and disturb our fellow-citizens. We want you to reward me for memory, which is Euskati's memory. The citizen was forced to send away his Basque exile, exile. These [were] taken and helped, when their rights and their protection [were] nothing but the will of their countries. Euskadi's memory, from which his people had to leave in indecent conditions to France, Belgium, Mexico. Memories of people who inevitably cross paths with those of those who today flee from war, forced marriages, trafficking for sexual exploitation, homophobia and femicide, among so many other possible persecutions, looking for a place to live with dignity. Memory of people who from time to time and from one side to another show the world the great capacity they have to resist and rebuild if we give them the opportunity. As CEAR Euskadi puts it in the petition that has been sending us to the various parties and from where today's initiative is born, there are more than 65 million people who have had to flee in search of refuge. It is our duty to comply with the law and to welcome those who come, reaching out to them the hand that we have had in the past. Solidarity is a characteristic, but also a duty of peoples. We believe that only from there will we be able to build a space in which we all fit and in which the framework of human rights is a maximum inviolable, irrevocable. Today, again, in this framework of human rights, we have been able to reach an agreement by the majority of the House, an agreement that shows two issues. That most of us are not all, and therefore within a framework of minimums like the one we are presenting here today, we portray each and every one of the seventy-five people who are or are not in this House. And, of course, we also portray the priorities of the organizations to which we belong. Also, this agreement shows that there are bases on which to build agreements that open the wall of at least some territories of the fortress Europe. Euskadi must be one of them. We have come here, among other things, to contribute to making that possible. Refugee is the person who, as defined by the Geneva Convention and the New York Protocol – and let me read it textually – "has well-founded fears of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinions, is outside his country of nationality and cannot or because of such fears does not want to benefit from the protection of such a country", or who, "lacking nationality and finding himself as a result of such events outside the country where he had his habitual residence, cannot or because of such fears does not want to return to him". This definition – which, if they do not know, is that of the year 51 – lacks recognition of persecution on the grounds of gender or sexual orientation, which is timidly reflected in the current Asylum Act, signed in 2009. However, there are still tasks in understanding this concept, which we believe are within the scope of politics, and in this regard we appreciate the aspects that complement today's initial proposal from Elkarrekin Podemos. And we do it for several reasons. We believe that it is essential to reactivate the intergroup and clearly define how the fulfilment of the requirements for access to the status of a refugee named in the compromise proposal is achieved, because there are issues that at least give us much to think about. The increase in internal armed conflicts, the increasingly restrictive migration policies of the states, the growing difficulties in gaining access to a secure country, the new forms of persecution, such as those established by large corporate corporations by the monopolization of natural resources, the androcentric and heteronormative definition of international treaties, all of them and many others, make the right to asylum at risk today, but also require urgent revision. Review, because in Europe it has more weight and legal certainty for its implementation a treaty of dark free trade that violates the rights of territories and individuals, such as CETA, than the declaratory conventions that regulate our rights, those of all people. Review that it must certainly conform to new times and new risks, and that it must be endorsed by the human rights framework, always and without question. Review that should refine the definition of migrant and refugee, because, in many cases, where is the limit?, where do we focus on policies and rights? We cannot create citizenship first and second, and, in any case, we cannot lose sight of the fact that migrants cannot be any less subject to the law, nor have any less right to live with dignity, and that they, all of us, human rights recognize in their article 13 the right to move freely, to choose our residence in the territory of a state, as well as the right to leave any country, including their own. Review of the right of asylum, because we cannot stand by the necropolitics that leave more than 4,000 people dead this year in the Mediterranean, without anyone assuming any consequences, and, worst of all, without anyone seeming to care. Review, because the persecution of people struggling to save their lives is much greater today and of a much more complex magnitude than in the 1950s, and because, of course, we are all responsible and we have a duty to contribute, from our sphere, to the construction of a healthier, fairer society in which all human beings have the right to live lives that are worth living. Review, because the Spanish State, of the 15,000 asylum applications received in 2015, only resolved 3,200, and of these only accepted 31%, implying the granting of only 220 refugee statuses. Because in 2015 the Spanish State took the number 13 position in countries receiving applicants for international protection, being one of the southern borders of Europe. And that's strange, but mostly worrying. Because, although it is true that there is no direct competence in the management of migration and asylum policies in Euskadi today, there are competences that depend directly on whether people have rights or not. On the one hand, it is necessary for Euskadi to engage and act in a manner consistent with his speech, urging the state government to fulfil its commitments, urging Europe to protect people. Enabling secure access to the border is a fundamental premise for working from the point of view of human rights. Betting on the externalization and militarization of borders, closing the way for them, or condemning countries such as Morocco or Turkey that value international protection, is the same as closing their eyes to the evidence that people will not stop coming, but will die more and go through worse conditions along the way. They have no alternative to stay, and it is not fair that, after stripping their countries for our benefit, we close the fences and put walls on those who have suffered the worst consequences of that stripping. On the other hand, it is essential to press for the fulfilment of the commitments made. It is a shame that, given the possibility and opportunity to welcome, today only 389 of the 17,337 committed persons have been welcomed, of whom only 27 have arrived in Euskadi. It is essential that we turn to finding solutions to ensure this commitment and to ensure acceptance. Let us encourage our municipalities to join the networks of shelter cities, and let us look for alternatives such as those that are already being found in other territories, so that, regardless of who takes the lead or who takes the photo, we give solutions to people. Finally, it is essential that we press for strict and impeccable compliance with the rules. It is not normal, and I hope this is understood, that since 2009 there has been no regulation to develop asylum rules, which, we know, does not apply with the same guarantee if it is not developed. In this regard, we support and will place our working capacity within the parliamentary intergroup for the protection of the rights of migrants and refugees. And we understand that the original proposal is reinforced by the contributions of the other groups. Eskerrik asko for reaching an agreement, but let us remember that, in any case, our role is to ensure respect for the rights of refugees and for the role played in this by the Basque public administration, guaranteeing access for all, including refugees, to all rights, as citizens who are here because they reside. We have a duty to ensure their access to the Basque system of social services, especially when, for one reason or another, they are left out. We have a duty to guarantee access to Etxebide, which today cannot be accessed and therefore its right to housing is far from guaranteed. We have a duty to ensure their access to professional language training, to support quality employment, adapted to their situation and their reality, and also to guarantee people's access to health from an integral point of view, paying attention to certain areas that may need to be attended to and today do not have them, such as mental health. We also have, and in a cross-cutting and comprehensive way, the duty to bet on education, on quality public education, to ensure that the inclusion of people starts at the base, from where we can really do something to make interculturality real, and the diversity in the classrooms in our cities something that we manage as the wealth that it entails, not as a bomb about to explode. We have a responsibility to create a framework for channelling the solidarity of citizens, which has once again taught us a lesson by turning to the denunciation of the criminal agreements of the fortress Europe, and which has also tried to help, but has not always been able or knew how to do so. We have an obligation to put an end to the discourse of fear, a discourse that paralyzes and impoverishes us; with their discourse faced with us, a discourse that not only does not achieve cohesion, but is little responsible and augurs for a future far from peace and coexistence. We understand that this does not sell and that it can cost us votes, but we bet on one Euskadi of all. Not from them in front of us, not from them against us. A Euskadi with memory, a welcoming Euskadi for all people. Hosting is defined in Spanish as "protecting or protecting", but can also be defined as "using some pretext to disguise or disguise something". Let's be brave, and let's open our arms. Let us not consider whether they are useful to us, for we must not forget that we must take and protect all men as they are men, for as society is our concern. Welcome, refugees.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula, Mr Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u49	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President and ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In the matter proposed to us by Mrs Guanche, the refugees and their situation, the key to our parliamentary group is always the search for agreement, the agreement above all in the reference frameworks: the agreement in the European Union, the agreement of the parliamentary groups in the General Courts, where these policies are decided and deployed. And it is also true that the first thing that needs to be done right now is to transfer our solidarity to so many victims of war, to so many victims of terrorism and radical barbarism, of poverty or dictatorships, who have to flee from their peoples, from their cities, and who seek refuge in Europe. That solidarity goes ahead. And we also express our concern about these ultra-attitudes in some countries, which take advantage of the dramatic situation of refugees to generate climates of hatred and instability, where radicalism and populism find ground for policies of marginalization and exclusion. And I have to refer to what has been raised on this issue, that of refugees, in the areas of decision-making (the Congress of Deputies on the one hand, the European Union's body), as reference elements. We agree with much of your non-law proposal, in this case the transaction, but we have our major discrepancies in two points, and I too have already expressed it to you. We have also done so in our amendments, which have not been full amendments, which have been partial amendments. We cannot support point 3, in relation to being against the European Union-Turkey agreement and calling for that support to be withdrawn. Yesterday the Foreign Minister himself, Mr Dastis, in a parliamentary appearance to set out the programme lines, the lines of government, I mean, of his department, appreciated the development of the agreement of 18 March, of the members of the European Council with Turkey. And he said exactly in that appearance that within the migration issues it is particularly noteworthy that created by the massive arrival of Syrian asylum-seekers and refugees and other nationalities on the Greek coasts from Turkey, in respect of which the declaration European Union-Turkey was adopted on 18 March. This declaration, while recognizing numerous obstacles, has proved to be effective in achieving its objectives, which were essentially to save human lives, to combat the mafia involved in human trafficking, and to establish legal channels for the reception of refugees through certain mechanisms. He also said: "However, difficulties and problems still remain, so we must insist on speeding up returns to Turkey, improving the efficiency and speed of procedures". It's there. That is why this issue, which today supports the Member States of the European Union and the Government of Spain, we too, logically, have to share it, or at least it is impossible for us to vote against this issue. It was also, and I would like to recall, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, also yesterday, who, in a parliamentary monitoring session in the morning, referred to the points which there are as 4 and 5 of the compromise amendment, which are those relating to commitments. And he said clearly yesterday, and I'll remember... , the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation assured that Spain will fulfil its commitments with the European Union to welcome by September 2017 the people to whom it has committed. And he said it clearly. I mean, the minister did it again yesterday. He said so in response to a question from a Member of the Socialist Party about measures to be taken in the face of the humanitarian emergency of refugees in Europe, and he has personally committed himself to complying with those agreements reached with the European Union. He said: "It is true that we have a commitment that we have not reached, but we must also bear in mind that we have a year to fulfil it, and I pledge that at the end of that year it will comply with all the commitments". The Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained this, that Spain works in a coordinated way with the European Union to carry out these transfers, according to the requirements and verification processes, and, in his opinion, the Spanish Government is – that was the minister's opinion, he said so – among those who have made the most of the Community partners. It may be questionable, but the Government's view is that. "We will take into account particular and humanitarian cases, but we must check, register, identify and make the examination because of the need for security, because the last thing we want to do is to give a page to those who are trying to identify refugees and terrorism. That's a game we can't fall for in any way." That is to say, we must have certain guarantees, which the Government must use in cooperation and in common with the rest of the countries of the European Union. Of course, the minister committed himself, and here are the important issues, the commitments of a government in relation to what has marked the policy of the European Union and its recent agreements. I believe that this union, which the Member States, and their democratic governments – and most of them, of course, far from ultrasic positions – can have a policy, a common position, a position that is going on. Although it may seem insufficient to some, it is, of course, what we need to safeguard at this time in order for the issue to turn out well. The Foreign Affairs Committee of Congress itself adopted on 2 November, and that is a point of reference, a non-legislative proposal on actions to address the humanitarian crisis of refugees, which must be a reference, which refers to issues raised in this very initiative before us. Of course, this non-legislative proposal of the Congress of Deputies made no specific reference, in the already approved final part, to the European Union-Turkey agreement. An important resolution for us, which talks about these issues raised, that is, commitments made last year, during this year, actions carried out and impulses to regulatory changes such as those that arise also in relation to asylum, coordination with countries, the search for political agreement between Europeans to flee from demagogy and radical hatred. I believe that these are issues that are very clear in the Official Gazette of the Congress of Deputies of 16 November, which details the non-legislative proposal adopted, collecting an initiative of the Joint Group and then supplemented with amendments from other parliamentary groups, in relation to undertaking commitments, promoting a common migration policy, intensifying efforts with the European Commission and the rest of the European Union member states in the framework of the debate already begun, contributing proportionally to the European Asylum Support Agency... That is to say, transpose the European directives on asylum and approve as soon as possible the regulation of Law 12/2009 of 30 October, regulator of the right of asylum and subsidiary protection (i.e. things that are already requested also in the transaction that you establish), establish protocols with the autonomous communities... That is to say, a 13-point relationship completed with the Government's obligation to appear twice a year before the Committee on Foreign Affairs to report on and report on the situation with regard to the resettlement and resettlement policy of asylum-seekers. Those are the reference issues, those are the issues that we really support, where that policy can really be done, in the Congress of Deputies (you also have your parliamentary groups there), as in the European Parliament, which is the best place to push those issues as well. And, of course, doing it here isn't bad either. I say again, we will oppose what we have to oppose, because we do not share the approach on the European Union-Turkey agreement, which is certainly and frankly improveable and we understand that it will be improved in the near future, but at the moment that is the instrument that, in the opinion of the governments of the European Union, may be working. In other words, in the Congress of Deputies their parliamentary groups have already positioned themselves in relation to the issue. We also supported him on those keys they did yesterday. We, I say again, did not table an amendment in its entirety; we agreed with much of the issues that were raised, and we tabled two partial amendments. Of course, we're going to keep that spirit. We will ask, if you do not object, a separate vote on the points that make up the compromise amendment, and hopefully you will be kind, and not recall recent precedents regarding preventing us from expressing our approach on these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning. First, I want to express in the name of the Socialists of the legislature to all the people who are in Turkey, Iraq, Germany, who have suffered violence and terrorism in these days. We stand beside them with all the people who escape violence, with whom they escape from those who hate their race, religion, nationality, or ideology. We fully share the statement of the CEARs last Tuesday. We want to express our sympathies to the victims of Berlin. But especially those who make use of criminalizing those who escape from this horror, we wish to show our condemnation. Because "welcome, welcome refugees" is not the first time that has been said in this Parliament. I remember the institutional declaration of 2015, the no-law proposal of 2016, and in this Parliament and in the Basque institutions we have said "welcome and welcome, refugees and refugees", always. But we can and must do so again, in this case driven by organizations such as CEAR Euskadi and Amnesty International, in order not to fall into complacency and oblivion, in order not to act as if all this had already happened, as if it had been resolved satisfactorily. Because it wasn't like that. Today, almost two years after that August 2015, the human catastrophe that refugees have suffered becomes, in the hands of those who should help them, we, their neighbours, in a second punishment. Because Europe proves that it does not want them, and with that, Europe and its states are just making excuses. They flee from war, from hatred, from persecution, from violence, and here in Europe we do not want them. And we apologize. I mean, we use them as excuses. They are the European excuses and most of the states that make up Europe. Excuses, even to the point of linking terrorism and refugees, without any doubt encouraging racism and xenophobia, always inculcating the seed of hatred. Of all this, the only thing that is true, following the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, is that Syrians, Iraqis or Afghans fleeing the civil war, having snatched everything from them and not being able to return to their land, will be expelled and expelled. They'll all be expelled in great numbers and no rights. It recalls the time of totalitarian and soulless Europe. When fascism surrounded everything, the value of that society had completely destroyed the genocidium, torture, murder, and lack of dignity. For all this, and for many more reasons than time will leave us, we reiterate the rejection of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, as well as we call on the Spanish State to withdraw its support for it. Because it is an illegal agreement, because it violates all the legislation on the right of asylum and subsidiary protection, because it violates the Convention on Human Rights, and because it violates the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees, and a good number, and a good handful of directives. But it's not just an illegal deal. This is an immoral agreement, considering – so said, in writing – that Turkey is a safe country. This is not sustained in writing or in reality, and in some cases it becomes even a joke, like that of Afghans when they are told that Turkey is a safe country. The agreement, however bad it may be, that of Europe with Turkey, is no worse than the existing Spanish legislation on asylum and subsidiary protection. It has already been said that it is not developed after six years, and, moreover, it has left a procedure to manage it slowed down, exasperating and long. It is also that Spain is not precisely a reference in this matter, which applies in our non-Community borders with its returns in the Melilla fence both collective and individual, in warm and heartless (it is said in cold), without the opportunity to make any recourse. For these reasons and for so many more than, I insist, does not give time, it is for this reason that we include this request to demand from the Government of the State the development of the Asylum Act and compliance with what has been agreed by Europe. For as for the reception places we speak of the same: year and a half later, they have failed. But also the case of Spain is paradigmatic, because, after the initial solidarity expressed (a lot of institutions came out, those that did not have competence, but that showed solidarity with the tragedy of refugees and refugees), the Spanish Government remained impassable. First, Spain could not act without the European authorities' approval. Once it was received, the issue was that we were in office; the next excuse for not fulfilling the reception quota, as if the protection of human rights, freedom, dignity, security and life of people were not a democratic obligation that is not an exception, even if you are in office. However, I must say that Basque institutions have not remained impassable. I really believe that they reacted, at the various institutional levels and with the competences they had, in a very firm way. And that is why we must continue to do so with the intergroup that is already created in this House and that we must use to – as the colleague of the Elkarrekin group said We can – come to fulfill all those proposals that, being in our hands and in our competence, we can agree on. That's also why we can't and don't want to keep making excuses when we don't have them. We didn't do it before, and we don't do it now. We have not done so in the municipalities (it is necessary to remember how many in Euskadi have asked to be a city of refuge); we have not done so in the parliaments, where it has been imagined to cover those people regardless of the way they had arrived or entered. In short, ladies and gentlemen, as a slogan of Amnesty International says, the world can change, but it will not change alone. Those of us who have agreed today to support the requests of CEAR and Amnesty International, and so many other humanitarian organizations with regard to refugees, have an obligation to do so, albeit gradually. Because Europe today is a political disaster and an ethical disaster. Europe today must be changed, and we must not give up changing it. Many people see, in the dramatic consequences of the refugee crisis and the indolent treatment of Europe with them, an opportunity to boost the European project in this sense of its initial values of freedom, justice and equality, which have been lost in some of the Brussels offices in recent years. Yes, it will be up to Europe to take the lead, to react, if it wants to continue to exist. It has before it a double disjunctive: to advance in political integration and the best decision-making, and on the other hand to close in band and bet to invest in more fences, concertinas and walls, which are now fashionable, leaving aside those values that have traditionally distinguished us from other global actors. The Basques, the Basques, however, in various surveys and opinion-takings have been shown to be mostly against this second solution, in favour of a dignified European response with refugees, in favour of the fulfilment of compulsory reception quotas, and in favour of a dignified response in accordance with international legality with refugees. Once again, as for two years and forever, welcome, refugees, refugees. This is your home.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'd like to welcome the guests who came to listen to us on behalf of the eubertarians. The proposal made from CEAR Euskati to guarantee the rights of the refracted persons, in words, has been made by the representatives of Podemos, as other speakers say. The eubertarians, on the basis of their demand, were thus informed by the representatives of CEAR, when the initiative was introduced to our party in the election campaign. I should say that our party, together with the Socialist Party, has two parts of the whole correction which has been introduced to the initiative: On the one hand, the style, which keeps the whole meaning of the fundamental initiative; and on the other hand, in the former law, we entered a particular point which confirms the continuity of the legal law for the rights of migrations and refugees. Even the EHG introduced additional corrections to set the work of the legislative team in motion. The attitude of the European Union and the State is incomprehensible. Where are the values that inspired the creation of the EU? Solidarity, humanity, responsibility, maximum respect for the human rights of all people... It is very sad to have thousands of people, including many boys and girls, who have fled their countries for situations of war and conflict waiting on the borders of the European Union for a new opportunity, a better life, far from the barbarism they have been suffering. How can they be explained that their nightmare has not yet ended?, that they must continue to suffer from Europe's inability to give an agile, effective and joint response to this truly emergency situation? It's inconceivable. It's been easy to get a large deal of harmony this evening. Because the position of the four groups which we have signed is clear and firm in the eyes of the emigrating and migrators, because we are on behalf of the human rights of all men, we must give a proper answer to all the people who pass the worst, those who are the weakest. In the compromise amendment we have included a fifth point, collecting the request that has been transferred to the various groups by Amnesty International: the Government of the State is requested to fulfil the commitment made in September 2015 to host 17,337 refugees, and to accelerate the process of moving refugees through their relocation and resettlement. More than a year has passed, and we are far from fulfilling our commitment. We must give an effective response to refugees as soon as possible. And I listened to you, Mr. Barrio, saying that yesterday the minister said that it was going to be fulfilled by 2017, but we're already very late. Look, yesterday was St. Thomas, and St. Thomas... to see to believe. In May, in the preceding law, when we discussed the question as opposed to the defence of the human rights of the refugees, the author of the rebel patriots was the spokesman of the group of the Aguirres. Then we also signed the middle-class Eucan patriots, Collectors and Social Partyists. Unfortunately, by the conduct of the European Union and of the European States, we recontest what we have already requested, for there is no remarkable progress in the fineties relating to the refracitors and emigrants. Returning to today's subject, to specify a little for each point. As for the first point, all the refracted persons who come to the Basques have access to public rights, services, and resources. People, all people, must be at the centre of government policy action, regardless of their origin and the way in which they enter. In this section, the request that we were being transferred from CEAR was, among other things, to establish criteria for access to social benefits that facilitate their obtaining, and not to suspend them. This request is aimed at facilitating bureaucracy in the paperwork needed to access aid and benefits, in the face of objective difficulties, in many cases, to obtain certain documentation required by the legislation in force. I believe that this could be one of the issues to be taken into account when we look at the review of social services legislation as a whole, but, in the meantime, we are obliged to comply with the legislation in force. So, here we are. All people are the shafts of beauty from RedMunch. This, as far as we are members of the legislature, we must also show that the laws which are established must always be fulfilled. You know we don't agree with the Instuition of the Laws, as we've often repeated it. As for the second point, it is to encourage and encourage the life of culture, that cities and peoples may be a real refuge. This is what's going on. That's where the Unions and the Views have all the work and reports. To highlight the anti-rumbling work of Biltzen, as well as the report of Ikuspegi on the economic-demographic impact of foreign immigration in the Basque Country. At the third point, to take a public attitude against the European Union and the Turkish alliance, and to confine the central Government to its preservation. We have already stated on countless occasions that we are against the agreement of the European Union and Turkey, so I will not go any further on this matter. As to the fourth point, the Government of the State requires the possibility of certain access to the frontiers, and the pressure of the several engagements taken in Europe. Bearing in mind, as has also been said, that competence in matters of foreign affairs and immigration depends on the Government of the State, we call upon it to comply with international human rights treaties, facilitating the acquisition by refugees of their rights, precisely because of their refugee status. The fifth point, as has been shown, is associated with what Amnistia the Internationale demanded. We ask the state to perform the commitment to 17,337 refugees as soon as possible. Remind me that commitment is from September 22nd, 2015, so it's time to complete. The sixth chapter, demands the government of the State to accept the regulation of developing Asilo Law. Some have also been told by other speakers. The regulations for the development of the Asylum Act have been pending for seven years, and it is also necessary to transpose European guidelines on reception, requirements and procedure into the State Asylum Act. We believe that we should no longer wait for such policy development. The latter point, as has been said before, demands the legislature again to resume the course of the legal activity of the legislature for the defence of the emigrants and the rights of the refugees. And in the end, the Popular Party, on our part, there's no problem in voting for points, and we hope they'll be accepted as many points as possible. We know it won't be all, but we hope most of it will be unanimously accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u55	Thank you, and good morning to all. And above all, welcome to all the citizens who came with CAR. Welcome to this parliamentary and, above all, welcome to the Basque Country. "Today we have another proposition on the table, as well as in this legislature, which will deal with the political controversy about the watering of the human rights of the refugees, and consequently the reception of this member of Euskal Autonomy to a distance of 1,000 people." No, I'm not mistaken in saying this. At the meeting of October 1st, 2015, these are the words spoken by the former member of the Parliament of the Basque Country of Diana Gold. And why do I want to start this intervention today? Because it's been a year since the Golde spoke these words, and we haven't even come near this number. We're far away from this anxiety which, at the very beginning of time, drove us all to work together. We are comfortable, and unfortunately it has become a habit to receive news about the common Mediterranean pit. In the year 2015, nearly 3.800 were the people who lost their lives in the Mediterranean water, and in the 2016 we are about to end our lives have already lost 4.900 people who have lost their lives. The thirds of these dead are the children of the Save the Child Society. Today, according to ACNUR, there are 6,3 million refugees in the world. These are data in 2015, which they are about to publish over the worldly tenedities which present it every year. And I'm afraid we'll break another wretched record. It is necessary to show the remarkable care of the European Union in these forced transfers to death. For the necessity which these men feel for leaving their births is a direct relation to the economic, commercial, and military policy which the European Union has with Africa or the Middle East. These policies have led the local population to an endless humanitarian crisis. It cannot be forgotten that the European nations had the part of Africa at the time of cologization: The systematic plunder, the breaking of the traditional continent structure, the unbalanced and arbitrary reorganisation, and the previously sought economic structure of subordination. And in front of all this, what are we doing? We're playing cards with the number of refugees except for the international humanitarian law mentioned. Do you remember how many hours we had when we were a kid playing war card? It was a game almost endless, and the goal was to be out of cards while the others had to keep their numbers. And we're playing, playing, playing with people's lives. In an endless game of cards, the numbers are up and down, and we don't want to stay with the set. As the game continues, we don't keep one at all. We've closed them in space where I would have dared to call the rebels a space of concentration, and while we're bargaining for a wretched quota system, extending our negotiations as long as we can, so that we don't take the number we've promised, see if the population forgets the refugees. But no, we don't grow. They were already rhymes if they were surprised and angry at the fair distribution, what to say a year later, when there is no sign of reaching these numbers at all. How many refugees have arrived in our village? Yeah, we know we're waiting for the Spanish government to do it. And, well, Mr Barrio, the government may have said what you're talking about, but I've got the data that Amnistia Internationale's been through, and Spain has taken only 2% of what you said. So in 2017, he should get a big shot to get to these data. But, though we must look at Spain, we think it important also to look at us, and I dare say that we ought to have a more active attitude, because if they do not do it, we must also find our ways. We have just heard that the Giant Foru Aldundia of Gipulia has just traveled to Greece to find out whether a woman is there, or whether she can speed up the condition of her children. He's nice, but we need more of these, we can't do one by one. We have to be prepared for this, too, and we can't wait. We can't wait, but especially the refugees can't wait. and if this system does not satisfy us, the European Union took another step in which we are extremely angry and concerned; Whilst each state agreed to determine the number of refugees which it would take, it was accepted the regulation which determines the immediate return of those who are in an irregular state of administration. We don't have to say that this is totally illegal. In the chromium game again. And who has found the European Union for a dirty job? Turkey. Several associations, what institutions of the people have denounced the agreement, to silence, to imprison, to torture, or to kill, to deliver Erdogan, to 6 billion euros in order to do his dirty work. What's Erdogan gonna use that money? Create protected and comfortable space for the refugees? Or do you buy curds for an accymium bombs? I did not see the spaces of dream refugees, but I saw them with these eyes, and with this body I felt the condition Sirna had utterly destroyed and bombed the country. I have seen a criminal policy which has forced the natives to move, a policy of coalition which produces more refugees. And we want to hand over the refugees to this person? Kobaniko herritarra den Kamak Save the Children elkarteari esan bezala: "Our goal is to save our children and give them a future. They're still emotionally very attached to their home, to their friends. There's nothing worse in the world than having to leave your land, your home. The kids at night didn't sleep over the bombs. Even if I had only one day to live, I'd go back to Kobani. We lived there very well, we didn't have to go out." If they came out, it was because they needed it, not because they had a whim. If they return, let it be because they have determined, because the state has improved, and not the laws and the inhuman states, as they wish. Europe has engaged to many things since this conflict exploded. But for the moment only two decisions are completed: Shut down the borders and sternize them. While we are playing the chromium game, the smaller small countries like Lebanon or Jordania have taken much more refugees. So let's not interfere. It's not about money, it's not about population, it's for will. And the institutions may not, but the citizens have will. Let us look more round us, and begin with the steps we need. It is a pleasure to make a treaty, and to appreciate the importance of the subject in the conduct of the majority of this legislature. But we can't forget that we've advanced very little in this year. This is why it is especially important for us to resume the intergrouping that will work on these issues. From here on we may urge each other to make the decisions which the Spanish Government has made, to continue to encourage the international laws, the recommendations of societies like ACNUR, to destroy the agreement signed with Turkey, and to begin our safe access. I'd like to finish it by praising the work of the associations that worked so hard. Civil society, popular, has also given us a lesson in this matter. We have seen that the solidarity of nations is possible, and that it starts every day. We're following him here, and we hope we'll be on the way, so we can make the road open and break the wall. As we cried out in several demonstrations: "Europe canalla, abre la muralla."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Guanche, representing Podemos, has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u57	I'll be quick. Mr. Barrio, the refugees who have come here to listen to us must be at least surprised. I am surprised, of course, when you say that your maximum framework is the search for agreements, not human rights. The solidarity that you put forward and the denunciation of the speech of xenophobia is at least curious, when you, on 9 December, submitted a question to the Government linking people who receive income security income with jihadist terrorism. At least, curious, apart from irresponsible and, in my personal opinion, incitement to hatred. I don't understand what kind of coexistence you want to build by doing these kinds of questions. Its limit is the agreement with Turkey. I wonder... According to the minister, things are working, but working for who? Because, of course, for refugees it certainly isn't. It's okay for you to defend your red line. We'll defend ours. It is clear that, in our case, an agreement that violates human rights and that, as colleagues have said, compromises illegality, or is directly illegal, we are not going to support it. I welcome the Minister's commitment to ending the reception of the people committed before 2017. Of course, we'll be vigilant. I also encourage you to speak with him and to urge him to seek the solidarity that you show on the southern border of Europe, where human rights are violated every day, and that is the responsibility of this State. Mrs Arregi, I am very pleased to hear what you have said about the willingness of the group (and I therefore understand the Government) to review the rules so that all the people who reside here are subject to the law. I don't know if I've been able to get it right, but in any case, we have time to keep working. Completely agree that it is essential to comply with the law in the meantime, but it is in our hands to change it, so let's get to work. Mr Barrio, I come back to you and to your request to vote for points on this proposal, because you, your party, do not agree to vote against the European Union agreement with Turkey. I have said this in the speech: the sense of the vote today portrays each and every one of us. We are not going to be from Elkarrekin. We can take away from you the opportunity to support issues that will serve this House and then demand consistency, which you are demonstrating today. There is a possibility of hosting, and what has to be there is also political will to do so. In conclusion, let us think of what decisions like today's ones are fundamental. We cannot conceive of the present Euskadi without the contributions of those who migrated in the past; we must not conceive of the future Euskadi without the contributions of those who arrive and those who are already here. That's why I can only say: Welcome to the refugees and thank you for coming.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, I also wanted to welcome the people of CEAR and, of course, the people who accompany them to this sitting of the House. And yes, Mrs Guanche, look, it seemed to me that I was questioning our commitment to human rights. No, I'm telling you, no. I tell you that our commitment to human rights is total, and of course you will not deny it to us. The price paid by the Basque People's Party has been very high, and on the frontline of our political and parliamentary action is respect for the human rights of all. And I'm particularly interested in your understanding of that. There will be political issues that we can discuss, but, again, on the frontline of the People's Party's ability to act is respect for human rights. Look, in general, what has been raised, I am not as catastrophic with the European Union as some of the interventions have been. I have hope, much hope in their performance and in the strength of union. I believe that steps are taken, some will be able to assess them as slow or insufficient, but steps are taken, and cooperation, co-responsibility, with many difficulties is constantly sought, but with determination. It is an approach that we understand. Look, it's been terrible to see, after the Berlin bombing, how the ultras (Le Pen, Farage, Pretzell, Wilders) against Merkel, also using refugees as an excuse... It has been terrible to see, but the Union's strength represents people like Angela Merkel, who, with their problems or difficulties, has fostered agreements between governments, as the Spanish Government has done. Well, well, they will be insufficient, but in any case, I want to make it clear that this is a fundamental issue. Today we are seeing problems and we will be able to analyze it. I very much agree with what has been said on one of the points, which seems to me to be a good way of working. The parliamentary intergroup was formed at the end of the last parliamentary term to talk about refugees, and I believe that this internal work is positive, it is good. The discussion is always taken advantage of by those who know that they are going to take advantage of it, those who want to divide. We want to continue to unite; at the parliamentary level, at the European level, that is our key, and of course walking through that... In other words, that initiative seems very good to me. Mrs Arregi and Mrs Etxebarrieta have re-emphasized the government's commitment, and I have already repeated it to her before, and I would also like to point out what the minister said yesterday. I insist, it is true that we have a commitment that we have not achieved, and I recognized it, and "there have indeed been many difficulties, but we must also bear in mind that we have a year to fulfil it, and I pledge that after this year Spain will comply with those commitments". I think it's an important matter, we're gonna stay there, and we're gonna keep an eye on him, too, why not. The Government, following the non-legislative proposal adopted on 2 November in the Foreign Affairs Committee, undertook to appear twice a year to discuss and evaluate these policies, also the European Union-Turkey agreement, and in this regard I believe that the issues are on a path that will surely be better, but they are, and we will all be paying attention. Mrs Romero in her speech gave the impression that it seems that the Socialist Party has never been in the Government of Spain. It seems that their Governments have never had to make decisions regarding asylum, or migration. I don't know, you've absolutely forgotten, haven't you? Socialist governments in Europe, in addition, Mrs Romero, have promoted and promoted, at the head of the European Union, the European Union-Turkey agreement! Socialist, social-democratic governments, of which you are part in your International, in your joint European action, in the European Parliament in the parliamentary group. The Socialist Parliamentary Group in the European Parliament, the majority of the socialist governments represented through their parties, have led to the agreement, rather than the declaration of the European Union-Turkey! And I don't know, you've been so furious about that issue, that, without going any further, I'm going to remind you of something from yesterday, just yesterday in the Congress of Deputies. Mr Sánchez Amor, who is a parliamentary spokesman in the Foreign Affairs Committee, said... Refugees and Turkey. He said: "I heard with satisfaction this morning that you," he replied to the minister, "committed to bring the refugees in accordance with the commitments of autumn 2015, and I think it is a commitment that I register and that I assume with satisfaction." On the one hand. Second: "We must also take care of that agreement with Turkey in what is good, which is that the deaths in the Aegean have ended, but also in what it has to watch over what Turkey does with the returned people." Mrs Red spoke of two speeches on the previous point in relation to our position in the institutions. This one of Mr. Sánchez Amor is diametrically opposed to his. I mean, we ask one more time, and we thank... There seems to be a willingness to vote by points, and we will call for a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u60	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Romero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u61	Actually, I'm not Mr. Sanchez Amor. He was born in Extremadura, like me, I know him, but no, I do not look with satisfaction at what the Government of Spain has done with regard to refugees and refugees, and I do not believe in the words that they are going to fulfill it in a year. These are not two speeches, because I hope that what Mr Sánchez Amor has not yet done has been to vote on something different from what the Socialist Group voted last time, which is to continue to reject the European Union's agreement with Turkey. And I reject it again. It's just that I say again that it's illegal, it's immoral, and it's also like a witch hunt. Right now an agreement has been signed, a pre-agreement between Syria, Turkey and Iran itself, to solve the issue of Syria and the war in Syria, and we are going to send refugees and refugees to one of the parties to continue to end them. If that is not immoral and not illegal, because it violates all human rights and their conventions, what is immoral and what is illegal? What is it? I can contradict Mr. Sánchez Amor, but I am glad that you contradict Mr. Manglano and the Deputy Secretary General of Castilla-La Mancha, that when a refugee was wrongly stopped for the Berlin bombing, the question was, on Twitter, "Welcome refugees?". That is what links refugees and terrorism, and that is what is recovering hatred, racism and xenophobia in Europe. I prefer to be wrong and to distance myself from Mr Sánchez Amor in the way I see the new minister, rather than in the fundamental values of this country, for this country and for the European Union. I never thought I'd see that without mentioning it here. It has not only been the extreme right of Europe: it has also been elements of the extreme right within the Spanish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Eternate patriot shouldn't speak a word. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u63	Thank you. Mr. Barrio, okay, we'll take care of those words from the Spanish Government member. But in the meantime we say that we must continue to work, that we must continue to look here also, and that we shall be allowed to do so in the presence of the few steps which are now and then making a complaint. I agree with you, too, with your intoxical champagne. And I had pointed out what Mrs. Romero said, unfortunately that some of your party members in Spain have shook the ghost. But, well, I'm glad you're here against it. And I believe even in this phantom, as it was expressed on one point, that we should have continued to do the work of this people, and that the toilets of this society should not have been affected so much, we think we must continue to work on it, because the ghost can also affect us, and it is a pity that it has some effect on us. We're not even responsible for voting, we're not the ones who fight. But we clearly mean our red line, though we disagree in it. We believe the accusation of the agreement obtained with Turkey is indispensable, just as so many members have repeated it, because it is absolutely immoral and often unlawful. And this agreement, which, amongst other things, animates us, is to continue to increase the size of the Moors we first spoke of, and to enlarge the length, which is the cause of it, as well as to hinder certain ways. And, for example, we used to talk about the Chinese hole in the Mediterranean, to find it in the last 16 years with that wretched number of 36,000 victims. And in these pre-eminent exiles, they have perished as illegal immigrants because the conditions we have placed were severe and ill. In many others, countries such as Hungary, France, or Spain, have, with all impunity, built murderers against the international humanity law, and in these the refugees have been seriously injured. And, well, doing all this doesn't solve the problem, it doesn't break the way of the refugees, it makes it more difficult, especially mafia. And for all that, we'll continue working on the safe roads, the Turkish deal. And seeing that there is a will to continue to promote such things, we hope that we can do good in this legislation. And not beautiful for us, because the beautiful will help us to guarantee the rights of all the people who are lost in those ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Now that the discussion's over, we'll go to the vote. No points requested. I guess no one's having trouble voting for points. So tell me how you want me to vote, Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u65	Yes, Madam President. The 1, 2, 6 and 7 together; the 3 apart, and the 4 and 5 apart.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u66	Four and five together?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u67	Together too, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u68	All right, all right. Then we'll vote together Podemos, Euskal Sozialists, EH Collect, and the Middle Amendors have signed 1, 2, 6, 7 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u69	So, the points we voted on were unanimous. Next, 3. We'll vote for the point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of the country, 66; the contrary, 9; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u70	So the third point is accepted. Finally, we vote for 4.5 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of 66; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u71	So it's 4.5. points have also been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal made by the Parlamentary People of Euscal, about the legislation program in this legislation. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Sémper, the agent of the Basque Potula team, is your word to present and defend the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u72	Eguerdi on guztioi. Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to you all. We are dealing with a debate that is not new, a debate that has been raised in this House in other legislatures, I believe that in all (as I have not been in all, I cannot say it quite clearly), but at least in the last legislatures we have discussed the need for a legislative timetable to be presented by the government in this House. A legislative calendar that, of course, provides the opposition groups with vital and fundamental information to carry out our work, our work, with guarantees: to know what the plans of Government are, to understand what the plans of the Government are at least (the intuition is not bad), and to know whether that intuition, whether those plans that the Government has expressed are being implemented. In other words, the work of the opposition is facilitated, and in any case we also contribute to the parliamentary debate, to politics in the end, we also contribute something about what we talked about last week, which is transparency. Transparency in government action and also transparency for citizens about the intentions of their Government and what work this Parliament is doing. It is, of course, a debate that has always been raised by the opposition groups. When the Socialist Party was in the opposition, it was raised; when the Basque Nationalist Party was in the opposition (which has also been in the opposition), it was raised the need, the demand of the Government to present a legislative calendar in this House, and the People's Party, which is in the opposition, which has always been in the opposition, also raises it with the same stated objectives, which are the ones I have just stated. But in addition, the Government Act in its article 8 also requires this. The Government Act requires the Executive to submit a legislative timetable. And there is also a general coincidence; beyond what particular laws and opinions tell us, all legitimate, there is a general coincidence in the suitability and the need not only to present a legislative calendar, but to comply with it, which is a fundamental issue, as I am sure you share with me. In other words, the introduction of a legislative timetable unfortunately does not guarantee its compliance, but for that we are the opposition groups, to remind the Government, when it fails to comply, that its commitments are not met. In that way, in the past legislature the Basque Government announced to us the presentation, the referral to this House of thirty-one bills, of which until May 2016 (until May 2016) only eleven had been passed, and we ended the legislature with a legislative apathy I think also evident, a legislative disdain that led to the figure, which raised the figure to the thirteen bills passed in this House. It is true that politics is not only based on laws, but a parliament, among other things, apart from controlling government action, also has, as you are sure to share with me, an obligation to legislate. It's between our functions. Of course, thirteen bills, of thirty-one committed, so it is not clear whether I wish to legislate, as I said before, but of course a more than obvious apathy. But we enter this legislature and the current government, the coalition government between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, announces us in its government agreement, in the document that we were referred to the opposition groups, announces to us a battery of legislative initiatives, of bills to refer to this House. Fifty per cent, 50 per cent of the bills committed in the last legislature are also committed in the legislature, making it seem reasonable to require the government to present its legislative timetable within a very short period of time. Because, if 50% of the total that they have announced to us had already committed it in the last legislature, it seems easy and it seems to be demanded, and reasonably required, that a two-month period be more than sufficient for the government to provide this House and the opposition groups with information as relevant as this is. Therefore, these are the fundamental arguments on which the non-legislative proposal we have put forward is based and supported. On the one hand, the need for a legislative timetable. Secondly – which, given the will expressed by the Government, seems easy – to present it to us as soon as possible. Councillors, you will have to tighten the accelerator a little bit, but nothing happens, I am sure that you share with us the need for this House to be vigorous and for the government to legislate properly in the interests of the Basques and Basques, with which you are all happy. However, we have reached an agreement, a compromise amendment between the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party, and I am also grateful, Mr Egibar, that you have reduced the six months you proposed to two. There they have accepted what is reasonable. Sometimes it costs, doesn't it, Mr. Egibar?, but it ends up imposing common sense. We are in two months, also accepted by the groups supporting the Government, but this cannot be a wet role; this has to be an obligation, it has to be a government commitment to this House. A commitment to the House to forward within two months a legislative timetable that gives us all information, that we know what the Government's priority projects are this legislature, and that therefore also facilitates the action of the opposition, the action of the Government and the much-needed transparency in the exercise of policy, as we discussed last week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u73	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u74	Thank you, President. Well, there are times, Mr. Semper, when you have a chance to show consistency. It is true that in this of politics there is also occasion to rectify and adapt to the times, but this was probably one of the occasions when your original proposal sought other things, not those you said in the rostrum. I was looking for a little bit of parliamentary agitation, maybe causing a defeat of the government partners, or finding a hole in the press, I don't know. Looks like the shots were out there, and luckily I say it in the past. Because the PP presented us with a very curious initiative, probably imbued with the Christmas spirit that seems to fly today this House, in which the lehendakari had to coincide with the Olentzero, because, according to his initiative, literally a month after the investiture, that is, the day after tomorrow, the plans of government had to be presented, with the Olentzero. I'm telling you, I understand that you really like Christmas, but you'll understand that it was a bit curious, won't you? And that is not what the PP stood for when it supported a government two legislatures ago, where a project was presented – by the way, not as you said – on a socialist initiative, a proposal for a legislative calendar was presented; nor what you stood for since the opposition in the last legislature, which is what we had originally brought here in an amendment with the PNV: that within a reasonable time, which we estimated six months since the investiture, the calendar of plans, the government program, etc. were presented. Besides, we brought him in. Why? Because it seemed reasonable to us, and secondly, because it received unanimous support from the House. And I say unanimously, it was difficult in that legislature. It is true that Bildu was not yet there, but Aralar was there and Eusko Alkartasuna was there who also considered him opportune. And we, seeing no reason to rectify those positions, in the amendment we kept to what this Parliament agreed on a socialist proposal and which was unanimously ratified, with the advantage that we imposed that mandate on the government being in the government and then being in the opposition, being far from the attitude of the next government. And we thought it was a reasonable time. In any case, I would like to congratulate you on the agreement we have reached. It talks about two months from today to present the calendar, but in any case, the important thing – it seemed to us and it still seems to us – is to establish a justified planning in time, reasoned, with its explanatory memoirs, that gives the affected groups space to make their claims, and that it also allows the groups to make their own planning of parliamentary activity. And the important thing, we believe, was to channel the agreements so that they can be brought forward, which is what we are going to commit ourselves to, I hope also with you. We are now defending the same thing that we were defending in the last parliamentary term and that we recovered in the previous one: the virtue of presenting a legislative timetable. Because we believe that it sets out the intentions of a government, which indicates its will to legislate, in what areas, at what pace, and what accompanies the task of parliamentary groups, which is very good for them to plan their activity. We see it as a flexible and collaborative tool between the Executive and the Legislature, and, of course, especially as an evaluable instrument under the control of this Parliament. The socialists recovered that habit that had been lost in the decades of nationalist coalition governments, which did not have the support of an absolute majority of the House, and what is also proposed is not to delay the times. We proposed a flexible calendar, adapted to the circumstances. I welcome the compromise amendment that we have reached with you, which is about two months, because we did not want, in any case, that by not imposing any timetable it would not give rise to non-compliance, but we were left without an instrument. And we understand that it gains in transparency, because it makes it possible to convey the real intentions of the Government beyond the generic enunciation of a catalogue of good intentions. And it is a sign of a will to engage unequivocally with Parliament, to be accountable and to set priorities. If others want to bring another debate here, I think they will be wrong. In this case, as in almost all of us, we prefer to opt for coherence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u75	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u76	Good morning, everyone. About the law offered by Popptic parties, I think there have been many things said so little in so short a time, but at least, in respect of the past, our team and our current government, it is time to say, but within the whole legislation, the whole business was introduced by the mad-dicks in this parliament. Of these, it is true, those sent by the Government were admitted 17, but the other 17 were also accepted by the legislature, and in these our parliamentary party participated in the 5th. But it is quite true that from this plan they arrived at at at at least 27 of the legislature. And I am not going to speak at the time of philibusterism, because something similar happened for a long time, I think, asking for endless and endless occurrences, or, in other words, lengthening and prolonging the time-terms for correction. But in any case the past is past, and we must learn from it. And what I've seen is in this other proposition, as the Poppse Party has introduced it, it's true that Christmas night was the end of the time for Christmas to present its legislative calendar, it says, in words, a month from the moment of inquest. It was a session on November 23, the 24th, the President of the House of Urkullu. So, just a month, not tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the deadline ended for Christmas. And it is true also that the President is very near, that is why he calls me an atheist, since he has not observed in it that the President himself had told them in the attempt of indulgence, and that he had made some commitments. And he mentioned that the budget for 2017s would be a priority issue, the second government program, the development of the legislative calendar, and the new 2020 World to promote economics. But he mentions them, as he read or explained in his attempt, and he enumerates at least some plans of law, or at least some laws which he intended to place in that law-house. Indeed, 14+5, but I'm not going to repeat it. But this is in his commitments. If that were not a small one, I think there is another instrument in opposition groups, or at least they have every chance of getting it. And on November 21 is the Eubertarians and Social Party team signed a contract, which was November 21. And there are, among other things, principles and commitments on one side of the section by 76 pages. Clero, at the same time, explains the plans of the laws as well as the areas. If anyone who has wanted to look at it has a grip, in case the main goal is to control the government, to ask questions, interferences, and all the rest, why there is a deal written. That's probably the program that's going to get you to the next day because we have a deal. In fact, I've checked out the basics and commitments and the program frame, the conversations, it's the same business, the things for the integration... There's a lot of commitments in that program. So if the opposition wants to do a job of control, it has it. Yet we say, "We need a calendar for the whole legislation, legislation calendar." I think, too, that's what I think it's all about, just like it's logical. It's been six months, or it's just a few? Well, it's been almost a month since this inquest session, not just for you, even for the government. The government completed on November 27th, almost a month ago. The six months we called it. We have already promised to present it in two months' time. I think the government will have to try it, even though it has some priority, some people and others, it's not the same whether the priority of the budget or the program is doing that frame. Anyway, as we've come to an agreement, I don't want to get involved, so why else we'll have it. But a calendar would be like fun, including the program and its plans, to get to this congress before February was over, or two months later, February 22, that would be our commitment as a team. And we're going to try to make this fun of her to keep her word, or in this case to obey the order of this congressman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u77	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. We're going round the teams that don't run, together, Podemos. Martínez, Lander, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u78	The lawmaster, the guests, the members of the legislature. I won't be long, because in fact, the proposition is very clear and also the Jest Party and the popular Party's agreement. As you know, we recently asked our fellow members to be activity in the Parliament in the Second 15th of January. In the explanation of this demand, it was required that oppositions should be enabled to control the government by means of the means of control, which is at last one of the most important tasks of opposition to take this control. This proposition, which we have here today, first requires that there should be a legislative plan, and it is also for us to penetrate into the instruments of control. We wanted to vote for the original proposal, the original proposition, but now that the agreement has been made, we can't do that. It was what we wanted at Olyro in our house, to leave this administration of legislation in our house, but we knew this was impossible. It's okay. We wanted to say yes to this proposal, because at last we don't trust this government for the moment because we can't have any control tools for this, and because we'd rather have government for a short time to run this calendar and treat it with flexibility in two months or six months. That's why we wanted to say yes to our initial proposal. In the end, it is essential for us to have a job of control, and it is indispensable to have good tools for this. Finally, we saw that in the election campaign we found two continentals and both of them had a lot of contact with what we're talking about today. First, that in this next law, the popular traditions, and the laws of great importance, were to be carried on, and I think we all agree. But on the other hand, and here, of course, some will not agree, many of us heard that the previous proceedings had been slow and unsubstantial in the campaign. That's all we have to agree with. The Jeltarian Party slowed down the rhythm of the euscal policy, slowing down the legislative rhythm of this Chamber, and then hurrying out several laws in the last year. But, as I have said before, this law may take a good course if it be carried forward by so many laws, and finally the Educational Law, the Revolution of the Law of Money, the University Law, the Confederation of the Civil State of the Basque People, the Turism Law, most of them have been removed from your projects. And seeing that such important projects must be brought to the legislature, we wanted to have a law-martial here as soon as possible. One thing really makes us happy today. We've seen that the Jelt Party of the Eural Party has been very deeply involved, and has been up to the last minute, so that the opposition will enable them to anticipate anything between them. You wanted six months' term due on the table, and two months' due, only for one thing: not to see how we three sides stand in opposition to a proposition which we consented to. We hope, however, that the agreement which we have made will pass, at least to bring you the agreement, and to have, as you have said, such a calendar in the middle of February. We were ready to be supple by introducing the first proposal. But seeing that you are now taking two months from now on, we shall be very strict in this, and in the first round of the month of February we shall ask where this calendar is, and what plan we have now, to place the laws I have said before us, and the laws which you desire, to know when they will come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u79	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. From EH Collect, Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u80	Good noon, everyone. Who was it, Mr. Semper, who called you? Soraya, Montoro...? What do we have, the legislative calendar of the Gasteiz Parliament at the negotiating table between the Basque Nationalist Party and the central government? Anyway, we're happy. As Lander said, we've been able to reduce opposition from six months to two months. And we want to say something. It is possible that at first the law which has been produced by the Populous Party may seem excessive in that sense. And we just wanted to get something out of it, and it's just that what happened in the previous law wasn't going to happen. If we had any certainty in six months that this government would bring its legislative calendar, we should not hesitate to vote for it. But we thought, as in the previous law, that this time we would go and repeat the same scheme. What happened four years ago? Twenty12, September, elections. In March 2013, Laura Minkara demands the occurrence of the following Urcullu to explain the legislative calendar. This means that almost September to March, for six months, there was no such thing as a legislative calendar. In May 2013, the legislative calendar is brought to this Chamber by October 2013. I mean, September 2012, October 2013, wasted more than a year. And we say it in vain, not only because nothing had been done in the year, but also because, in the next three years, the legislative activity had been consistent. Here are some figures fired, Mr. Sémper has dropped some, Mr. Egibar has thrown others. Neither of us, I don't know who will have to adapt their files to, but whatever it is, it's a very modest legislative activity. And I repeat, it is possible that PP should seem excessive. But I'll repeat, we believe that the man who Planed by the Jelt Party of Euk, too, had a trap for him. He planned six months, six months of July, no activity in July, so we'd find him again in October with a legislative calendar. And we thought that it couldn't be repeated at all, it's time to take advantage of it. "Time passes, and the time that passes does not recover, especially when no decisions are made, from the leadership of an institution, which must be made." Joseba Egibar's words addressed Patxi López when he was lehendakari, while accusing him of having a government without a government program. Let us hope that now the Basque Nationalist Party has not registered the Basque Socialist Party as a partner of government so that we continue to have a government without a government program. The legislative calendar ought, in our opinion, to be brought to us at once. "Government action materializes in legislative capacity," it came to say ten months ago, when we were already doing some sort of evaluation-evaluation of the legislative capacity of the previous executive, whose capacity was questioned, to understand this House, not even reaching an approved minimum. In addition, capacity is not measured only in the time when a list of different laws is presented. The legislative calendar must be, as Mr. Pastor has said, a flexible means for us also executive and legislative, which ought to be common to the House of Parliament, where the laws which this legislative calendar ought to receive, are the objects which it ought to receive. And from that point on, it is expressed in some way in order to obtain complicity, relations, and agreements from the government. The laws which are to be developed in a legal institution show, in our opinion, what is most clearly the design of a government in the country, what importance it gives to it, what it is not, and what, in the end, is the standard of nations. Hence, the Basque People look at the law with two characteristics: on the one hand strictness, and on the other an engagement. Sharpness and commitment to yourself and government as well. We will stretch out our hand to bring out the laws which seem to us to be advanced, and declare our integrity. In the laws which seem to us to be of progress, the Basque People will, as in the precedent law, act. We shall also show the legislative body, but we shall also follow the government with strict continuity with regard to the legislative. After all, as I said, we showed our attitude in the previous law. We advanced our own laws, such as the Act of Death. We helped to get the laws brought by the local groups, such as the Housing Act. The law which we had received from the government helped us get out of it, such as the municipal law. We even helped to get out of the popular community laws which had been introduced by the legislator of the people, in the cause of the law against Fracting. The presence of the Basque People in the most important laws that had been approved was indispensable. And again I repeat, with this will, we proceed to this new law. To present the legislative calendar, to begin the treatment of the laws, to accept the laws, and to execute the laws. But unfortunately, in this country, this is not the end of the course. Defend what this parliament has agreed to, in the presence of Madrid and the Constitutional Court, in order to defend what this Parliament has agreed to do, and place what has been agreed on here above the Constitutional Court. And in this sense, we must say that we have received the announcement of government with great concern, in which the negotiation of the four laws by Madrid has been referred to. None of these four are the Housing Law or the Facking Act. We seem to neglect the laws which we do not like ideologically, and in that sense Madrid sometimes seems to do us a great deal of good. We'll ask the government for one thing: respect and respect for what this Chamber agreed. The word and decision of this chamber ought to be superior to anything else, although they are remote from their political ideari. If EAJ's ideological positions are defending EAJ. The government is owed to this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u81	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. On the answer shift, Mr. Sémper, we'll start with you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u82	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Very briefly. Mr. Pastor, to say that our will was to bring about the defeat of the government could be as unfair as to say that you have rectified so as not to lose. What is true, and I say it with all transparency, is that I do not know if you will rectify in the future; what I do assure you is that some vote will lose in the future. But that is parliamentary logic, and that is something that must be accepted and understood by the groups that support the Government. It is something that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have to understand. And they are going to lose votes in this House, because the role of the opposition is to control the government, and, even if they do not believe it, they are not going to do everything right. Even if it's hard for them to understand, they're going to have opposition. And, of course, the will of the People's Party is to exercise – we have said it on numerous occasions and I will take the opportunity to repeat it –..., we will exercise a strong and firm opposition. With his hand outstretched, but a demanding opposition. And I am now announcing this to the councillors, whom we respect very much, but whom we are also going to monitor very much, because I think it is for what the citizens have chosen us for. And politics exercised with seriousness, serenity and humility is the one that will make us right. Humility from the opposition, but humility also from the Government. That is why the corrections are good so as not to lose, and it is also not wrong for the opposition to seek on certain occasions to give a touch of humility to the Government. But I can assure you that on this occasion, at least as far as we are concerned, it was not our will that the Government should be defeated, that the groups supporting the Government should be defeated, because it is apparent that we have signed a compromise amendment, which we could, as you know, not have signed. Therefore, I beg you and encourage you to take note of the two things I have just said to you. And the deadlines, Mr Pastor, and it is true that in the past both we have defended different deadlines (six months, two, one hundred days, which is what the People's Party was defending), had their reason for being when there are governments of a given configuration. What happens is that this government is not new, it's a re-edited government. Reissued not in the composition of the Government, to which you have joined; but reissued in the parliamentary support that the Government had. Because you in the last legislature since the opposition already supported the government, so this government is not a bison government, it is not a new government. New advisors have been incorporated, it is true, but it is a government that announces that half of what it announced to us in the last legislature is what it is going to do now. With this two months seems a more than reasonable time for the government, in addition to the important political situation that we are going through, economic and social, and the need for urgent legislative and executive action, to come with the piles put on – let me say it – with the declared will of government action, and say, "Hey, in two months a legislative calendar, and if it can be a month and a half too, because we are at the top of government action." We had to force him. We've had to force it, and you have to rectify it. Welcome. And not always rectifying is a problem, although sometimes it is hard for them to understand it. And, finally, I believe that this Parliament is going to have a lot of activity in this legislature. Really, I'm fully convinced. And I've seen it these days, what do you want me to tell you! I think there are some things that are moving, and that's good. This government has to have action, Parliament has to control that action. This Parliament must be a focus of ideological debate, of ideological confrontation; yes, but also of democratic confrontation, that is healthy. Sometimes some will win, others will lose (they will start to lose, Mr.Egibar), and these are things that happen in life. Sometimes, those who don't agree on important or less important things, will agree... Look, we're going to give this Parliament a little bit of bizigarri! We will also allow different things to happen that benefit citizens! I believe that in this we could have all signed a compromise amendment, and that's all right! And, Mr. Urruzuno, to conclude, I am not going to feed the legend, but believe me, you have not called us Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. Mr. Egibar has called us, who, well, who have some difference, right?, between Mrs. Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría and Mr. Egibar. I have only spoken this morning with Mr Egibar, as always in a good tone, as always in a good disposition (this time you have been in a better disposition than I), and we have agreed something that seems reasonable, and that is that the objective of the People's Party has been fulfilled, and that is that instead of six months we have a legislative calendar in two. And on February 22, Mr. Egibar (which you have announced the date, because you have made the accounts of two months)..., we will be very expectant, on February 22. And on 22 February we will be waiting with great enthusiasm – and I am completely serious – with great interest for the legislative timetable that this government sends to the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u83	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists, Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u84	Well, Mr Semper, we are not concerned that the government may lose votes (it is logical and reasonable) on more than one occasion. It won't be the target! We presented a very coherent thing with which we had defended the last and previous legislatures. With you, by the way, with you. Six months, which seems like a reasonable time. Something else is usually extended by the Government of Spain, and some autonomous community, isn't it? (also from Podemos), in presenting these kinds of actions, but, in any case, it seems reasonable. Man, what didn't seem very logical, which is what I was missing, is that it's on the deadline the day after tomorrow. Because that was the deadline, the day of the Olentzero, when not even the counselors have attended. When this government is true that it is re-edited... Man, you'll recognize that there are three new counselors who will have to put on the batteries, that some are now picking up the phone and the computer, right?, and that needs some time. Well, I don't think it's bad about the two months; man, I thought it was a little shaky and delusional about the day before tomorrow. And then, look, this has served to undress some strategies. Look, Mr Martínez has confessed here in the rostrum: what he was worried about was giving the government a defeat. Clearly, he couldn't say. Clearly he couldn't say! That was his target. Because, even recognizing that the deadline was unfulfilled, he preferred to support that, knowing that it could not be fulfilled – that is called postureo, Mr Martínez – to support a perfectly reasonable proposal that spoke of two months. That's doing what I want without doing anything. That's what the buhoneros did when they went through the villages: they sold magic potions that didn't explain the formula, that didn't solve any problems and nobody knew what they consisted of. That is what you intend to do with your political action, somewhat like what Mr Urruzuno says. A little like what Mr. Urruzuno says. It is not true that we left in June, Mr Urruzuno. With our proposal we were going to the month of May. Adjust the numbers, from what comes out. Since the investiture, six months later, we leave in May. It was in October the investiture. (Berbotsa) Yes, yes, of the constitution of the government. I don't care! Count it: December, January, February, March, April and May. Six months, May. Therefore, there was no hidden intention. It was exactly the same approach, with absolute consistency, that we maintained in the past and the previous legislature, in which case, by the way, some of your partners, who are sitting with you on the bench today, also signed that proposal, six months, which seems reasonable. I would like many of the other institutions to be at least so diligent! Because the important thing is not only the deadline, but also, but also the political readiness to fulfil it, to carry it out and to give the appropriate explanations, which is what a legislative timetable is for. Not by setting a date, but by bringing it to term and compliance. And that is obviously the work of you, of the opposition. Anyway, I don't want to get any longer, because we're on the dates we're on. I take the opportunity to wish all of you happy holidays, and I will finish soon and so make it easy for Mr Alonso and Mr Andueza to go and see their children, who have a Christmas performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u85	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u86	In this life, politics, of course, may be lost and won. We must try not to make a fool of ourselves, why is it the last? And when I saw this proposal, I couldn't make any sense. The popular party said what had been introduced to him from day to month. And you say: "Hey, this is Christmas Eve. The departments still have their shows. In January, they'll be doing it in the second fortnight, then, is there anything else here? Or what is true sense? "I don't know. That was my question. And it's true, even though it's been there for many years, there's always a point for surprise. And it is true, as Pastor has said, that Podemos and EH Collect have very plainly revealed his position, why it is true that we have a full repentance, and you do not present it. And I thought, "Bueno, they'll be like hunters to see what's going on." But there was no logic in the initial proposition. We didn't have any right to correct you, we didn't have a chance of interacting with you or of making a means. Then we see what are true intentions. Why, this is the agreement which PNV and PSOE have made. Did you really read it? I guess so. Here are the commitments, the foundations, the laws are listed. Then what's going to be in the calendar the first six months or the next is so important that you can work oppositions? Lehendakariak bereak diskurtsoan zerrendatu zituen, besteak beste, esaten zuen "among others", 14 law: energy sustainability, environment, climate change, sustainable mobility, amendment of the Transport Authority Act, public employment, organisation and functioning of the Basque public sector, transparency and citizen participation, Basque law on education and vocational training, cultural heritage, updating of the Sports Act... Hemen zerrenda osoa hemen dago. Osoa ez, beasts law batzuk was selfish to saylako. Hau jakitea inportantea da noski, dudarik gabe, bathe hemen dago dena idatzita. Niretzat gobernu-programren euskarririk nagusiena hau izango da. Ez da bakarra izango, bainsa euskarririk nagusiena hau da. And every parliamentary has the document here, to ask the chief physician, of course, if he chooses to, but also the written questions to answer, so that they may have commitments. For my part, it's very important during the second fortnight of January, because that's why there's a photograph of directors, a department storekeeper, a department storekeeper, a funk, what's going to happen in that field, what's the main thing he's going to do, what he's going to do, what he's gonna do, what he's gonna do, what he's gonna do, what he's gonna do. That's the most important thing that opposition has to do for me. At least that's how we practice when we were opposition. And the project, the program, the whole legislative calendar, is possible within two months from today? I talked to you and he said, "Ladies and gentlemen, we have to press the machines, and if the lawyer wants this, we must give it to him." They wanted more time because they wanted to make things right. But we have promised to be here by the end of February. We'll try, we'll try, Erkorek, president, and all the department leaders. "Hey, do we have homework? "I don't know. Why these domestic jobs, including the government program, we have to explain projects and commitments to the legislature. But what Poptular Party brought up was something else. You won't tell me that it's serious, Mr. Borja Sémper, in the month's due, not tomorrow, but tomorrow, when the day after tomorrow, the whole plan, the programmes, and the rest, can be introduced, as well as that, we haven't realized that we haven't made the appearance of the departments yet. And then I stop with one last message: that we shall be accompanied by plans of severity and commitment, and of progress. Well, at least I, as far as our team is concerned, and this message is directed to all the parliamentary groups, which we'd like to make with all of them. And as far as we can, it is clear to us that if there are progresses and laws chosen and accepted for the good of this people, we shall always be there, as we have always been.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u87	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Together the representative of Podemus, Mr Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u88	Very short. Mr. Egibar, you've made a pact with the Socialist Party twice. So I'll repeat what I said here a month ago. This language was very poor, it contained but little substance, and that's why we're here asking for more information. And today we're asking for a legislation farm in a period of time. Why? Because that's not all we wanted, and even though we asked questions, we wanted to be the answer because we didn't. Nevertheless, we have seen that you made a pact today, and on the 22nd of February we will ask again what happens in that calendar. We hope you're here, sin más. There's not much complication. Pastor, I do not posture: demand and a confidence still to be built. The first contact we have had with the Government at the moment has been the bill that has been presented to us today. We have had no opportunity to build even more confidence with this Government. And until that trust is built and until we have the tools to control and to exercise the work that belongs to us as opposition, we will demand and ask what we believe is necessary. And right now, what we think is necessary is to know what this legislature is going to happen. Because, as I told Mr Egibar, the agreement that was presented to us here was absolutely insufficient in terms of content and a road map on what was going to happen in this legislature, and we have to be asking again and again what is going to happen. And today we are calling for a legislative timetable to know what laws are going to be passed and what deadlines they are going to be adopted, and also to check that that is what is going to happen. Because if, after all, we all have a consensus and we all have an agreement in which this is a legislature in which great country agreements are going to be drawn, in which we are going to go hand in hand many of us to draw many laws that are necessary for this country and for the citizens, then, of course, we have to put the piles on. And we've got to get our batteries on from now on. Does that mean it has to be on the calendar by the day after tomorrow? No, no, But it has to be as soon as possible. And as soon as possible it is what this proposal proposed, after all. Well, if it's gonna last two months, then on February 22nd, we'll be there. But, of course, let us not be mistaken: whoever has acted all day today in an insistent, insistent, insistent, indeed, not to lose a vote, because it scares him to lose a vote and show what is already evident, that the government does not have a majority, it is you. But it's all right! That's all right! Everyone knows that the Government has thirty-seven seats and that it does not have thirty-eight seats, and that there will be many times when those thirty-eight seats, even if it seems difficult, will agree. Then they'll agree! And today there was a possibility... well, that's it, there's another deal, and it's okay. Now, the important thing at the end is that we need to establish as soon as possible the control measures that this Parliament must have over the government, and we need to know as soon as possible what the government has for this country over the next four years. And then, when we know and see what kind of project and what sort of legislative calendar we shall have, we will begin to work and see what things can be made out of. But what do we want at last? We want to get to work as soon as possible. And the government has to put all the facilities to carry on this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u89	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. In conclusion, Mr. Uruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u90	Mr. Egibar, klaro, when it is often to stand around one thing, or to look round to see a thing, is not this or that thing annexed to it. It's done to compare and share it with other references. And we, I think I said, put that other reference to sharing on the previous law. We will not enter six months, two, four, or eight. We wanted to avoid the consequences of the previous law. And in that sense, we're happy, we've avoided it. We don't know if it's about Soray, whether it's for you or Podemos and EH Collectors. We think it was because of that. And in that sense, we're happy. All right, if the government does its word, or whatever this parliament requires, we'll have a law-maker next semester. That's just progress. And we went to it and that's what we were trying to accomplish. I told you, elections in October 2012 the previous law. Mr. Urkullu brought the legislative calendar in October 2013. A year. Mr. Urkullu came here in October with the legislative calendar. A year. Nothing inside a year. And then for the next three years, well, each of us will appreciate the extent of the activity or the function which was the legislative, according to its size and interest. But that was the last balance. The thirty pick laws were introduced and not even half of them came out. And at the last moment, hurrying, July, please. And we just wanted to avoid it. And we think that's what we're doing. So we're happy. So, to finish up, Merry Christmas to everyone. And if it's possible, then give me advice. Let's all take a look up here in a new year to look north of us. They're involved in the North. Let's get involved. We want them home. Let's hope we can make it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u91	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the half-correction signed by Euskal Socialists and Euzian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-22.u92	So the midway corrections are accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. Happy Christmas and good new year to you all. The meeting ended at two and nineteen in the afternoon.
