ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Please sit down on your seats. First, I must say, the fifth point is left for another. Preceding theme: "The other proposition as a team of the Misto-UPyD legislatures, to prevent the loss of nutritious food from making a law of eucalyplication. As for the other legal proposal, to decide once and for all the drawings of the conference of the whole of May 5, according to the 92.1 article of the Rule." It was a draw in the second paragraph of the middle correction introduced by the Basque Socialists and Mistua-UPyD teams. Following the 92.1 article of the ruler, we'll make that correction again, the vote of that part. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u1	Since it's a draw, the second point is cancelled. First point in theme list: "Excellent of the Society, Society, and Housing Committee on the bill of law on the third American social sector. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Toñak, the representative of fun, has the word. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. In front of this Chamber, I stand as the head physician of the Imperial and Police Society, to present to you the project of the law of the third American Social Sector. On September 17th of the year, I even presented myself before the Commission of Parliament, Social Policia and Housing, in order to inform them of the work which our department had done in the development of this law, and of the content of the law. As I explained then, the third social sector...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u3	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u4	...the introduction of the law is supposed to follow what Juan Aburto has promised in the parliament. Mr. Aburto, who was the chief physician of my predecessor, gave his word, and this engagement was reflected in the text confirmed by the Council of Government on the 3rd of February 2015. I must say that since the first draft of the text we have worked together with the third social sector itself. For us it was essential to reach consensus with its representatives at the Civil Dialogue Bureau from the outset and throughout the process. The roads to the passage of a bill, as we all know, are long and sometimes difficult, as happened with this case until it was passed by the Governing Council. Let me save you the process, from which you have completed information in the file. It is also important to mean that, later, the work carried out by the members of the paper has enriched the text, which is now even more worked out and resolves issues that had not been sufficiently addressed in the first draft. With its approval, I have no doubt that Euskadi will have won in society's participation in the programming, implementation and evaluation of social policies. What is the pretence of this law? The Government intends to make explicit recognition of the third sector in Euskadi through it, collecting a wide range of normative provisions that are in the same direction. The aim is to narrow this sector as precisely as possible. It is no longer worth defining the third sector solely because of its lack of profit; there must be other circumstances and other indicators to identify it. And finally, the third social sector must be unravelled from other face-to-face areas of the third sector, such as cultural, sporting and other areas. In the drafting of the law, emphasis has been placed on this: in defining the third social sector, correctly narrowing its areas of action, marking as precisely as possible the limits of its interaction with the Administration and with the public responsibility services. This law therefore aims to regulate the third social sector, to establish clearly who belongs to it, the values on which it has to be supported, present it, and to establish in a norm its role in the design and implementation of social policies by the public administration. And, since they are considered an important value, also set out the strategies that the public administration must carry out to enhance its presence and its actions. This new law specifies the scope and limits of the third social sector in a significant way. It gives him political government, and he guarantees the union between public institutions and civil society, which is organized. In this sense, as the law predicts, after testing the text, there will be six months' time to complete the census of the organizations of the third sector and a year's promotion strategy. With this law we take an important step towards achieving the third social sector that Euskadi needs. A third sector that has to be diverse, that has to have the capacity to promote transformative alternatives in society, that has a broad social base, that maintains a strong link between the organizations and individuals that integrate them, that offers quality employment, that is sustainable and autonomous, strengthened and coherent, transparent and recognized, related and allied with other actors, that is internally linked, and that is also well articulated. The new rule will regulate not only the activities of organizations working exclusively in the field of social services, but also those that do so in other areas of social policy, such as employment, the income guarantee system, families, equality and also the social health area. The main aspects and measures covered by the draft law are, on the one hand, the normative definition of what we mean by the third social sector in the Basque Country, of the organizations that make up it and of its characteristics; social initiative organizations that carry out activities in the field of social intervention, which includes participation in the provision of public responsibility services, and what is understood as social services of general interest; and, on the other hand, the definition of the scope of social intervention, and, finally, the establishment of a census of organizations. In addition, the definition of principles, criteria and instruments for the cooperation and cooperation of the third social sector with the public sector and other actors. To this end, the definition of the principle of civil dialogue and the channelling of its exercise through the Euskadi Civil Dialogue Bureau, on the one hand, and the participation of the third sector in consultative bodies of the Basque public administrations and in the Economic and Social Council, on the other, are included. The definition of the area of cooperation and collaboration between the third sector and the public sector within the field of social intervention, which includes, on the one hand, the definition, in a broad and profound way, of the area of cooperation in relation to systems of public responsibility and also of the spaces of interaction between systems, including cooperation in the management of these systems and spaces in the provision, design, provision, evaluation and improvement of the public responsibility services linked to them, as well as in the function of reference and case coordination, always within the parameters defined for each of these aspects in the draft law and in the reference legislation of each system, in order to ensure public responsibility. Two, the definition of the requirements to consider an entity's activity to be unique. Three, the definition of the area of collaboration in the development of other activities of general interest other than the provision of public liability services. Four, the instruments envisaged for the development of such collaboration (cooperation and cooperation framework agreements and agreements, special arrangements for concertation, agreements, etc.), while providing that cooperation for the provision of public liability services with entities carrying out an activity of a unique nature may also be formalized through agreements, in accordance with the Social Services Act. The definition of the obligations of the organisations of the third social sector in Euskadi to cooperate and cooperate with the Basque public administrations. The promotion of the third social sector, including, first, the implementation of a strategy for the promotion of the third social sector in the Basque Country; secondly, the preparation of a report on measures to promote the third sector; thirdly, measures to support the development of infrastructure, the implementation of investments, the improvement of management and the promotion of the economic activity of the organisations; fourthly, the promotion of recognition of the third social sector in the Basque Country and its contribution, its structuring and collaboration between organisations and networks, including the dissemination of basic information on the third social sector in the Basque Country and its contribution, an annual communication campaign around a significant day, a periodic congress, etc. The development of collaboration between businesses and the third social sector in Basque, with the support of Basque public administrations, is also covered by the law. Finally, the creation of the Basque observatory in the third social sector. In the 26th of the month, Eplegu, Politics, and the Commission of the House of Housing, carefully approved the report of the project of this law, in order that the trial of the law may be voted at this meeting today. We want this trial and hope that the new legal text will status the third social sector. And without that third sector, our social services would not be the same. We believe that we are exposed to a good law, without doubt to an agreed law, which has also protection from the institutions and networks of the third sector. I am sure that you who are members of this Chamber will confirm it in this manner, because this law has improved fully in its power, among all of us. I'm done. I conclude my speech by expressing our gratitude to everyone for the work done and manifested; that, as a result of that work, we will have a law regulating this third Basque social sector, whose qualitative impact on the social field will be remarkable, much greater than the merely economic one, which is also important. We are faced with a decisive asset to shape a fairer, more cohesive and more supportive Basque society, which has great added value. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u5	Thank you, chief physician. Some member of the board... ? No? We're going to the team shift. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u6	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Lehendakari. On this issue, I believe that we must first say something that we can all share: the good work that has been done in the paper, which we think has improved the final text substantially thanks to the contributions of the different groups, through their amendments and through the discussions carried out, and also through the contributions in the form of amendments and the arguments put forward by the Union, Progress and Democracy. We therefore have a law, a legal text, improved in relation to what was presented to us by the Government. UPyD tabled on the initial text twenty-four partial amendments, of which fourteen were accepted or had sex with other groups, initially nine which we put to the vote at the time of the committee. Finally one was withdrawn, with which eight would remain alive, which we maintain. We have maintained the amendments for this final debate, some of them by simply formal criteria, and others, such as 117, in which we propose the deletion of Article 2.3, by radical differences with the approach initially taken, as we continue to consider that the definition of third-sector organisations cannot be or would be a kind of collapsing point for all pre-existing organisations. It is true that many of these organizations may be doing excellent work and that they should be taken into account, but we were presenting and proposing an amendment which included a transitional provision giving these organizations the opportunity to restructure to meet the requirements that, in our view, should be necessary in order to be part of the third social sector in Euskadi. In our view, these organisations listed in Article 2.3 should be redefined and adapted to the system, so that all third sector organisations can operate under the same conditions and meet all the requirements. In any event, we believe that this subparagraph has been improved by narrowing down the time when the organizations included in paragraph 2.3.a) may be included as part of the third sector, and in the case of subparagraph (b) it has also been improved by trying to strengthen its non-profit-making nature. Another of the amendments which we consider to reflect another of our most comprehensive approaches is Amendment 118 to Article 3(a), which sought to strengthen the nature of volunteerism and eliminate those types of organizations that still exist, let us say, for the sole purpose, with the sole objective of maintaining their workers, disconnecting themselves from their true social ends. In this amendment we call for at least 50% of the people working for the organisation to be volunteers. We also have other amendments with less weight but which we have finally decided to retain, such as Amendment No 119, to Article 3.c). The aim was to strengthen the existence of legal personality on the basis of national legislation. We also maintain Amendment 126 to Article 10.1(c) and Amendment No 129, with which we propose the deletion of Article 13. We believe that the figure of the case coordinator is already contained in Law 12/2008 of 5 December on Social Services, and therefore it seemed to us and it seems unnecessary to us that it should again be included in this Law. With Amendment 128, to Article 12.2, we aim to ensure that the participation of Basque public administrations is better articulated. With Amendment 135 to Article 20.1, we wanted to change "may" to "should". This amendment, which was intended to oblige public administrations, was finally included in the final text. It has also happened in a very similar way in article 21. With this, at last, we are satisfied with this change introduced. But with this amendment we also wanted to eliminate the preferential treatment of banks and bank foundations, which was not finally reflected in the final report. Finally, Amendment 137, which contains an additional third provision, makes this amendment very easy to understand. This raises a one-year deadline for the Government to establish the third sector strategy in the Basque Country. This is what is finally reflected in the law: that the government has a year to present this strategy. And to us a year seems an excess. One year from the adoption of the law to present a strategy, it seems to us that it is too long, and what we propose with our amendment is that it will be six months as long as the Government has time to develop that third sector strategy. I think it's something quite reasonable and understandable. We think very much, a year, and we therefore propose that this time limit be reduced to six months. In any case, as I said at the outset, we believe that the final, although better, result is good and has been the result of dialogue between all the political parties, between all the groups in the House, and therefore we are quite satisfied with the final result, so we will finally vote in favour of this law. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u8	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. We are in the final process of a bill that we have worked on, I understand how to do it. That is to say, on 17 September we started with the appearances; we moved on to the procedure of amendments, with some extension necessary for the work of the parliamentary groups; to the work of the paper, with five or six meetings, with calm, with debate, with analysis; to the previous procedure of the committee, and to this plenary. And that in a law that was not a contentious law, with the agreement of the sector, with a recent similar debate also in General Courts, and with an even more proactive attitude of opposition groups. This is for you to see how you can pass bills that have been introduced in two weeks or those that come with more discrepancy, with more political burden, with more legal complexity. And this reflection is for your ladies and gentlemen to see the picture that is coming in these two months, in haste, hasty agreements and, worst of all, the possible lack of quality of the laws. On this point, the purpose of this draft law is to regulate the entities of the third social sector, social action, to strengthen their capacity as interlocutors before the administration of the Basque Autonomous Community with regard to social public policies, and to define the measures to encourage the development and benefit of the public authorities. That is to say, entities, organizations, initiatives, and their corresponding associations, networks, foundations, private federations, arising from the citizens' social initiative, solidarity, under different modalities, and responding to criteria of solidarity and social participation, for the purposes of general interest and absence of profit, which promote the recognition of civil rights, as well as the economic, social or cultural rights of persons and groups who suffer from conditions of vulnerability or who are at risk of social exclusion. A law, of course, requested by this sector, and which has also been regulated in different political institutions. Our amendments were 50. They were trying not to change the substance of the law, but to make the law simpler and somewhat less brazen, less repetitive than it is. Our amendments have sought to improve understanding of this law. It is clear that, more for a matter of form than of substance, we wanted and have done that work, carried out that work, also in view of the recent law of the Congress of Deputies, on the third sector of social action, also a law very well received by the sector. Fifteen amendments have been accepted in the procedure, which have been part of the compromise... We have also withdrawn more than ten amendments throughout this process, in the light of the agreements, the debates in the paper or the amendments of other parliamentary groups. I mean, we basically have a lot of amendments, but, I say again, they are part of the form, they are part of what we understood to be making a law, because, a little simpler, a little less repetitive, ultra-definitive... But in any case, I think the bottom is what counts and that's where we agree. It seems that in general terms, moreover, the organizations of the third social sector agree with the work done, and we understand that all that is that important issue, which is to fatten the relationship between civil society, that private initiative, that citizen initiative, with that complex, sometimes hard, gear of the Administration, is good. And more in matters that have essentially to do with social policies, social assistance, social intervention, provision of social services, as is the object of this public-private relationship that is to be enshrined in this law. We are also talking about a relationship that has that social character, basic, but also based on solidarity and the protection of services, I say again, fundamentally social, although the reading and regulation of the law not only the social or services or the provision of social services falls within the scope of the activity to be carried out by those organizations that are called by this law. In other words, a law that has to be connected with other regulations of ours (well, there are also important regulations, such as that of social services), and also with the search for a provision of services that has some characteristics: that it has guarantees, but that it has the characteristics of quality. That is, that this third sector and those organizations, those entities, those private initiatives or those federations, networks or associations, must also be controlled, and that is why the law seeks the guarantee, seeks its obligations, seeks the rights of those organizations, and, in this regard, I believe it sets out a number of important issues in determining that the participation of third sector organizations and entities is of quality and is guaranteed. And also starting from the basis that we have entities, initiatives of third social sector that are truly strengthened over time, with activity... They are a strong third social sector, a very well prepared third social sector, and a modern third social sector, in relation to the needs we all see for that, that public responsibility, which is now taking on private initiative. In other words, there is a phase of the law that is also important in understanding, which is summed up in two words, which is cooperation and collaboration, cooperation and collaboration in social intervention. We understand that this is the key issue. It is a question not of imposition, not of obligation; it is a question primarily of cooperation and collaboration, of acting in management policies, of acting in matters of the provision of social services or other services, in systems of public responsibility. In other words, healthy public-private cooperation and collaboration. There is always a fear, sometimes, of public-private collaboration in matters of public provision, but this we understand is a healthy public-private cooperation and collaboration, and also perfectly aimed at important social purposes, which is the fundamental thing. And it is an example, and that is what we will always defend from my group, a public-private partnership in matters essential to this society. That is within our ideal, and, of course, we understand that in this law it is reflected. And what is also important, in conclusion, is the measures to encourage the entities of the third social sector. Because you can regulate these entities, but you have to think about how to encourage their activity, how to give them a channel of action, facilitate their work. And we understand that, in the same way as in the law recently adopted in the Congress of Deputies, of the third sector of social action, to the so-called promotion here is dedicated a chapter, chapter IV, the so-called chapter of promotion of the third social sector, with a chapter of our own, where we understand that there are important measures that can also be used by associations and entities of the third social sector, but that they will also facilitate to the Administration the realization of their public policies regarding services proper to this law and the concerts that will arise from this law. That is to say, I believe that an equally important step is being taken in defining the promotion of associations and entities in the third social sector. That is to say, in conclusion, that, except for consistency with one of the amendments maintained, in which we will abstain in one of the articles of the law, which we understood better defined by our amendments – but I say again that we do not go into substance –, of course we will vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists represent the group, Lady Sarasa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u10	Egun on, lehendakari, counselor. Today we are talking about the third sector, and for the Basque Socialist Group in principle the important thing is to give value to its work. I have worked in the third sector, I mean, and I never thought I would come to this Parliament (by the way, I see people who have worked with me)... I never thought I would come to this Parliament to be the spokesman for such an important law for the third social sector. That is why I want to start by saying that the third social sector is a fundamental asset in order to move forward in a society like ours, which must be more just, more solidarity, more cohesive, participatory and democratic. At any juncture, but especially in which we are living these last few years. There is a significant increase in the rate of poverty and social inequality. It is true that we are better than other autonomous communities, but we are worse than other regions at European level. Therefore, we must all continue to work hand in hand and move towards that goal. I have to say in Euskadi that there are more than three thousand organisations which constitute the third sector. They usually come together in federations, because that's what they most produce, they come together in federations (which, although you come from different territories, you join in a federation with a common goal), and also in networks, and they are dedicated to promoting solidarity, social participation, inclusion and social cohesion. Many paid hires (about 35,000 are said to be pending), as well as some 150,000 volunteers working for groups in various fields. And this aspect must be highlighted, because the work of the third sector is also reversed in society, and involves economic savings in many areas of life. Also, for example, in health care, because working with people with dependency, with disabilities, is very important for them to have a normalized life and not have to enter another network, for example, health care. And I understand that this has to be valued, and the government has to know that it is, and I know that they do. The Basque Socialists express our appreciation for the work done by all these organizations and their members, and we understand that this bill means a lot to all of them, because it establishes a legal framework that regulates their activity, consolidates instruments of dialogue and collaboration with the Basque public sector, and provides for participation in that Basque Civil Dialogue Bureau with the Government, and in the Economic and Social Council. The preliminary draft of the law of the third social sector came to this Parliament in February 2015. In the Committee on Employment and Social Policy, Mr Toña appeared; representatives of Sareen Sarea-Red from the third sector of Euskadi, and of the Civil Dialogue Bureau; representatives of Elkartea, the coordinator of persons with organic physical disabilities in the Basque Country; also Fernando Fantova; representatives of the LAB trade union and the Gipuzcoana Foreign Ministry, some of whom are present today in this Parliament. I want to thank you for your work, your contributions, and I also want to thank you for all the contributions that have been coming to us through email. As a result of all this work, the Basque Socialists have recorded thirty-five amendments, of which seventeen have been incorporated as such, twelve have been fucked, and we have withdrawn six to accommodate the amendments of other groups. There has been no reserved socialist amendment, because virtually all of them have been incorporated into the law. As a general point, our amendments have been aimed at incorporating terms and aspects that the preliminary draft did not envisage, clarifying and providing better wording. In the explanatory statement we have incorporated very important terms that define the third sector, such as the fact that, in addition to networks, they are organizations; such as the fact that they are legal structures inscribed in the registers corresponding to their legal status, of voluntary, non-profit, private action, and, in addition to self-governed, self-managed. This is also very important. We have incorporated groups with which we worked but which were not named in the preliminary draft. In addition to older persons, women, persons with disabilities, people affected by a disease, immigrants and people in unemployment, we have wanted to incorporate into childhood, adolescence, youth, people who suffer or have suffered male-based violence – this has also been incorporated by another group – people with dependency, or people at risk of social exclusion. And, of course (also the law), all people in general. In addition to the term "conciliation", we have also added something that is very important and that we have to bargain and start putting everyone in our dialogue manual, which is co-responsibility, so important to achieve equality in Basque society. With reference to the article, and as a curious fact, I would like to point out that in the course of the presentation one of the articles that was most amended was number 6, which corresponds to the principles of action. Three amendments were adopted by the Basque People's Group, two by the EH Bildu Group and four by the Basque Socialists Group, and we were able to reach agreement between the three groups on a compromise text that we incorporated into the bill, but finally fell in the vote on the paper. And, well, in order not to deprive ourselves of this bill of principles, which is very important, the Basque Socialists have, with a particular vote, rescued the text of the article in the paper of the paper, and we have done so for consistency, hoping to regain the consensus reached in the paper. I therefore appeal to the responsibility of the parliamentary groups to recover the principles in the terms we agreed in the course of this presentation, where we wanted to eliminate from that article lucrative companies, because it makes no sense to include them in a law that is of the third sector. These principles speak of social participation, these principles speak of solidarity and justice, these principles speak of public responsibility and co-responsibility in social inclusion, they speak of civil dialogue and participatory democracy, they speak of cooperation between the public sector and the social initiative, and they speak of the transversality of actions aimed at social inclusion. That's what article 6 is all about. That is why I understand that the groups here today will make it possible for them to reintegrate into this bill that we are debating today. In Article 17, concerning the strategy for the promotion of the third social sector in Euskadi, the Socialists have also made our contributions. It is true that it recognizes the collaboration of the Basque Government with the networks of the third sector, but we have also added to the organizations in general, because there are organizations that are not currently integrated into those networks, and they have to have the possibility of having a connection with the Government itself. And that a strategy for the promotion of the third social sector should be developed through the Basque Civil Dialogue Bureau. And the Socialist Group has also said that this strategy will include actions that will drive each of the parties and collaborative actions, as well as those coordination mechanisms that need to be established to that end, which are so important in this area. In addition, the strategy will include – and this was already reflected in the law – actions and measures to promote the third social sector of Euskadi that the Basque Government is carrying out from its different departments, both in the field of social intervention and in relation to the promotion of economic activity and of the organizations that develop it. We have added "In particular, the grants and aid that the department responsible for social policies will promote in order to facilitate the functioning of the organizations and networks of the third social sector, as well as the implementation of social activities of general interest of supraterritorial scope by the organizations and networks". And, well, as a last resort, and I understand that there has been no problem – we thank all the groups for the good weather and the good reception as well – with a new article by the Basque Socialists group, we propose, after consultation in our own presentation to the correspondents and the correspondents who were there, the possibility of including the Basque observatory in the third sector. And, well, this law has included it. The Socialists present this new article, which has been assumed in its entirety. There has been only one technical change, of language, and what we have approved is that it will depend on the Basque Government which will be competent in the field of social services, and that it will be a technical instrument of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, responsible for the collection, systematization, updating and generation of information and knowledge, as well as its dissemination in the fields related to the third social sector and to the organizations and networks integrated in it. In addition, on a biennial basis, the Basque observatory in the third sector will prepare a comprehensive and comprehensive report on the situation and evolution of this part of the social reality, drawn up on the basis of statistical data collected, with particular attention to the gender, childhood and functional diversity perspective, which will be referred to the Civil Dialogue Bureau or body to replace it. Finally, in the development of its powers, the Basque observatory of the third social sector will work closely with the organisations and networks of the third social sector. The precise rules on their competences, tasks and functioning shall be laid down by regulation. We have managed to improve the original draft law, and this would not have been possible without the good climate in which the paper has developed. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for the good agreement and, of course, for the work of the organisations and networks in the third social sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Arrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u12	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. First of all, I want to welcome the representatives of the third social sector where the whole meeting is continued here today. As has been said, when we have completed all the proceedings concerning this bill of legislation, we have received a report from the committee today at the assembly of the whole question. First, as we have said at every moment of the process, for our team, EH Collector, the work which the third social sector has done and done for years and years, is no doubt a very important function. It is important to promote the cohesion, the inclusive, and the party of society, to protect the rights of men, and to work on the social modification which society requires in respect of all this. We have the third social sector that is widely different, which has a different reality in each country. On the one hand, associations which are widely different meet within the third social sector, some of them are great and have a great connection with the business world. In this sense, it is not the same with a small association, which has hardly any hired labor, or a great number of contractors, which are managed by hundreds of cases. Not the same as the associations or services that are not managed. On the other hand, in every country, we have a reality. The direct management of public affairs in the Araban is much more than that of Biscaian. Generally, the reality of the third social sector associations is different, as I have said, from land to country. In fine, being so many different states and realities, it is difficult sometimes to make a real X-ray, and to imagine what we are talking about, and what we are talking about. It takes a law, it's an old claim from the third social sector, which we share. We also wish to emphasise the necessity of a law which will give them the confession of the third sector, and the instrument and legal protection of its duties. On the other hand, the law requires the third sector to have its functions set mechanisms in the correct way, which will consider the challenge of the third sector in this direction. That way, from our point of view, the law becomes short. And we have a feeling that in the right direction we have lost opportunity to give you a new step. In fact, when M.M. brought the bill of law to the parliament, we said the law had much to do with it, that it had but little specifications and that it wasn't good enough to fill up the challenges with third social sectors. We have therefore made the amendments expressed in this direction. On the one hand, the third sector has been guaranteed to participate in public politics. On the other hand, the commitment to social modification, which is the indispensable feature of the third social sector, is not mentioned in the law, but in the law. It must be said with great difficulty that in some article any mention has been admitted to be made. In the offer of services, we wanted to make it clear that it is the responsibility of public institutions. It is for these, the public institutions are the means of securing the rights of persons, to which a great deal contributes to the right management of public affairs, in association with the third social sector. The co-ordination of the case has been mentioned before. It has much to do with what we're talking about. The duties of the third social sector are to make other criteria: worthy conditions of work, compacts, subrogation, equality between men and women from a genus point of view, the surrounding conditions, the health of labour, the eucalyptus. Some have been accepted, others have not been accepted. Companions to remove corporations from third social sector and its functions. And finally, to fill the third sector with all that has been said, the means and finance that the Administration has to secure. This is very important to us. It is essential. It is essential. It is necessary that there should be a sufficient financial and resources to ensure dignity and quality. Before we introduced these and others, we had the opportunity to talk about the matter above mentioned, and the whole of it with the various representatives and operating agents of the third social sector, and even the Network of Networks. It must be said that from the beginning we knew that the Network of Networks, which collects a third social sector, had a good liking for the original proposition: if this had improved, it would have been a good idea, but in any case they wanted the law to be brought out. With the nets we made an attempt, at least four corrections, to collect, to agree, and suggest. But these unfortunate ones have not been admitted to the work we've worked on, whether on the committee or on the job. And these four proposals were essential to us. At the end of the whole process, I must say that some corrections have been admitted to the process of discussion, or agreed by means of means of means, which, of course, is positive, and we posit positively. Finally, there are also those who remain unaccepted, and these are those which we have maintained today, and which we maintain for this whole meeting. Among those who have agreed through the medium or the medium, it is to be mentioned, because in a positive manner we rate the rights, we confess, we hope to exclude the mention of the Lutheran companies from the text today, because it is not yet certain that the direction of the cooperation of the public policy is subordinated to the policy, and the equality of certain changes made in the duties of the country, in the neighbourhood of the work-house... Several specs have been made. This legal proposition, which we have after the discussion of the rights, we must say, is more complete, more accurate. There are things that are no doubt better, but it's not enough from our point of view. Therefore, as has been said before: EH Collecting seems to have lost the opportunity to step forward or lost at a level to give more and necessary progress. A law is required for challenges of the third sector under adequate conditions, which I have already said, but the present text does not guarantee from our point of view. That's why we've kept some corrections at this entire meeting. I'll tell you the most important of them. First, I shall relate two directly to duty. One is to guarantee the labor conditions of the workers by default the treaties of the land. We believe that he has to guarantee sectors provided with public money. This discussion is not only the case with this sector, it's bigger than this, but here we have to talk about it. On the other hand, we demand to maintain our duty, and to determine more of it in the eucharist. It's just a recommendation. Only an excuse is required and nothing else, and we do not think it sufficient at the present moment. The administration has to guarantee the third sector enough finances. I've already mentioned why. In companies, we believe that the partnership between the third sector, as is planned in text, is not good. In companies we believe that the social responsibility of companies must be regulated and objectified by the true moral criteria of the service of society. We place ourselves in this direction, even in relation to the world of enpres. As a result of the Diagnostic, it is our proposition that public institutions should do directly and directly the specification of services to be handled and developed, and also those which should be developed with the third sector in co-worker. These are the corrections which we have maintained, and from our point of view we need strong public policies, and together with the organized society, which is a strong and courageous change, which stands in a great measure in the third sector, a fertile and sometimes conflictable union, to accomplish. By this law, we've been through a part of the way. However, from our point of view, the other significant part is to be done, with the imperfections and imperfections that can arise from it. We hope that, in the near future, we also take these steps to the advantage of the whole society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Adarz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u14	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President, Chief, congressmen. Thank you for being here, as well as the representatives of our towns and councils, and especially the representatives of the third social sector, which succeed from day to day to the attainment of social justice. Our legislative party would like to use this discussion to expose three realities. First reality: thirdly, there's a vast social sector in our community. This first reality, the reality of these organisations working for cohesion and social inclusion and for preventing collectives from being excluded from minimum levels of well-being. Through its work, it contributes to the inclusion, improvement of the quality of life, social participation and the effective recognition and exercise of social, political and economic rights, with particular attention to those facing situations of vulnerability and exclusion, lack of protection or dependence. And they do so through social intervention activities, understanding social services, the promotion of access to employment and any other aimed at promoting social inclusion, including activities developed for this purpose in the spaces of interaction between fields, policies and systems, among others the socio-laboral, socio-habitatal, socio-educational, socio-health or socio-judicial spaces. A first reality in which we can observe some clarifying data: the third social sector in Euskadi is made up of more than three thousand entities, with a workforce of around 35,000 workers, there are 125,000 volunteers and volunteers, their activity has an impact on the economy more than 2% of our GDP. But, beyond this quantitative data, we can say that its impact on the social field is far greater. It is a determining asset in shaping a more just and supportive society, helping those who need it most, and that is impossible to quantify, an important added value. We find it interesting to highlight within this first reality two details, two essential details of the third sector in our Community: how to organize and how to channel interaction with the institutions. I am talking about two key instruments: Sareen Sarea and the Civil Dialogue Bureau. Sareen Saarea, thirteen networks that bring together numerous organizations, whose mission is to promote a cohesive, inclusive and participatory society, while working for the consolidation and recognition of the third social sector itself. And the Civil Dialogue Bureau, the tool that enables dialogue between the sector and the administration, the highest body for consultation and participation of the third sector in the field of general administration. The second reality is that there are no natural pleasions. There's a third social sector. it puts and fills ends, arranges, communicates with the institutions, but does not reflect on our order. A second reality, this is not desired, and that we are going to pass this legislature today. We were reminded of the Salburu Toña in his speech to his predecessor the Salburu Aburto, who in one of his first appearances in February 2013 transferred to us his intention – and I quote – to "propose the elaboration in this legislature of a law on the third sector, law that gives value to all these entities that provide services to the citizenry, and that regulates (the law) its framework of relationship with the administration". It was the beginning of intense work between the Basque Government and the third sector, and in February 2015 the Executive passed the bill. A Sailburu, another Sailburu, a government, a program. A model of society. It is there, reflected in initiatives 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the second of the commitments for a more solidarity Euskadi with the most disadvantaged people, within the electoral program that the Basque Nationalist Party submitted to the consideration of citizenship in October 2012, where we proposed key commitments, such as the promotion of new management models based on the collaboration of the third social sector, the new channels of communication between the different actors, the progress in the mixed model of collaboration, the attention to the third social sector as a model of genuine management of a system of public responsibility, thus fulfilling a commitment to our society. And what does this law pursue? What are your goals? Firstly, and as has already been mentioned, the definition of the third social sector; secondly, the conclusion of civil dialogue; thirdly, the participation of the third sector in the management of public responsibility services; and finally, and generally, the strategies for promoting the third social sector. The main objective is to provide the sector with a legal framework to define it. It is given legal name, which allows it to be subject and protagonist of social policies. They are given visibility, as they reminded us in their appearances. The sector, its aims and its organizations are defined. Relations with administrations and their capacity for dialogue are strengthened. The law requires effective recognition of the important social contribution that its work entails. They are a fundamental asset in the construction of a cohesive society, and are thus recognized. As the Sailburu has just commented, the new rule will not only regulate the activities of organizations working exclusively in the field of social services, but also those that do so in other areas of social policy. This is something that differentiates us from the law that was passed in Congress, which is confined exclusively to the social sphere. The role of the sector in the development of this standard must certainly be highlighted today. The Government has gone hand in hand, together they have gone hand in hand, they have worked for more than two years. In their appearances, they talked to us about a high degree of harmony with the Executive. Their aspirations are mostly met. This synchrony, and that previous work they did, has also driven the work in this House. And third reality: I'm working for the law. And as a quick logbook, gathering briefs on what happened in the House, I would like to recall this journey. The start of the bill, March 2015; the promising and quick start, with the writings of requests for appearances and the corresponding appearances, September 2015. What was generally transferred to us in these appearances: prior consensus and the need for the law as soon as possible. And, all of a sudden, the desperate calm of the deadline for tabling amendments: October, the first of November, the end of November, the end of December... Slow senseless. And finally, almost with Olentzero, the amendments. Two data: 139 amendments, not including two technical amendments; only two articles (14 and 19) without amendment. This could give us an initial picture of a controversial rule, but it is not, and if the texts of the amendments are carefully analysed, we quickly come to a clear conclusion: closeness in the approaches. Logically, each group from its perspective. The paper. All we had left to do was work hard on each of the sessions. And so it has been done, also using the time between sessions to exchange texts, always looking for agreement. And what was the result? That we've been getting deals. So easy: to want and to do. More than 50 % of the amendments, integrated; slightly less than 20 %, withdrawn, being largely meaningless in the face of transactions, and only 30 % rejected. Agreements: to seek them, to pursue them, to obtain them. From here, our sincere appreciation of the work of each and every parliamentary group. Eskerrik asko denoi. Mahaiburu anderea, we withdraw our particular votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u15	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. We'll take the answers turn. Does anyone want to be a part of this group? Mr. Maneiro... - Isn't it? Mr. Barrio... - Isn't it? Lady Sarah? Not even. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, Let's start the vote. First, we vote for the Special EH Collect Group, Section 6. the text of the article still retains, but e., with a change received in correction. Yeah? We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u16	So he didn't accept it. Next up, the Euscal Socialist votes the particular vote of the team, the text of article 6. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 46; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstain, 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u17	So it's accepted. At the vote, at the same time, the articles reserved by the Basque Popular Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 10; counters, 63; white, 0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u18	So they didn't accept it. Next, together with the subsidies reserved by the Misto-UPyD team. Yes...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u19	137 and 139 apart, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u20	La 137 y la 139 aside, Conjuntamente. - Valerie. Well, we vote 137 and 139 first. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 11. The opposites, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u21	So they didn't accept it. After that, we'll vote for the other amendments. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 1, contrary, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u22	So they didn't accept it. After that, we're going to vote for the rights reserved by the EH team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u23	The corrections are not accepted. Next, they vote together, article 1, 6, 7 and 8, to which the Euskal populars are reserved. We can vote... [[Berber]] Let's see, let's see, let's see... Zuenak will say... They're... The 1, 6, 7 and 8 are your amendments... The 6th apart? (Berbotsa)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u24	That's it. (Berbotsa)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u25	Carmelo, yes, please... The 6th side, because you're gonna throw it different. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The vote, we vote again. Then we vote one, seven, eight, then the 6th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u26	It was unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the 6th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 64; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstain, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u27	So it's accepted. The two and three articles go together to the vote with which the Euskal populars and Misto-UPyDs are reserved. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 41; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstain, 32.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u28	So they're accepted. The articles go to the vote at nine-and-a-half, to which the corrections are reserved the popular Basques, Mistto-UPyDk and EH Collect. We can vote... Yes, Mr. Maniro?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u29	Yeah. What are the articles, please, which you propose that we vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u30	Articles 9 and 12, to which you've booked the corrections. You will know what each one of you has reserved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u31	But these are articles that have been amended by different groups. Then I call for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u32	Yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u33	Separate vote on these articles, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u34	Okay. 9 on the one hand and 12 on the other?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u35	Yes, thank you. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u36	Please, we vote again. First, we vote the 9th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 42; counters, 21. White, 0; Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u37	So they're accepted. Next, we vote for the 12th article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 41; contrarys, 21. Whites, 0; Abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u38	So they're accepted. After that, they vote at the same time, 11 and 19. articles, to which the Mytto-UPyD and the EH Collect teams have been booked... Yeah, divorced. Okay, 11 out of one and then 19. We can vote for the corrections imposed on 11. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 25; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstain, 48.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u39	So it's accepted. Next, we vote for the terms set by the 19th. You can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 52; counters, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u40	So they're accepted. Articles 15 and 16 go together to the vote, to which the corrections are reserved the popular Basque Groups and the EH Collect groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 42; counters, 21. White, 0; Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u41	So they're accepted. They sit at the vote together, article 17 and 20, to which the Basque Popular Groups are reserved. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 14; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstain, 59.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u42	So they're accepted. The article 23rd goes to vote, to which the corrections are reserved the EH Collecting Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 52; counters, 21. White, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u43	So they're accepted. The third additional regulation to which the Misto-UPyD team has reserved it. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 51; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u44	So they're accepted. The Articles of Judgment, that have no Right at all; that is to say, 4.5, 10, 13, and 14, 18, 21, and 22. First, Second, and fourth testimonies; the first of the latter, the second, and third, is the name of Reason, and Law. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: You can hear it. Yeah? With your permission, Mrs. President, we'd like you to vote separately the first of the final regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u45	Okay, then we vote first of the final regulations. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 25; contraries, 27; white, 0; abstinence, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u46	So he didn't accept it. We'll vote for the rest of them. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 52; counters, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u47	So they're accepted. The Act of the Social Sector is therefore approved. Second point on the subject list: "Mortion, my brother, my brother, was introduced by the members of the Basque Team, the 4th of the Bilbo subway, and the 5th lines. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Llanos, it's yours to introduce and get rid of the word. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u49	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Well, fifteen days ago we presented an inquiry to the lehendakari about exactly the commitment that the Basque Government that he presides had to lines 4 and 5 of the metro, some lines whose development was in the electoral programme with which he presented himself to the elections but which remained there, in the electoral programme. And after the counselor's answer the other day it seems that she will stay there for quite a while, because here investments are planned in the long term; as she said, calmly and calmly. All of us, especially some of us, and not just in the electoral campaign, are committed to promoting public and sustainable transport as an indicator of progress and development. We all, therefore, bet to push the subway as a symbol of that progress and that progress of a modern country. And that is the case: the most modern cities, the main European cities, have very wide metro networks. We said it then, and we want to highlight it again now. The metro has been an element of vertebration of Bilbao, Bizkaia and, therefore, of Euskadi; an element of social cohesion and citizen cohesion, as well as an element of undoubted economic dynamism. In other parts of Spain, cities like Madrid and Barcelona have metro networks that connect the whole territory, and the expansions of this network in those cities are at a much faster pace than ours. While in other places they go at cruising speed, building miles of subway, here we have hardly even taken off. It is a matter of priorities for each other. In Euskadi we are filled with words of progress, of development, of evolution, but on some issues, as in this one, that has no reflection. And if in Euskadi we really want to progress and evolve we have to offer a transport network that will bring us closer to those parameters of the main European cities and the rest of Spain. It is necessary that this expansion of the metro continue, that it does not stop, and that this expansion be made at the pace of a modern train, of a high-speed train, and not at the pace of a freight train, as it is now. And within that network the metro lines 4 and 5 are fundamental. As you all know, ladies and gentlemen, line 4 is the one that will connect the neighborhoods of Matiko and Rekalde, and line 5 will unite Etxebarri with Galdakao, reaching the hospital of Usansolo. For this reason, the two lines have an important area of influence, affecting thousands of vizcains and, therefore, thousands of Basques. We all understood that, as I said, even the very party that supports the Government. For this reason, the program of the Basque Nationalist Party in the past elections reflected this development of lines 4 and 5 of the metro as one of the commitments. And I was asking the lehendakari fifteen days ago about what that electoral commitment meant, because, despite bringing it on the agenda, shortly after winning the elections that commitment is diluted, and it is clearly said that these lines are not going to start in this legislature. I was then asking him what exactly the development of lines 4 and 5 means for the PNV because it has not moved from the role to the work; what is the commitment this Government has to those lines, or, rather, what is it going to have, because in this legislature it has certainly not had any. And Mr. Urkullu didn't even answer. He's not even here today. It seems that the lehendakari does come out to answer when asked about the new status or identity issues, but when it comes to accounting for management, perhaps because of the poor balance that it has to offer to this House and the Basques, it never comes out to this rostrum. And we were answered by the counselor, who is not here today either (the subject is also not of interest to you). Well, the answer is a saying, because the other day Mrs. Ogi didn't tell us anything we didn't already know. He told us about various performances on lines 1 and 2 of the subway. He told us about line 3, which, by the way, is also late, because this line had planned its completion in 2013, but it was necessary – textual words – "to reprogram and reorient it, in order to adapt the rhythms to the availability of existing resources". And we were told that line 3, it was the one that concentrated the economic efforts of the Basque Government. And what's going on? You have to ask yourself. That they're incompatible? Are they incompatible now but not in 2009, when the Socialist Party ruled? The counselor on lines 4 and 5 also spoke to us. He told us where those lines were going to go and the stations they were going to have. Well, well, I have to say that these projects have been defined for years; that the details that were presented here, and as they were presented here, were already in 2011 documents. For example, on line 4, exactly, as I say, the stations and with the descriptions the counselor gave here the last day. Or line 5, which already in 2009 established the stations, and, by the way, it was expected to be completed by 2016, this year. So what do we got? Nothing but paper. I told him in the interpellation that the history of these lines has gone through different vicissitudes. In 2011, in a study of the metro itself for performances up to 2020, line 4 had a budgeted cost of 372 million, was under information study, and the forecast was that it would be operational in 2018. The 5, as I say, which reaches the Galdakao hospital, Usansolo specifically, was expected to be in 2016. At that time there was criticism of the delay in line 5 of the metro and it was required (and I say well, it was required) that funds be included in the 2012 budgets for this line, and that its construction be started that same year. But despite these demands, despite taking it on the electoral agenda, and contrary to what might be thought, the Basque Government, once again in nationalist hands, announced in 2014 that in the next three years it does not plan to push the 4 and 5 lines of the metro. And this is corroborated by Bizkaia's own outlaw deputy, Mr Rementeria, who points out that in this legislature (i.e. in the General Councils that goes until 2019) line 5 will have to wait. Because the Bizkaia Provincial Council subordinates the construction of these lines to the evolution of the collection. That is what Mr Bizkaia said when he said that it is expected that this collection will be known so that, according to the Basque Government, deadlines and priorities will be set. And the councilwoman herself pointed out that she is looking to the future, but, yes, planning in the long term; as I say, calmly and calmly. And that is why we have to ask ourselves: Why does the opposition have to be for now, for the following year, and, instead, when it is in the government, everything is trusted in the long term?; why are these lines not a priority when in government, but are they a priority when in opposition?; why are some lines passionately demanded five years ago, and now you have to wait to see how much you collect to set deadlines and priorities?; why does the arrival to the Government involve an injection of valerian that brings calm and calm to the construction? As we say, how much to wait and what does the development of lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro mean? We believe that an investment as important as this requires commitment, seriousness and rigour, requires setting a timetable, requires setting deadlines, even starting construction, and requires an economic plan. And in this legislature there has been absolutely none of this. Absolutely none of this. It seems clear that the projects for the construction of lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro are an electoral resource, a recurring promise of the Basque Nationalist Party, but that, of course, they are neither a political commitment nor an economic commitment on the part of the institutions in which it governs. And I am sure that in these elections, in the next autonomous elections, you will go back to Usansolo, you will go back to Rekalde, to promise lines 4 and 5 of the subway. As I said, and I repeat again today, there has not been a single candidate, nor will there be a single candidate from the Basque Nationalist Party who does not say that these projects are priorities. But what he does is that, say it, but never bring it to practice. We already know that at this point the neighbours of Bilbao, Rekalde, Matiko and Galdakao have to keep sitting waiting, but sitting in the park (of course not in the metro station), or, if not, in the shuttle. And this is the management of this government, this is the management of Mr Lehendakari. Management is to say what has been done, not drum and dish acts in shirt sleeves and with a wireless microphone. No, that's not making a management balance. It is to come here and account for what they have promised and what they have not done, in this case. And he didn't even answer us, as I say, and today he's not even here. And you have to explain to the citizenry, because, to see if what's good for you is not good for others. Because the PNV always demands from others what is not required of itself. And they have to say clearly that they have not fulfilled the commitments. On numerous occasions, however, they charge against other administrations, against the central administration – and here Mrs Oregi herself did it the other day – against the central administration and its lack of commitment, the alleged lack of commitment to Basque infrastructure, as they did to the Y, on a question on which you know the political obstacles that have been encountered, you know the economic difficulties that have been encountered, with a government that has gone through much more economic difficulties than the Basque Government itself, and yet has committed itself to the Basque Y. Well, you haven't committed to transport in Euskadi. They call for other commitments, while this Government does not offer any. Because lines 4 and 5 of the subway sleep in the box of the electoral promises of the PNV candidates, and from that box you will take them out again in election campaign. They remained at the end of May, and will surely return again in the next elections. As I say, some people get their mouths filled to criticize Madrid, but they hide their heads because they do not want to account for their own responsibilities and commitments, because they have totally failed. And we believe that we need to move from electoral promises, that we need to stop selling smoke, that we need to account for management, and we need to use the instruments that self-government gives us (because here they won't say they have no competence to do so)... use these tools to make them available to Basques, to improve the quality of life of Basques. And, of course, improving transport is ostensibly improving the quality of life of Basques. But, as the outlaw MP said to a colleague of ours, it's a matter of priorities, and it's clear that for you it's not a priority, lines 4 and 5 are not a priority, and that's why... Instead, ETB does. In ETB they do not care, in four years' time, to establish and say what the Basque Government is going to give them. But you are unable to say what amounts you and this Government would be committed to in four years' time to make lines 4 and 5 a reality. No, they're incapable! They've been incapacitated in this legislature, and they're incapacitated. We believe that the Basques deserve to know what the deadlines are, what the timetable for action is, and what budgetary commitments this House is prepared to make to make those lines 4 and 5 a reality. And that is what I asked the lehendakari in this Parliament, to account for those forecasts, to account for the deadlines that the government was running. Or is it that the government does not manage any time frame? Don't they even manage deadlines for the start of the works, the completion of the works, when each of these stations will be ready? Is that not even what the Basque Government is planning? And if you're expecting it, why don't you answer it? What's the reason for not answering? And we didn't get any answers, because what Mrs Oregi did can be called anything, less answer. Everything, less answer. He succinctly explained to us (these were his words, "succinously") the lines, and told us that, if we wanted to know more about the projects, we were invited to do so. And I thank him for the invitation to know the projects, but, man, I would thank him infinitely more than he would invite us to put the first stone, to invite us to the works, at the beginning of the works. But it is not that I would thank him infinitely more: it is that the neighbours of Bilbao, the neighbours of Rekalde, Matiko, the neighbours of Galdakao, would thank him infinitely more that the works began at once, and not that they would invite them to see the project. Because for that, like I said 15 days ago, they already have Wikipedia. But I think the neighbors are sick of it that when you put "line 4 and 5 of the subway" in a search engine you only see the drawing, and that the Basque government, with the lehendakari at its head, is not willing to teach us anything but the drawing. The drawing! That's right, in an election campaign, he'll say it's a priority again. You will do an act, right?, in Rekalde Square and you will say again that it is a priority. You will go to Galdakao, or Usansolo, to the red square, where there is one of the exits, and you will say again that it is a priority. For it will be from now on, because so far it has not been at all. I say to you: 2016, this year was planned, and there is not a stone on. There is only one drawing, a project that has been done since 2009, drawn. And in the other case since before, but above all, in the detail that Mrs Oregi said, since 2011. What about it? Smoke. Promises. Not a commitment. And that is what we want to get out of here today, because we believe that citizens deserve commitments at all times, not just in election campaign. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u51	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Elola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u52	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. Basque Socialists stand firm in support of a public and permanent service strategy. There is no doubt that the enlargement of meters, as a structurer of the country, in the case of Biscay, has contributed to it. I must remark, that we have agreed with that middle-directional party, if I have time afterwards, I will explain the details, which is new, for the following reason: for we think it more proper to direct a command, which conforms to the time left to the government. It was a funny thing to say that Poppella Party had left him in his motion, as I explained, a budget plan for the future bill of law-making, in fact, that the government has taken very little effort in this substructure. Reports that will be present inside this schedule and investment priority should be explained. This is more convenient for us, because the motion, in truth, does not possess the fourth and the fifth. Replying to the will of the lines. The origin of this motive is an interpelation of a schemer who did not speak too much of it. The appeal was proposed as a counter-reproduce to M.M., about the criticisms caused by the delays of the AHT train. This dispute and competition here often occurs, and we often bear witness to it. Sociists believe that all substructures are the subways of the Sostrotics, the Donostical subways, the high-speed train demands Tancredi's seriousness and prudence, because the citizens think we're laughing at them. And of this we know the socialists, because it was the previous government, with the lehendakari Patxi López, who clearly bet to go ahead with these infrastructures, despite living the worst time of the crisis, when the income data were worse, and when with more disloyalty and criticism the then main opposition group behaved. There were no excuses to begin the works of the third line, which will be a reality within a few months. There were no excuses to recover the pulse of the development of the high-speed train, using the self-government, which allows the commissioning and the discount via quota, to let go of all the sections of Gipuzkoa. There were no excuses to begin the development of a solution in Donostialdea, that if it had not been for the obstinacy of EH Bildu would not yet be completed. I insist, in the midst of a crisis. This is what the Socialists realize, without excuses. Without the excuses that the current Government has repeatedly resorted to throughout the legislature, because it is simply a government with difficulties in setting priorities. Thus, in November 2014, by surprise, we were all able to see how the Basque Government did not contemplate in its budgets the thrust of lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro, which was what was already planned in the development of sustainable transport in Bizkaia. In fact, Mrs Oregi herself came to say that the extensions to Rekalde and Galdakao, which is what we are talking about, were not priorities. We don't know if they're priorities now. The Socialists are already in charge of denouncing this fact, but we did not stay there, we did something more important. We get wet in this Parliament, we don't keep a profile, as others do. And, in the face of Mrs Oregi's commitment to return these projects to the cash register, budgeting exactly zero euros, we, the Socialist Party, have included in the accounts an item of 1,730,000 euros to carry out the construction studies still not carried out for those lines. I say we get wet, we don't profile, like others do. To-day Poppular Party wants to repeat in the legislature the work of opposition made in Biscay, regardless of the details like this: That the members of Mr Ruiz, who is a spokesman of the Polula Party in the grand council, did not allow him to do what he wants from the budget. What happened after that? What's most common in this government, some of the subsidies you've made by this lawyer, according to your wishes, is that it's either crazy or not. The development of the 4th and 5th lines was not among his plans, and he added it to the unexplored funding list. So, thanks to the efforts of the Socialist team, we've given the will of fun once more to get his attention to general interests, in this case, to the interests of the inhabitants. Now at least, though late, we're on the test-phase. We are going to stop toasting to the sun. Let us see if, even if it is too late, this Government finishes some of its many tasks and stops hiding behind the long shadow of compliance with the deficit rules. Of course you have to be responsible for spending, and of course no one doubts that the economic situation is not the most appropriate to start the brave big infrastructure projects! It is a matter of priorities, but the economic situation cannot paralyze future projects, which is something where this Government is cutting back. We have to prioritise, we have to clean up what we want to do, how much and what are the prospects to be able to pay for it. This is precisely what we are interested in in this discussion; Beyond the interests of proposers, we may have a certain schedule of investigations and the beginning of the project. And with this technical investigation, the next legislature will have to fix the budget, the next legislative. As for the Basque Socialists, I can assure you that in the past and now, even in the future, the 4th and 5th lines will have a full priority. We think we have to open it to the Reform and the Galdaka, and it's important that we don't have to stop at all. For this purpose it has been our intention to make a correction to this motion, which has been introduced by the Poppular party, as I have said before, and consequently to allow this government, if it be so determined by the legislature, to enter into an engagement, and so says the Eurcanist and the Socialists have signed up among the groups. First Point: "The U.S.A. wants to continue to develop and promote the subway expansion in Biscaia, the Big Fortal of Biscay, as a sign of the strategic bet for public transports, efficiently effective, and land structurer, 4th and 5. Followed online study and project. And the second point says: "From that block, the Basque Bill wants to send him to this Chamber, before this meeting is over, when you're done with it, it's gonna have to take place before the end of this meeting, so it's gonna have to be an engagement to end the research and technical projects as far as the 4th and 5th line of the Bilbo subway. To the other teams, those who have not taken part in this proposal, I ask you to consider ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. From what I have heard from the speakers who have spoken before me, I think we all agree to take the subway as a reference transport, and to structure the territory, and as an instrument for social panic. The Bilbao metro was and is a strategic bet for clean, safe and sustainable transport, the importance of which today – and I remarry today – no one seems to question it. But to reach today we have to analyze its origin, the origin of that strategic bet, and also put into value the important effort made and the results obtained so far. So, as far as origin is concerned, it should be remembered that only the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party made a clear commitment to this infrastructure in the 1980s. Yes, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party were the ones who bet on this infrastructure that we all praise today. And with regard to the effort made and the results obtained, public investments in transport in Bizkaia have been and are very important. The current debt of lines 1 and 2, to which the Basques and Basques are facing, amounts to EUR 452 million. And line 3, where current investor efforts are being concentrated for start-up at the beginning of next year, will require an investment of 279 million euros. In addition, the studies and technical projects under lines 4 and 5 referred to in the People's Group motion are under way. This motion proposes to urge the Basque Government to present before the end of the current session (i.e. just over a month) the deadlines for the start and end of lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro and the corresponding budget plan. The other day you mentioned your surprise ability regarding the answer given to you by the counselor in the interpellation. We are also surprised that a parliamentary woman like you and a party like yours, who consider themselves serious, make such a proposal, which we believe is due to pure electoral opportunism. And we will answer the points raised in your motion. First of all, we understand that the deadline is totally impossible for a responsible and serious government: to set in a month a calendar, a timetable, with deadlines for start-up and completion, without yet having the work and technical studies completed, without having the constructive projects of some sections of these lines. We therefore understand that it is prudent to wait until the work and technical studies are completed, and to see the evolution of the collection (yes, see the evolution of the collection) in order to know the budget availability. Something that shouldn't surprise you, and if you're surprised, then I'll put in the mouth of some leaders of the People's Party statements that go in this line. Thirdly, we believe that, as you put it, it is not a unilateral decision of the Basque Government to set that timetable. As you well know, this is a play... the infrastructure of the Bilbao suburb is financed through public society ETS, is financed at 50% between the Basque Government and the Foral Diputación de Bizkaia. There is therefore a need for an agreement, and we must also see, with regard to the Bizkaia Foreign Office, what are its economic availabilities and priorities, as I said. And finally, time. We are a month away from the end of the last part-session of this parliamentary term, and to put this, as we say, and the spokesman for the Socialist Party also said, seems hasty to us. And we clearly leave open the door for the new government to be formed after the next autonomous elections to decide, on the basis of technical and definitive data. Mrs Llanos also talks about the electoral programme of the PNV, with which she presented herself in the 2012 elections, where it is true that it includes as one of the commitments the development of the urban, metropolitan and interurban railway system. More specifically, on this subject, on the Bilbao metro, the initiative 20 of the seventh commitment mentions the urban integration of the metro in Urdulliz and the development of lines 4 and 5. And to the facts we refer. During this parliamentary term, economic efforts have focused mainly on completing the work on line 3, so that it will come into operation at the beginning of next year, with a total investment of 279 million euros. Here in this House we approved a GNP with the Socialist Party (I believe that the People's Party at the end also joined), in which we urged it to be inaugurated before the end of 2016; logically these works, as you know, are not pure mathematics, and in the end they will be inaugurated in the first quarter of 2017, which seems reasonable. And all this without forgetting lines 1 and 2. On line 1, the subway underground at its passage through Urduliz, which, as you have seen, is also in our program; the parking lot of Ibarbengoa; on line 2, the putting into service of the Santurtzi-Kabiezes section... Logically, this also has a cost, and the budget, as you well know, and the economic situation is what it is. And all this also does not forget to continue working on the development of lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro, as our electoral programme says well. Lines 4 and 5 of the subway do not remain on the electoral programme, they do not remain, as he said on the 22nd, asleep in some drawer of the electoral promises. These are future projects, long-term investments, as the advisor said... You should know, and I'm sure you know, that such a project requires informational studies, environmental impact statements, construction projects, facility and service projects, etc. And, logically, these projects are renewed... every four years there are elections, and commitments are renewed in their case, and citizens evaluate and value what has been achieved. No voy aurekle cómo están los studios y minos porque la cone hizo un succinto repaso. Ademandás, the 20th of April, because of your incompatibility and your interference, the Signora chief physician gave you a quick summary of the condition of the development of those lines. He even offered to give you, twice, personally or through your team, exactly or technically, a description. Pero, parce que esto edino sé si le interest As you rightly say, Mrs Llanos, such an important investment requires commitment, seriousness and rigour. And it doesn't go from night to morning, as you should know, and you know it too. He's telling us about delays! I will simply give you an example, which you have also mentioned: the high-speed train, a project of 1989, planned for completion by 2010, and which is now talking about 2019 or 2020. Calm and quiet he was talking about, too. Obviously the neighbours of Rekalde, Matiko and Galdakao want the metro to reach their neighborhoods, but we also need to analyse the economic availability and priorities. That's management, that's management: prioritize with the resources you have. And that's what the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Provincial Council are doing. And today's priorities are very clear, given the economic situation, despite the investments I have mentioned: they are guaranteeing social services (health, education, social protection) and economic recovery. And this also for the neighbors of Rekalde, Matiko and Galdakao. And all this in view of budgetary rigour, which Mr Margallo referred to the other day, saying that four peoples had passed with the application of austerity measures. It is a budgetary rigour that should therefore sound like the representatives of the Group of the European People's Party, and that with initiatives like these they seem to be unaware of. He said the economic situation here is better than elsewhere. Perhaps it is also management, it is also management, and despite the fact that in the last three and a half years of the last legislature, with its invaluable support, there was a tenfold increase in the debt of this country. Budgetary rigour. The Basque Government has complied with the public deficit control imposed by its party from Madrid. And, as the counselor said, it is a responsible government with spending, responsible with investments in mobility, addressing needs and territorial balance. You were talking about lines 4 and 5 of the subway, but, as I mentioned before, there are also lines 1, 2 and 3, the subway of Donostialdea, the extension of the Gasteiz tram, the elimination of steps at the level, and a long and so on that are also in our electoral program, in our commitments. He said that the deputy general had said that no investment would be made in this legislature. In particular, what the deputy general said is that no new investments will be made in the Bilbao metro until the current work on line 3 is completed. As we have said, line 3 will end at the beginning of next year, but it does seem clear that the Government cannot and should not engage in more projects than can be financed or paid for. The Basque Government, as the councillor told him, and this party I represent continues to maintain its original stake for the development of the Bilbao metro (others have boarded the train in this case, us from the beginning), and also for the whole transformation of the city of Bilbao. We have reached a compromise with the Socialist Group, to which I am grateful for your willingness to reach an agreement, which I am not going to read; Mr Elola has read it, and therefore I am not going to repeat it. A commitment is required from the Government to establish, before the end of the session, a timetable for the completion of technical studies and projects that will allow the Government and the Parliament to take the necessary decisions at a later date. And we think it prudent to know the full scope of the necessary investments (we are talking about the order of 600 million euros) in order to be able to put on the table a concrete proposal, and that it be the new government that, in coordination with the Bizkaia Foreign Office, takes the appropriate decisions. We therefore believe that it is more reasonable and feasible than initially proposed by the Group of the European People's Party, and we therefore call for support from the rest of the groups in the House. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u56	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Llanos suggests that we urge the Basque Government to present before the end of the current session (i.e. in just a month and a half) the deadlines for the start and completion of lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro and the corresponding budget plan, as a demonstration of the necessary momentum to these lines. I understand that it is a motion that is certainly trying to put pressure on the government, to put it in evidence, to remind it of the electoral programme of the Basque Nationalist Party, and to confront it that certain work that should have been done by now has not yet been carried out, and therefore uses this motion for all this. It seems to us that this motion is impossible to carry out, and we are also not in favour of urging the Government to carry out certain infrastructures which, if necessary, may not be as high-priority as some groups say they are. I believe that, of course, as has been said here, many things must be taken into account: the economic situation must be taken into account, the budgetary situation must be taken into account, the real needs of thousands of citizens must be taken into account, the evolution of the economy must be taken into account, and the huge superfluous expenditure that continues to exist in Euskadi must also be taken into account. And, ultimately, I think we need to make a general reflection on the use of our public money, what is being done with it, what is being done with it, what is being done with it, and whether that is actually how we respond to people's real needs. We think that the Bilbao metro lines, lines 4 and 5, are of those necessary infrastructures that have to be carried out, but these in particular, today, how many priorities are there?, how many urgent? Where do we get these infrastructures from so that they can be carried out as soon as possible, if they are actually intended to be carried out as soon as possible? What are our priorities? This metro expansion, how urgent is it?, how high a priority? These are the questions we would like to ask, because we are obviously talking about a very important matter, and we are talking about a lot of public money. I prefer to talk about the state of well-being, of health, of education, of social spending. That, I think, is absolutely a priority! And while certain infrastructures are also really important, we are not in favour of urging the Government to speed up certain actions, when the economic situation is what it is and when so many citizens suffer from the scarcity of public resources to meet their vital needs on a day-to-day basis. On the other hand, the fundamental argument of this motion, or of any other motion, I believe that it cannot be the electoral programme of the Basque Nationalist Party or the promises of the Basque Nationalist Party either. The issue is how high a priority this particular project is for each of the political groups. Finally, we feel closer to the transactional signed by the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, because moreover, as I said at the beginning, the motion of the People's Group seems unrealistic, beyond highlighting a breach of the Basque Nationalist Party. We feel closer to the transactional signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Group. We think it's more realistic. It is pointed out that this infrastructure is also necessary, and needs to be carried out. You attack each other and are mutually responsible for the failure of certain infrastructures to move forward, including this one. In this case, all of you may be right, because perhaps the question is not to promise what cannot be achieved, both in the electoral campaign and in the pre-campaign, as well as throughout the year, or also in relation to what we propose in our various electoral programmes. That is the problem in politics: that there are political parties, that there are governments that promise to carry out certain actions even though they know that it is practically impossible to carry them out, let alone within the deadlines to which they initially commit themselves. This is a problem that needs to be remembered and that needs to be censored. But, in any case, the key is to determine the resources we have at our disposal, also the huge superfluous spending we continue to incur, the needs of citizens, and their priorities. And from there give answer. In short, lines 3 and 4 of the Bilbao metro are necessary and we believe that they are a project for the future, and, of course, it must be carried out seriously and rigorously. We are not in favour of urging the Basque Government, in this particular matter, to speed up certain actions, when we think that citizens have other needs that are certainly more urgent, beyond the fact that this is also an important issue that deserves to be addressed. That is why we will vote in favour of the compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u57	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Gather the Representative of the EH team, Mrs. Ottagon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u58	Good morning, everyone. Euscal Popularians of Parliament 4th of the Bilbo subway. and we have not shown any correction to the conclusion of the interpenetration which has been set before us on lines, as these lines, which we doubt not, are either indispensable or necessary in this respect, as they are projected according to the information we have. Not a month ago, we discussed another proposal as established by the Basque Socialist as a bill of law, in which a night train was ordered to be put into service. Then we declared that the necessity for the movement of the population was indispensable to the satisfaction of making a profound examination. And in this case also this proposition will receive the same answer from us. Eunerative patriot has introduced a full-grulisted billing correction to the motion, to ask you to go on, to beg you to go on, to work together with the Big One, to develop exams and projects from the metropolis to connect the railway with Galdanos (5. line) and the line extension (4) which is now being constructed. to-line). The object of this is to obtain an effective public service of quality, arranged in the manner in which it belongs to the country. Did you say that in the examinations and projects that are developing, the various possibilities of the course have been studied? Are those careers, which are exactly proposed, absolutely necessary? Did Bilbo open his offer and look at the proper employment services he could give in an appropriate timetable? Has it been examined how the process of intermolding in the region of the Biscaibus service would affect it? Before making an investment with a $600 million in cost, we need to make a report that would necessarily check the cost of cost. In this study economic income, social income, and, of course, environmental resources should also be considered. To answer the wants of the citizen, we must consider the best arrangement of the transport together with the citizen, and decide which transports and movables we are about to encourage with the citizen. It should be considered as a whole as the demand of public transport, and all the various options which are placed on the table, as well as that of which the public transport is to be performed, and which society is to be directed. In our opinion, the subway is not the only solution to the movable affairs of Bilbo and the surrounding population, and, considering the enormous investments that suppose less, we know where these investments lead us, to increase the debt of public administration, for the sake of the financial interest of cement and a few of them. Why do we choose them and give them the full priority to such megacygists? Why build this in the name of development? The process of development must be tolerable, temperate and efficient, otherwise it is not development. This unlimited development is already falling on us. It seems to us that there are high-priority duties, and among them it is a strong wager of interoperative activity, and of the one card which we have a long time since observed, taking all the necessary measures. And, in order to explain things, though we have shown them more than once and more in different forums, the only card we defend ought to fill up many characters, which, in the case of Biscay, must be followed by the following. He should be useful to all the means of transportation in Biscay, be Bilbo, Biscaibus, Metro, Renfe, or Fever. The interifact system should be fixed, without punishing transport changes. The offset from one point to any other point, the voyage should be a price, fixed, no matter how many transports it changes, and it is the same whether it be chosen or taken without opportunity. And don't let anyone think Barik keeps these functions or properties, 'cause he'd be so wrong. Well, if you connect transports with the card, the trips are 20% cheaper, while only the sources and destinations will determine the price. In addition to the interoperative and one card we have mentioned, we believe it ought to be a great priority, even the improvements of the railway-line. And I'm not only talking about Bilbo and the railway line around him, nor about the Biscare railway network, but about the railway net of the entire Euskal Autonomia Erria, where he's been in need of improvement. And, of course, if we had a full right to the handling of the railway line that we have no longer any hand in the day. No one can deny that the right coordination of different transports renders the whole transportation system more efficient. So, as I said in another discussion, EH Collect's wager is clear in the field of mobileness: we make a firm wager for a tolerable motion, and we must put all the means we can to support it. And we will give the opposition to this motive which has been introduced from the Populian group, because we do not see that in these times of legislation such a demand is logical, or that it has logic; and, on the other hand, we are not opposed to that which has been made between the Election of the Pure Party and the PSE, and therefore we will appeal to Absence. But, as I have said, it seems to us that there would be an opportunity to start a number of enterprises which have a higher priority or higher priority, and that the next Government ought to decide which priority is in the transportation policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u59	Thank you, Madam Mount. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u60	Thank you again, Madam President. Well, briefly to refer to some of the statements of other spokespersons. With regard to UPyD – although it is not, he will read it later – this group certainly has no doubt that we have to bet on the social welfare of citizens, for investing in their education, in their health..., but we also believe that it is to bet on the citizens to bet on a more efficient transport, on a public transport that allows them that mobility. And, of course, I do want to make it clear that for the People's Party of the Basque Country, lines 4 and 5 are a priority, and they have always been. And with regard to speeding up actions, man, therefore, taking into account the time that these lines carry, I also believe that we have different dictionaries, because we talk about "accelerating" in the construction of the Bilbao metro and the Bilbao metro lines, with the delays that they carry, because it seems to me, of course, that, as I say, we have different concepts. And in relation to EH Bildu I want to say that it is true, that we could count on the citizens and that the citizens give their opinion. I believe that the citizens, the neighbours of both Galdakao and Bilbao have given it, and they do consider these lines necessary. And, in any case, in the elections to the Bizkaia General Councils, EH Bildu specifically in Galdakao bet precisely on establishing an intermodal in Sarratu and bet on line 5. I don't know if he's changed his mind now. With regard to the Socialist Party, he spoke of interest. Make no mistake, the interest is a bet on lines 4 and 5 of the metro. The issue lies in the difference in the treatment of the demands of the Basque Nationalist Party when it comes to demanding others or when it has to account for what it does. And then I'll insist on that. And it's not a question of kidding them. I think it's also a matter... which is not that we're at the end of the legislature. It arises precisely from a few words from the other institution that is involved in this matter, which is indeed the Bizkaia Provincial Council. And specifically the words that Mr. Rementeria said were: "Line 5 has to wait for the next legislature." To the next legislature! That means that in the 2015-2019 legislature it is not going to be built. And with regard to the fact that we have not been able to talk about this and that Mr Ruiz has prevented it at the Bizkaia General Councils, I will tell you that there is a non-standard proposal pending in relation to this same point, in which I assume that the same arguments that are being made here today will be repeated. And with regard to the Basque Nationalist Party, he speaks of compromise and compromise, and speaks of phrases. I will read you a few sentences: "We demand a firm commitment from the Government and a concrete date. It is not for us to be told that it will be done as soon as possible. Budget and technical planning will be requested to ensure that this commitment is met." These are requests that the Basque Nationalist Party makes to the ministry about the Basque Y, that these commitments be put on a paper, because it is not worth what is said about mouth. With one difference, and it is that the commitment of the Government of Spain in relation to the Basque Y in this legislature is more than tested, more than tested, by the budgetary allocations it has had in all the years. This government's commitment to lines 4 and 5, zero. Zero. Zero commitments. And in relation to line 3, it had to be rearranged in order to adapt it to budgetary availability. They say that you have more money for your management anyway. Man, because they haven't done anything! Because they haven't done anything! Of course they have...! In particular on lines 4 and 5 have done nothing, on line 3 a delay. It had to be a long time ago, and now it's going to be in 2017. You signed 2016 – by the way, on the initiative of this group too – as my grandmother said, because you hang by force, so as not to stay out of the picture, but you weren't even sure about that 2016, because you weren't economically involved with it. I'm telling you, you're demanding from others what... And you're telling me that you don't have to hurry and you don't have to speed up. No, if it's calm and quiet, I get it, really. Of course, calm and quiet. Look, these photos... these photos are from line 4 and line 5, which is the only way Rekalde's neighbors and Galdakao's neighbors can see the subway, here, in these photos. But these photos are from the year 2009 and 2011, which was already projected, which was talking about the informative studies that were going to be completed the following year, which was all defined! Of course it is a matter of budget availability and of where economic resources are allocated, whether they are a priority or not! But if even from the subway itself, and speaking of line 3, it was said that if more economic resources were put in place, the construction of the lines would accelerate! In this it is the same, in this it is the same: if it is budgeted for construction, there is it. And I say to you: why in ETB does this government have no glue, no glue to commit almost 500 million, almost 500 million in the next four years, and yet you have a lot of glue to commit 600 million for the construction of lines 4 and 5 of the metro? I will tell you: because for the Basque Nationalist Party ETB is a priority, and yet neither the neighbours of Bilbao nor the neighbors of Usansolo and Galdakao are a priority.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u61	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u62	And metro lines 4 and 5 are not a priority for you. And that is why they do not want to compromise, because, if not, with what is advanced, setting the timetable, setting the start times and establishing a budgetary commitment was perfectly possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u63	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u64	It is a matter of will and commitment, that you do not have it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u65	Thank you. Basque Socialists, Mr. Elola... From here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u66	Yeah. I understand Mrs Llanos in her speech and the motivation she has had to present this motion. I understand your anger. I understand that, indeed, you are very right in many of the questions you have raised, and above all in the reason why you have tabled the motion following the intervention you had last time, at the interpellation. It's true, many things are true! We are also critical with this Basque Government on this issue, in the implementation of lines 4 and 5! It has been the Socialist Party that, through its budgets, has somehow motivated the incorporation of budget lines. Not other groups. We, out of responsibility, because we believe that it is a matter of responsibility to enable the budgets, in the last three, in those items in which we have negotiated, we have entered headings for lines 4 and 5, for those studies, for those projects. Now what we are asking is that we be given a timetable to see where they are, as soon as possible, so that in the next parliamentary term the future parliament and the future government already have working materials, already have the tools to be able to run as soon as possible. We, as for the interventions or the doubts or the reflection that Mr Maneiro has made, of UPyD... It has, in some ways, put a number of keys on the table, in terms of doubts about needs and priorities. Mrs Otegi has also raised the same issue, doubts about priorities. Well, I said they both bet... , especially Mrs Otamendi's speech (I was confused earlier) spoke of benetak beharrak diren zalantzan jartzen zituen. Hombre, the last time you asked, you mentioned the night-train. You're talking about whether it's really necessary or not. Why, since you are so inquisitive, are you not going to Queens and Galdaora?" Ask her there because they feel the need. We socialists make a clean bet for the bearable transport. And, as I have said before, at Patxi López's time, when the translator was head of the Arriolas, we had a real bet, making a collection of money and running the third course, which will end in a short time. So to say, "We're betting on bearable motion" but then abstain from it. Like last time, even now. "It's necessary to investigate." Of course, but you have to do it first. And we've explained it with PNV and we'll give it a chance. So I don't know any more. We have to say that if we make a bet for the bearable mobile, it will also be profitable for the economy. The tolerable mobility is bearable in transport. And this leads us to the wager of the public transportation: patient, clean transport and safe transport too. All these things must be considered. Jüez mentioned it the other day, gave us a good study on the subject of patience, but he argued about economic matters. Me and Socialists clearly say that the economy would be a better matter if all of us in this Chamber were to favor a truly bearable mobile. Actually, not just in words. And like today and the past, we put the opportunity to get through words on the table. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ella. From Eubertist, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u68	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Llanos tells us that for the People's Party lines 4 and 5 are a priority and have always been. As I said, welcome to the car, in this case welcome to the subway, because it seems that in the eighties the subway was not a priority for you. He talks about the statements of the outlaw deputy. In the statements of the deputy general of Bizkaia, he said that until the end of line 3 – which, with the investment effort being made, is a reasonable thing – no new investments were to be made in the Bilbao metro. And logically, the realization of these lines is subject to two things: the evolution of the collection and the priorities, as has been shown here. As for the evolution of the collection and the budget availability, it was mentioned earlier by one of his party colleagues, who in particular the still president in office said: "All the works of the Basque Y are advancing at the pace that can be achieved with the money that it has". And Mrs. Ana Pastor (I also think she knows her) in December 2013 said: "Adif will bid on Bergara's knot at the same time as he has enough money." Therefore, having budget availability is nothing that has been invented either this party or anyone else. That's why I was saying that in a woman parliamentarian like you and in a party like yours, seriously, because, we were shocked, we were surprised by this statement. He talks about budget availability. Continuing to talk about budgetary resources, which we said the most buoyant situation we have here is the result of the management that has been done in this country, he says nothing has been done. I used to talk to him about what has been done in transport in this legislature: in addition to the underground of Urduliz, the parking lot of Ibarbengoa, the extension of the tram in Gasteiz, etc., more things have been done, and I will give him the example that 75% of the budget is devoted to social policies, 450 million euros to RGI and to the supplementary housing provision. He still wants to get rid of the RGI, the People's Party, to do the 4 and 5 subway lines! Say it! We have to prioritize. And we in this legislature..., and this party has a commitment to people, and it's their priority right now, not to mention other projects that we're working on. I thought... And he used to talk about electoral opportunism. Well, well, I think it is, that in this motion you see the plumber, it has a certain electoral tufil. And he'll say, "No." Man, I, knowing Mrs. Llanos, have looked into it, and I say, "Jo, it will be that Mrs. Llanos and the People's Party have been giving the baton throughout the legislature with lines 4 and 5, with oral questions, written questions, interpellations, request for information... and, of course, the legislature is running out and we have to demand a compromise, which seems reasonable to us." But that's how I didn't find it. I have only found a question, which is not yours precisely, in November 2014, where you are answered precisely what is being said here, that a great effort is being made to invest both institutions, by the Basque Government and the Chamber, committed until 2016, which is when line 3 was planned to end. And, what's more, you're told what's being done on line 5 and line 4. And it is said – the answer to your question concludes, to your group's question – that under no circumstances has the Government renounced the execution of the projects of Lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao Metropolitan Railway. So, as you can see, there is a commitment, there is a commitment from this party, which is on our electoral agenda, and we believe that they are necessary projects. But also that management which you criticize, but which seems to be valued repeatedly, requires action with responsibility, seriousness and rigour. We have therefore agreed that before the end of the parliamentary term the timetable for the completion of the work and technical studies will be presented, in order to then examine the two variables, the evolution of the collection and forecasting of the collection, and the priorities of each moment. Finally, I would like to thank UPyD, although it is not, for the support expressed in the compromise amendment between our group and the Socialist Group. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Mr. Maneiro isn't here. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u70	I'll say it from there. I wasn't going to take the word, but because of Mr. Elola's reference and Mrs. Llanos' references, I don't know if you've understood me correctly. I have said that the two projects which ought to have a perfect preference are known not to us, or that we know not what it is. Of course there is a request in the community, but in this case we are apt to doubt, and from thence their doubts are proposed. Just her own way, all right? That's why we have our abscession. And Mrs. Llanos, yes, we put her in our election program. We haven't changed our minds. We're looking at a necessary intermotal. What has been said is, that perhaps in this respect we ought to take a turn, and that in the next legislation the next Government ought to decide how to carry on these projects. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u71	Thank you, Madam Mount. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Mrs. Llanos Gómez's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 10; counters, 63; white, 0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u72	So he didn't accept it. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialist and the Euccaner. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters are 42; the opponents 10; the whites are 0,0; Abstation, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u73	So it's accepted. Third point in theme list: "Gather [as] a congregation of the congregation of the congregation, Against the defense of the rights of the refugees. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party that made the proposal is Mrs. Gold, the representative of the EH Collect group, has the intention of presenting and defending the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. At the present day, we have another proposal on the table of law. He who will deal with the political controversy about the subversion of human rights and the protection of the nation which they deserve. In like manner, this Chamber will present a treaty between the European Union and Turkey. This year more than 3500 people have died in the Mediterranean waters. Thus this sea is the largest common pit in the world, which for the past ten years has accumulated more than 25,000 dead. It is necessary to reveal the remarkable responsibility of the European Union for these deaths. For the necessity which these men feel for leaving their births has a direct relation to the economic, commercial, and military policy which the European Union has with Africa. These policies have led the African population to an endless humanitarian crisis. It cannot be forgotten that the people of Europe had the paper in the time of the settlement of Africa: The systematic plunder, the cutting down of the traditional continent structure, caused an unbalanced or arbitrary arrangement, and the previously sought economic structure of subordination. The European Union has constantly adopted a false pretext for the political and military condition of the Middle East and Africa; defending the local population. This has only increased the state of conflict, under the influence of a great number of citizens. These men are potential asylums, and they must be under the protection of the national protections signed by the States of the United States of the European Union. But Europe shuts their doors, and they see no other way of starting abroad without much hope. In almost every case, they die as a illegal immigrant drowned in those presidency exiles. In many others, countries such as Hungary, France, or Spain, with all their common simplicity, knowing that the international law is opposed to the humanitarian, are seriously wounded in the murderous barriers which build them up. The politics of the migration control of the European Union are in error, instead of based on human rights and on the end of overbalanced wrongs, they are led to prevent the entrance from the principle of security. That's against international legislation, and it's done for both gigantic security companies and arms-presences. There are currently more than 60 million refugees in the world, one third of whom are women and girls. It must be said that 80% of these refugees are outside European borders. In the face of the greatest exodus of refugees after World War II, the European Union's response, as immoral as it is, is illegal and completely criminal. Initially they had established a distribution of refugees, these famous quotas, wanting to sell the image of solidarity for pretending to host 160,000 refugees, a miserable 0.03% of their population, when we remember that since 2015 more than 1 million people have tried to cross European borders in search of their legitimate international protection. Countries such as Lebanon or Jordan are home to up to 1.5 million people, the equivalent of 20 per cent of their population. If Europe were to equal this percentage, it would have to accommodate 135 million people. And by trying to cross over a million people, they get their hands on their heads, to the point of signing a contract. Because it is not agreed, ladies and gentlemen: it is a marketing contract with Turkey. Yes, that Erdogan Turkey which is exterminating the Kurdish people, that Erdogan Turkey which is systematically violating the rights of the Kurdish people, which daily bombards the Kurdish population; yes, that which now, thanks to the European Union, has EUR 6 billion in its pocket, and with green light to camp wide and continue to violate the rights of the Kurdish people. In this established contract, they allow Turkey to resume negotiations on accession to the European Union, they also allow Turkish citizens to have a visa, in return, as I said, to take a look at human rights issues. This one-by-one agreement signed on 20 March provides that for every refugee returned to Turkey from Europe, a Syrian refugee person is relocated, only Syria, leaving aside nationalities such as Iraqis, Palestinians, Afghans, etc., being automatically returned to their places of origin, places that pose a threat to them. The mafias, of course, are rubbing their hands with these agreements, because they know that people will continue to look for alternative ways of entering Europe's borders. In addition to all this, this agreement leaves in the legal limbo more than 50,000 people who are currently lying on the Greek borders, who are in the official camps, improvised camps or detention camps, such as the Moria camp, with whose images we can remember from Auschwitz, in which, thanks to social organizations, at least, passing a glass of food through the fence, they will have something to take to the mouth in a single day. Ladies and gentlemen, a state, just one Member State could have vetoed this agreement, could have vetoed this illegal agreement, but everyone has accepted the illegality. They have all agreed to take on such an important convention as the Geneva Convention on the International Protection of Refugees, multiple international human rights conventions, and also the conventions established by the member countries of the European Union in the field of human rights. Refugees are victims on a double basis. As I said earlier, they are victims of these policies of the European Union of imperialist invasion, of expoliation of natural resources, of sale of weapons, of the mercenary NATO with its mercenary hordes against defenseless countries. And they are also victims of walls, victims of stabbing fences, victims of ill-treatment, and of the denial of their legitimate right to international protection; even of death, as we could see with the man burned in Idomeni, or this very week with children shot by Turkish security forces in refugee camps. If these countries that squander millions of euros to finance NATO wanted a solution, that would be mainly to pull out, to withdraw their troops from the invaded and occupied countries in the twenty-first century. As it could not otherwise be, of course, in this patriarchal system, women and girls are the greatest victims of these forced displacements. They suffer all kinds of sexual assaults, labor and sexual exploitation... All kinds of harassment and harassment. Most of them are families who travel in a single-maritime way, either because their partners..., or because they do not have a partner, or because their partners are in a European territory or in their places of origin, making the migratory journey a real calvary for them. Amnesty International has recently submitted a report on these human rights violations against women, collecting hundreds of testimonies in which women report the multiple violence experienced throughout their migration journey by the mafias, by the police at the border or by other fellow refugees. Also on European soil, ladies and gentlemen. Also on European soil. Women reported how they preferred to sleep, for example, on beaches like those in Croatia, before sleeping in refugee camps, because they were even afraid to go to the bathroom. There was something that was spread every day, and they were condoms, because they knew that in their multiple rapes there would be pregnancies, and at least to try to make them the least possible pregnancies. Let us also remember that 12% of refugees are pregnant women, who do not have any guarantee at any of the borders (yes, also in Europeans), no guarantee for their physical integrity and that of their daughters and children. The situation of children is exactly the same: more than 10,000 missing refugee girls and boys. Missing persons who have an absolutely terrifying fate: trafficking for sexual exploitation, trafficking in organs, child labour exploitation... Ladies and gentlemen, all this reality on European soil, all this on European soil. I am ashamed, today, and I am repugnant to be part of this European Union. It is very important to mention that all these human rights violations will have the opportunity to see them firsthand, to know them firsthand, thanks to a proposal made by Euskal Herria Bildu, which has been accepted by this House, to travel to the refugee camps in Greece. We will be there to denounce, to continue with this complaint about the massacre that is also favouring the European Union towards refugees. We must also say that we have signed a compromise amendment with the Basque Nationalist Party and with the Socialist Party, which seems to us to be significant, to the extent that it is called for..., denounces and calls for the withdrawal of this shameful and illegal agreement between the European Union and Turkey, defends the universality of the right to asylum, and also advocates the creation of a parliamentary intergroup to ensure the guarantee of the rights of migrants and refugees, regardless of legislative periods. It also recognizes the key and fundamental role of civil society and social organisations, which have proved to be above and above the institutions, and above this institution, which are teaching the other side of Europe, that solidarity, open, fighting and combative Europe. It is important to point out that our initial proposal sought greater concreteness on the part of the Basque Government in terms of its competences in the areas of health, education, and above all social services, for these refugees, but also in a matter which is fundamental, and which is in raising awareness of these people. We didn't get it to be the way we wanted it to be. We find the way in which it has been shaped very timid, because we believe that the Basque Government has to live up to the circumstances and has to take a proactive role in a situation as brutal as the one we are living in. The struggle of social organizations was fundamental, but the institutional response was also fundamental, and it was expected to rise to the standard of living. That, said in passing, those who often question the relationship between sovereignty or the right to decide with improving people's lives, we are talking about that in another scenario we would not be asking the Spanish State to move the record. We'd be us and we'd be moving, we'd be a lot of people from many different places, living together and enriching ourselves from diversity. One last thought. We have found that this European Union is irreformable, it is completely irreformable. But in the face of this criminal European Union, in the face of this European Union of financial power, in the face of this European Union which does give freedom of movement of capital but not of people, there is that European citizenship which takes the streets from internationalism to fight together with the Greek, German or French brothers in search of that Europe, demonstrating that another Europe, that Europe based on the principles of global citizenship and solidarity among peoples, is possible. Because in front of this Fascist Europe, with closed borders and stabbing fences, there is the Europe of people with hearts, minds and open arms, to live together and above all to receive all those people who are forced to come or who simply want to come. This Europe is more alive than ever. Because it is essential to remember another issue, and it is that only the people save the people. Welcome, refugees!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the department, fellow members of the legislature, good noon to all. Once again, we are debating in this House the greatest humanitarian, social, political and economic problem of today, as is the migration of millions of people from conflict areas in the Middle East and Africa to the European Union. It is the most important crisis since the creation of the Geneva Convention in 1951, which sought to provide a humanitarian solution to displaced persons and refugees on the grounds of conflict. It is a global problem that affects some 60 million people, that in the area we are in has a first reality in the countries closest to the conflict zones, such as Jordan, Lebanon, Ethiopia, Pakistan, Iran or Turkey, and that has as its second scenario Europe, as a space in which all these people hope to reach a homeland that recognizes them as citizens, with their rights and duties. Of those millions of people waiting at the door of Europe, many of them pay large sums to smugglers to transfer them, risking their lives and those of their children. The challenge for the European Union was to create secure channels for access to our territory, and to receive them in accordance with international agreements in this area. But their governments have not acted with the moral height that was expected. Some, such as the Visegrad group, formed by Eastern countries, advocate closed Europe for migrants. Others, who have received the most refugees so far, want an equitable burden-sharing. And then there are those who look elsewhere and avoid compromises, of which the government of Mariano Rajoy is the best example. It is clear that the governments of the states of the European Union have not acted according to the Kantian moral imperative that says, "Let us not do to others what we would not want them to do to us." The European Union had to deal with the problem from the point of view of those who suffered, who needed access to health, education and other social resources, respecting their origin and beliefs. However, the option of this "Europe of values" – and I say it with quotes – has been to remove pressure and agree with the Turkish Government to create a sort of permanent waiting room on its territory, in exchange, of course, for important economic amounts, which turned people into currency exchange in the transaction. The shameful convention was signed with a country that is not exactly safe in terms of respect for human rights. It is well known that in Erdogan Turkey there is a major regression in terms of public freedoms. Restrictions on freedom of the press, or the growing repression of the Kurds, are good examples of this. Turkey becomes the gendarme of the door of Europe, and for this work it is given 6 billion euros and the negotiations of accession to the European Union are resumed. But it is also that the signing of that convention was violating the right to individualized treatment that every person has to have access to refugee status. It opens the way to collective deportations. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a flagrant violation of international asylum law. This attitude has led UNHCR, as a relevant UN agency, and other specialized NGOs, to denounce the convention and refuse to cooperate. This attitude of the European Council to want to undermine the problem of access to the European Union is, in principle, a sign of the inability to deal with the refugee crisis in a timely and appropriate manner, caused by the armed conflicts in the Middle East. But it can also be the point of the idea of a politically united Europe, beyond the single market. The Schengen agreements, signed by 26 European countries, which were to apply the idea of the free movement of persons between them, are absolutely frozen. The 1990 Dublin agreements, then replaced by the so-called Dublin 2 Regulation in 2003, which sought to ensure identical conditions for access of refugees to all EU countries, were suspended in the first situation of serious emergency. This is evidence, among other things, of Europe's danger as a project for the future, and of the crisis in the international asylum system. Paying Turkey to act as a filter, to collect asylum applications and become a deterrent for those who seek to reach Europe is not going to end the problem of traffickers' mafias. The search for access will be moved to other points, to other shores of the European Mediterranean. In the face of this situation, the Government of Mariano Rajoy has had an evasive, swaying, distant, uncommitted or unfulfilled response. This PP government undertook to resettle and relocate up to 18,000 refugees. A few days ago, I had only done it with eighteen. As millions of people flee from death and barbarism, this Government is only able to fulfil a tiny part of its commitment. Spanish society has shown solidarity with the problem raised and wants to provide resources and resources so that it can benefit from the number of people involved. Many autonomous communities and municipalities, as well as non-governmental organizations, are hoping that Mr. Rajoy's Government in office will not waste its time without addressing this extremely serious issue; that it will act, that it will not hide as is its usual position. The last example of this solidarity attitude was given yesterday by the nine socialist mayors of the Basque Autonomous Community. The mayors of Irun, Eibar, Zumarraga, Pasaia, Lasarte-Oria, Ermua, Portugalete, Iruña de Oca and Moreda de Álava have sent a letter to the President of the Government in office, Mariano Rajoy, in which they ask him – and I quote in text – "to make whatever efforts are necessary and to authorize, on a permanent basis, the arrival of the number of refugees corresponding to each municipality, and to grant them the fundamental right of asylum which, as a people committed to the defence of human rights, we are obliged to give". Communication also requires that by tradition, history and democratic sense the incumbent president act with the example, and allow us to reach as many people as we are able to welcome without further delay. These socialist mayors stress the solidarity that civil society is showing, collecting clothes and other items of necessity to send to the camps where refugees are crowded. And they show how citizens are willing and eager to receive and welcome refugees. We hope that this example will take place, and that many more Basque municipalities will join the initiative. We also call on the Basque Government to act accordingly and, in addition to preparing the infrastructure and means for the reception of refugees, to work together with other autonomous communities to demand that the central Government be loyal to the commitments made and to change its passive attitude towards an active one in the search for the refugees that are ours. The Basque Government should also address the Government in office to appreciate UNHCR's request for an extension of the number of refugees to be accommodated, and express its willingness to increase our quota. As is the case in any humanitarian crisis, within the general drama there are limit situations that require preferential action, such as families with children or with disabled persons, unaccompanied minors, single mothers with children, family reunifications. These situations should be the subject of special protection measures by the institutions. As I said earlier, I firmly believe that most of our society is in solidarity with refugees, but it is no less true that in Europe for many people, as Bertolt Brecht said, waves of immigrants are omens of bad news. And from there arises fear and rejection towards those who remind us of the vulnerability of our position and the fragility of our well-being, and that is why the tendency to raise walls arises. That is why the Socialists believe that all democratic institutions must contribute with the means available to alleviate suffering. But it is also our responsibility to act so that solidarity grows, that the explosion of fraternal feelings unleashed by the photograph of Aylan Kurdi's corpse does not fade away. In this regard, we have proposed, and has been included in the compromise amendment that we are going to adopt, the immediate establishment of a parliamentary intergroup to monitor the process of those who have had to move from their countries of origin, identify their state and know their needs. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we want to make what we are expressing here today a permanent concern of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u78	Egun on again. Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. Some of us do not share the statements that have been made in this rostrum about a fascist European Union, about a criminal European Union. I do not know if all the signatories of the GNP share it, but, of course, we do not share it. We understand these claims to be absolutely unfair. Europe is giving us a lot, it has given us a lot, and it will have to give us a lot. For us Europe remains a project of the future, of democracy and of respect for human rights, and in this sense, despite the difficulties, we continue to believe in it. And we also have to say that we are convinced that Spain will take on its commitments, as it has already done, and that the President of the Government himself has recently committed himself to an appearance. Yes, Madam President, the refugee situation is not an upbuilding spectacle. We must do something, and we must do something quickly, with greater intensity and acceptance; we must improve the capacity of countries in terms of reception; we must improve Europe's ability to articulate this policy; we must also overcome the reluctance and opposition of many countries of the European Union, which are also moving towards intransigence and insolidity. Spain is not one of them. It is one of the first to join in welcoming and to articulate policies and steps within the Union, with guarantees and among all. And it is complicated and difficult to negotiate within the Union policies that give a united response to a serious situation such as this. It is complicated, it is difficult to unite the wills of twenty-eight Member States of the European Union in a crisis like this. Twenty-eight states also with socialist party governments among them. And efforts are being made, and the Government of Spain has made them in line with the declaration adopted at the Congress of Deputies on 16 March, that statement which said that "Europe is witnessing a serious humanitarian crisis motivated by the displacement of thousands of people fleeing terror, war in their countries of origin and seeking an area of protection, security, freedom and respect for human rights". It was said that this crisis "requests our joint, sensitive, supportive and responsible action. Asylum and migration policy must be a common policy within the framework of the European Union" (it is important that we all understand it, that there is no discouragement in it, that there are difficulties but that further progress needs to be made), "that it is the commitment of all the Member States" (that is complicated and difficult, but it must be articulated, it is essential), "collaboration with the countries of transit and origin, and coordination with third States". And "Spain must continue to demonstrate its willingness to contribute to the joint action of the European Union in the face of this crisis, both in the relocation and resettlement commitments and in the Union's efforts to define procedures consistent with the situation and the increase in funds for this purpose. All this within the framework of our commitment to the defence of peace and human rights and to the observance of legality as a basis for the realization of all rights." This position, which found this unanimous support recently, also found unanimous support in the Congress of Deputies in the previous legislature, when a common position of all political forces with parliamentary representation was reached in September 2015 around the refugee crisis. That is difficult, indeed, the agreement, to see how we work together, to overcome the problems, and to do so with a firm position, in this case of Spain. We understand that the Government is respecting it, and on 7 March 2016 the Heads of State and Government of the European Union adopted a declaration in which they agreed to work on the negotiation with the Turkish Government, on the basis of a number of principles. Well, from there, the Congress of Deputies itself, by a total majority, made a number of issues and demonstrations that have been followed and that have been respected by the Government of Spain in its negotiation. The "opposition to the option of any agreement with Turkey that expressly or indirectly establishes the possibility of collective expulsions to Turkish territory, or to any non-member State of the European Union" was expressed. They considered it "indispensible that the declaration or agreement expressly guarantees that any expulsion to Turkey is possible only when it is adopted after the final conclusion of the corresponding individualised asylum file with all guarantees". That "agreements on the control of the flow of refugees to Greece that are reached with Turkey contain guarantees of compliance with international law and respect for human rights, including the requirements of European asylum law" (i.e. specific issues that they also require and need to be monitored). "The said legislation requires that there be certainty that the principle of non-refoulement is respected, that persons may apply for refugee status, and, if they are refugees, receive protection under the Geneva Convention or with equivalent guarantees under domestic law." It also called for "strengthening control mechanisms over the actual fate of economic aid for refugees". A number of issues such as "studying a review of the number of refugees to be hosted by the EU in the light of the evolution of the crisis in recent months, in line with the demands of the various international non-governmental organisations"..., and in line with what many countries are willing to do. We already know that some countries are not willing to make a welcome effort, but some like Spain are. And that has been said and that has become very clear. The procedures will have to be established, but Spain has already said this, and its Government has said this: it is prepared to be a country of effective reception of the quantities of people, of the number of people considered in the negotiations in the European Union: "Promoting the establishment of additional safe routes for the arrival and resettlement of refugees, such as humanitarian visas, family reunification, scholarships, etc." It is quite clear that all this has to be done, and it has to be done, and it has to be remembered. Twenty-eight countries. We have to keep working, we have to have faith in that agreement. "Promoting within the European Union the urgent and effective establishment of protection measures for individuals at risk, especially minors without family members who take care of them or women who are victims of sexual or gender-based violence". In other words, these issues have been raised within the European Union, and these issues have been raised by the Spanish Government in office in relation to these issues. Things can be done better, there is no doubt, but we must agree on a position in that regard, in order to clear it in the future. Some believe that European policies are wrong. We don't; we consider them to be improveable. But they're agreed, they're being agreed. They will be better and we will have to make many more efforts, indeed, there is the burden of some countries that certainly prevent progress faster, but the agreement and the fact that we see the issues proportionally and with these characteristics is the way to go in this serious crisis that we have, without further problems. We're going to try to fix the problems we have, and not create any more problems. I think that's the fundamental element. A compromise amendment signed by the parliamentary groups has been tabled. We basically agree. We would ask the groups to allow us to vote separately on the second point. With regard to the denunciation of the European Union-Turkey agreement, the Government in office recently said that that agreement was there; that it could be a patch, but that in principle it was agreed and was going in one direction. That is to say, we are not in a position to denounce that agreement, but we are in a position to approve the rest of the points that come in the compromise amendment. So, if you're so kind, I beg you to let us vote separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u79	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u80	Yes, thank you, President. We agree with many of the things that have been raised by the different groups, also by the groups that have signed this transactional, and we agree with each and every point of the transactional. I think there has been a very powerful, very clear, very incisive transactional that says things to take into account, very relevant things, very important things, things that affect thousands of people, thousands of human beings. A compromise which speaks of the need to respect the existing legality and, of course, the human rights of millions of people who have to be treated well and who have to be dealt with in this great political project, which remains Europe. Beyond the fact that pessimism is certainly growing in recent times in relation to certain actions and decisions being taken from Europe, I believe that, in the future, this will change, and Europe will again be that great project that we all advocate. Obviously, we are, therefore, in agreement with each of the points. The first proposes that this Parliament should remember that refugees flee from poverty, lack of freedom, violence, wars and human rights violations, and therefore call on the European Union and its Member States to urgently respond to humanitarian problems based on international asylum law, international conventions and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Perhaps this is the most important point, the point that summarizes everything, the point that comes to say that we are talking about human beings, that we are talking about people like us, that we are talking about people who have to be well cared for, and that, moreover, international legality has to be respected, something that is not being done today. But the fundamental thing I think is the first point, which is first pointed out: we are talking about people, we are talking about... citizens not, but human beings. I wish they could be citizens of their own right as soon as possible, but we are talking about people who deserve all respect and our utmost attention and care. We also agree with the other points raised. We too show our absolute rejection and condemnation of the shameful agreement of the European Union with Turkey, which effectively violates multiple international human rights standards. We also advocate a common international and immigration policy. We express our absolute rejection of detentions in refugee camps and the closure of borders by several states of the Union. We call on the European Union to intensify its efforts to find the thousands of missing refugee children. We demand from the Government of Spain as soon as possible its commitment to host 15,000 people. We also urge the Basque Government to work with all the institutions involved so that refugees can reach Euskadi and have access to all the services and public resources that we also have at our disposal. We recognize, of course, the extraordinary work done by NGOs and civil society. And we are committed to forming a parliamentary intergroup here in defence of the rights of migrants and refugees. We have been speaking clearly on this issue for several months, I think. On 8 September we already pointed out that Spain must at least welcome the refugees who set up the European Union, and we recalled that they are coming to stay. We said that Spain must comply with the resolutions of the European Union at least. The aim is to end an unsustainable situation, because there can be no limits to the defence and protection of human rights. We were also saying in September last year that the Spaniards have, we need to know that the political refugees come to stay, and they are going to have in Spain, or they should have in Spain, all rights, except the vote. We need to be able to turn them into citizens, and not see them as people who come to abuse or come to ghettos. As early as September last year, we were joining the demonstrations in support of the refugees called by the trade unions for that weekend, and we said that the President of the Government, Rajoy, has shown that he did not have the time to look at other European leaders at that time. And we pointed out that the solution requires a management in origin as well, and a true unity, where quota sharing does not even require negotiation. It should be absolutely mandatory. We are talking about human rights issues. And we also pointed out in September 2015 that we must overcome the nationalism of nation-states that is so badly provoking the European Union and that great political project that we want to launch. We have the problem of small nationalisms, which try to break the states of the European Union, and we also have the problem of nationalism of national states, which prevent European construction. In January this year we were criticizing as an abomination and a barbarity the blockade being imposed by the European Council on the measures proposed by the European Parliament and the European Commission to deal with the refugee crisis coming to Europe fleeing the war in the Middle East. We've already been to the refugee camps. Our MEP Pagazaurtundua denounced that the island of Lesbos has become "The Games of Hunger". We said that it was an absolute atrocity what could be seen there and what was being done with refugees and detained immigrants. We denounce from the Greek island of Lesbos the atrocity that is being committed with immigrant refugees, who are being held in the Greek islands pending their expulsion to Turkey, and compare their situation with that of the protagonists of the series of novels and films of "The Games of Hunger". If anyone, in order to demand an objective right, a right recognized by international humanitarian law, has to play with life, it is that the whole system is corrupt. We've been saying all this for the past few months. We said that the situation was and remains absolutely shameful. Finally, I believe that, therefore, we have been meridianly clear on this issue. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety, some of which have been included in this compromise and some of which have not. In this whole amendment we defended a common international and immigration policy, we defended and we defended more European integration, scrupulous respect for the right to asylum, and all this has been included, but we also proposed in this amendment to overcome nationalism and the selfishness of national states, which, as I said before, seems to me to be absolutely fundamental. We defend the same in Europe as in Spain: it is better to unite than to separate, it is better to break down borders than to lift them. Small nationalism, or big nationalism as well, harms all of us. But this in particular has not been included in that transactional. And we also mentioned the anti-jihadist pact, as a way of defending refugees fleeing their countries of origin. And we proposed to increase the budgetary, material and human resources in the fight against terrorism, to better equip our police officers, to improve the integration and collaboration of the police of the member states, to improve intelligence, and to cut off all avenues of financing of terrorist groups. This is also important in order to better care for refugees and to be able to act in origin. It is not enough to care for them as they deserve, but one way or another one must act in origin, and there, of course, there are a lot of things to do. There is a need for a legal solution (i.e. compliance with international law), a dignified, comprehensive and comprehensive humanitarian solution, i.e. not plotted. It is not enough for the municipalities to make certain decisions in a piecemeal way. It is symbolically very good and we have supported it, but the solution has to be common, comprehensive, global, on the part of the European Union. And obviously there are a lot of things to do, everything to do remains to be done, but in any case, as it could not be otherwise, we share the points contained in that compromise and will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u82	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Euskadi's dream has always been Europe, union and spiritual Europe. Europe, in matters connected with democracy, freedom, and human rights. The injustices which the fugitives live in cause us to wonder, pain, and impotence. This state of things brings up our deepest ethical and democratic beliefs. That's how it started in March 15th, two months ago. And I agree with everything you say here. This statement was made, either by accident or no, three days before the European Union and the agreement signed by Turkey. In 2013, Nobel was rewarded for supporting and spreading the rights of the European Union, peace, and friendship, democracy, and human rights. As sure as the answer that Europe has given to the refugees to-day, no one thinks of proposing a new Nobel reward, and of giving them even less. We haven't seen the size of this drama on our continent since World War II. This humanitarian crisis is to be requested to answer to the authorities and governments of the several States of the European Union in an active manner and with respect to human justice and solidarity. But, alas, the answer of the Governments of the European Union and of the European States has been quite contrary: they have placed material values before the value of persons. Since our party, the Basques in general, had given rise to ideas, we had a clear engagement with Europe, and now we believe in the same project. But we must be very critical about what we see every day. We must be severe with what's going on in Europe during these past months. The situation is disgraceful to everyone, to the institutions and to the people. The identity of the European project, our desire is to retrieve the original values. We must restore human and ethical values, and give an immediate effective answer to the fugitives. The Government has already said this a couple of months ago: this is not a refugee crisis, but the injustice and shame of the treatment of refugees. And this injustice, this treatment, is the example of the value crisis that the European Union is suffering today, which puts, as I told you before, the instrumental values to the person. I believe, however, that, more than the common European institutions, more than Parliament and more than the Commission, they are above all the selfishness and materialism of the Council and the Member States, the real culprits of this shame and the treatment that is being given to refugees. I also believe that the latest proposal in the European Commission, to fine states that do not admit and cover the quota of people to whom they had committed more than a year ago, demonstrates this difference in attitude between an institution and the Member States. Throughout its history this party, and the Basque people in general, has expressed their Europeanist commitment. Therefore, in the face of this humanitarian crisis and the disappearance of the initial values that formed the foundations of the Union, on which we continue to believe, we must be critical and call for indignation, deep disgust and our anger at what is happening every day on the borders of Europe. Throughout its history, both Europe and Euskadi have experienced massive exoduses caused by wars, dictatorships, and we, too, have been undocumented throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, persecuted and refugees. They have welcomed us in many countries in Europe and Latin America or North America. And, therefore, we must give an effective response to the crisis of these refugees as soon as possible. And not simply as a return of the treatment given to us, that too, but because it is our way of conceiving life, with the human person at the center of our project. And the answer Europe is going to give will be the measuring rod of our common project based precisely on these human values. But for the moment, unfortunately, it does not seem that the solution to this immorality symbolizes the project of a Europe founded on these principles. The European Union-Turkey agreement of 18 March is not only disappointing: it is a renunciation of the values and commitments of the European Union. It is the shame of heads of state and heads of government, and it is a shame for people who still believe in a common European project. And, like the Basque Government, we call on the European Union to implement clearly the triple commitment of solidarity, responsibility and legality. Solidarity, which entails the human duty to provide urgent and prompt assistance to those in extreme need and emergency situations, fleeing from wars. Responsibility, which means that Europe must assume the defence of the human rights and dignity of all people. Legality that requires Europe to comply with international law, the Geneva Convention, the Declaration of Human Rights and its own Charter of Fundamental Rights. The Pope placed us on the island of Lesbos before the mirror; The Basque Government, the Basque institutions, have not waited for this debate or the previous one to do things to prepare for the reception of refugees. They've been preparing all this for over eight months now. But, therefore, we urge the European Union and the Member States to honour their pledge to host refugees, who create humanitarian corridors, and to enable them immediately, from respect for the people and the law, reception and asylum of these refugees. We ask, of course, that Europol redouble its efforts to clarify and rescue as soon as possible those 10,000 refugee children who, according to their forecasts, have disappeared in Europe. Before concluding, I would also like to recall here that we have done a joint work between different groups, between EH Bildu and the Socialist Group, and I would also like to thank Mr Maneiro for his support for this compromise amendment. For our part, we have no difficulty in asking the PP to vote point by point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u83	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Passing on the day of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Gold, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u84	Mme. head of the table. Mr Barrio said that they do not share that relationship that we make of the European Union called it fascist and criminal. We would've been scared if you shared it. But there is no need for you to mention this issue, when you are being complicit in this systematic human rights violation that is taking place on the southern border, in Ceuta and Melilla. Yes, thanks to the Government of the People's Party in the Spanish State, thanks to that Government, a genuine human trafficking is taking place at the borders of Ceuta and Melilla. This Parliament has also been able to hear, have been able to witness and participate first-hand in this human trafficking in Melilla, and to see how, the same as Turkey is now doing for the European Union, how Morocco does for the Spanish State that dirty work, how it does for them jailers, how it prevents them from running out of blood. Something that has also not prevented it from happening with the fifteen people killed on Tarajal beach. Fifteen people killed in a trial that has been dismissed, simply because the Spanish Government has legalized what was illegal, the hot returns, as with that famous law gag, which has allowed, now yes, what they ask for others with small mouths do not comply with it at the borders of the Spanish State, which allows people arriving on the southern border to suffer all kinds of human rights trafficking and violations. And this is in a report, in case you have any doubts and want to read it. This Parliament has collected a report which shows this which I am saying here today. These people who arrive on the southern border, who are also potential refugees because they flee from wars, misery, existing conflicts, which are potential asylum-seekers, are denied this asylum request. The Spanish Government has adopted an ad hoc law, an ad hoc regulation, in which they say that those who apply for asylum in the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla cannot move freely throughout the rest of the peninsula; therefore, of course, these people prefer to wait to be moved somewhere on the peninsula, a transfer that is, by the way, given to the CIEs, to those detention centres for foreigners who are concentration camps. There is a very important campaign by the organizations for the closure of these detention centres for foreigners, which are true concentration camps. They pass these CIEs from Ceuta or Melilla, with an expulsion order that automatically migrates them, makes them migrants, making it very difficult for social organizations to help them by applying for asylum. He spoke of the Spanish Government's kindness in the area of asylum. I would remind you once again that a single Member State, a single Member State, could have vetoed this infamous agreement between the European Union and Turkey. And speaking of the kindnesses – you who are sensitive to the Sahara – we have the case of Hassanna Aalia, who is the clearest example of the shame and ridicule that the Spanish State makes, who returns a resolution denying her asylum, accepting that this person has been tortured, accepting that if she returns to Morocco her life is in danger, but, however, she denies her asylum. This is the reality. While in a country like Germany there have been 100,000 asylum-seekers who have been granted asylum, here there are 4,000 people, who have been waiting a long time. Because there are people who have been waiting for not a month or two, not a year: up to two and three years have been waiting for asylum in the legal limbo, without any kind of protection more than that of the organizations themselves and of the autonomous governments to the extent of their political will. That's the reality that lives here. We do not have to go to the borders of Greece. We have closer realities, in the Spanish State, on the borders of Ceuta and Melilla, where what is really being committed are systematic violations of human rights, with the direct responsibility of the Government of the Spanish State of the People's Party. That is indeed what we do not want to be repeated. Let us hope that in these elections, and speaking also in terms of migrants, the Spanish State institutions will be removed from the People's Party, the formation of the People's Party which is allowing this violation of human rights and which has signed this criminal agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Mr. Unzalu... No. [[Berber]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u86	Yes, thank you, Madam President. A consultation as spokesman of the People's Parliamentary Group. We wanted to know whether from now on it will be a practice accepted by your presidency to display symbols of any kind or content in the rostrum. It's to know and prepare us too. Because, in any case, what it means is to distort the debate and introduce elements that do not provide much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u87	All right, all right. I'll tell you. I get it. It's not the first time things come. He's always left himself, and so far as he's not guilty, he's given up. Just like that. It's not time to argue with you because it's not time to discuss it. All right. Mr. Maneiro... (Suddenly.) You don't have words, Mr. Sémper. You don't have one. Mr. Sémper, you have no words. You don't have a word, you don't... Mr. Unzalu... No. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u88	Thank you, President. Well, some of the spokesmen who have spoken before have spoken of a lack of focus on the position of the Government of Spain. Well, we believe that if any government has had a high eye in all this negotiation it has been the Spanish, which has been able to form and create a joint opinion within the Congress of Deputies, and to make a flag of it in its negotiations in Brussels. I think that's the way to value it! I mean, other countries with socialist governments have not, but Spain has, and in that sense I think that is important. It is the second time that on the subject of refugees Spain manages to have a unanimous and joint position within the Congress of Deputies, and then to go with it to the negotiations of the European Union. Indeed, they are negotiations, that is what we are talking about, and we must go and negotiate. And there are times when the results aren't all the satisfying they can be, but they are paths. That is, the important thing is to continue building, to continue to meet and to continue to speak, and indeed to highlight shortcomings, shortcomings, doubts, and to continue to improve. It is an unprecedented humanitarian crisis, you have said it and recognised it, since the Second World War, and we must unite to overcome it and for the European Union to be strengthened. Mr. Aguirre, I think you can actually see problems in the position of the states, not so much... Of course not in Spain. There are other states with truly insolidary and closed positions. This is not the position of the Government of Spain. And that's what we have to try to build. It is complicated, I say again, but it is better to go through that path of agreement, of union, of activating internal elements of cohesion, as it has happened in the Congress of Deputies that I valued before, and to go, of course, to Europe. And, yes, sometimes leaving, as it is commonly said, hairs on the gurney, but you have to try to look for that... The main countries... and Spain is one of the main, that wants reception, that wants to have proactive policies, that wants to have an attitude of reception, of asylum. And that was able to agree, and I remembered, in the joint statement. And recently the President of the Government in the Congress of Deputies also mentioned this, his position on these issues. That is the fundamental question. I know that it is easy at this time to criticize the position of the European Union. Of course, it is critical, of course, because it is insufficient, clearly improveable, because we must continue to make progress in it. And, as you criticize the position of the European Union (well, criticize it..., some already denigrate it and call it criminal and fascist), as well as criticising the attitude of the Spanish Government. Some of you said you were looking somewhere else, someone who doesn't have a height of eyes, and someone I don't know... In any case, that is the way: negotiation, agreement. We are still a group (and we will be, and that is the faith we have) of twenty-eight countries that, with their differences, have to move forward on that path of defending democracy, of defending human rights, and of respecting the right to asylum, and, of course, that is where progress must be made. I do not know whether at this time, indeed, the issue will be a question of the Nobel Peace Prize, but the point is that we must continue to move where we are progressing: by agreement, by the need to unite, to talk about these issues, and to continue there. Mrs Urrea has indeed spent her time in disqualification always easy, in addition in this case diverting the issues, in relation to the People's Party. And, Mrs Urrea, as I said earlier, in the European Union it is not a question of vetoing. You attach importance to some of the countries establishing a veto, and then what are we building on this issue? For the steps that we can all take together will strengthen a common position, and to the extent that we are negotiating it, and that some countries are convinced that further steps need to be taken, it is not a question of vetoes. It's a matter of road, it's a matter of negotiation. That is our approach, and in that sense is our position, and in this sense and in this position we welcome and appreciate the complicated position of the Government of Mariano Rajoy in relation to this issue, with the ability to create a joint position in the Spanish Parliament, and to bring it and have changed the pre-eminent position in relation to the agreement with Turkey. That has been very important, and you, some of you do not recognize it. I say again, we agree with the compromise amendment basically, except for the second point, because it disqualifies in an absolutely radical way an agreement which we still understand to have been improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u89	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Maneiro mustn't speak a word. Mr. Aguire, yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u90	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Well, I'm just short-sighted enough to say a few things, because, for instance, the Golde has mentioned at one time "la retroda de las troops," de Todas las, and I agree with this, I don't want to enter into a dispute like this, but when we say it's the subject of the refugees, but when we say it's retrida de las, de todas de todas las potencias. There may be an agreement, but if we take everything in general, and not the only, one part and the other. Gero, pozten naiz ere bai, momentu batan aipatu duzu "the networks of human trafficking". Eta egia yes. And I am glad because we pointed out that I believe that in the previous debate in October, and you told us that we were hiding behind an excuse from the mafias not to intervene. No, we have to do both. We must intervene as the European Union, the Member States must intervene, but we must also attack those mafias, those networks of trafficking in persons, women, children and so on. Because 10,000 missing children are impressive. Mr. Barrio, you were asking the refugees for faith. It seems very good to me, faith and patience, but when people are dying they can't ask for much more patience and much more faith. We have to act now. And the Spanish Government has committed itself and has to fulfil that commitment, in the same way as the rest of the Member States. The Basque Government is ready to intervene now, it has an action plan that is under way. The deputies too, the municipalities too, are waiting to receive these people. And finally, my grandfather put it in the house of the Oiarterge, he placed it on the stone: "He who enters here is in his house." We say the same to the refugees, who come to the Basques, is at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u91	Thank you, Mr Aguire. After we're done arguing, we're going to vote. Yeah, if there's a problem voting on points? [[Berber]] Don't you want it? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u92	Thank you. With your permission, President, you are becoming a regular practice to prevent that, when...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u93	Yeah, but it's group power...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u94	Excuse me, excuse me... That when compromise amendments are also numbered, that is, there may be a normal vote, it is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u95	But if a group doesn't want to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u96	It's a parliamentary boycott. Madam President, we will vote in favour of the whole text, but we disagree with the second point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u97	Bear wave, which is recorded in the record. We'll vote for the EH in general, the Basque Socialists and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u98	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Forth point on the theme list: "As the Socialists made the legislatures, the other proposition, the Nautics of Portugal, and the Makinia of the High School of Technicus, and the degree of the Master in English. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Jon Azkue, your word is to introduce the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u99	Egun on, President Andrea. Sailburuak, legebiltzarkideok. Well, one clarification: I'm a sailor, my father was a sailor, my son is also a sailor. Egun where we're supposed to be. The Socialists present to us another proposition, which is directly connected with what we all defend at present; defending a useful future to young men who are trained to work in preparation. We are willing to defend any other thing, with which we all agree, at least we should not hesitate to agree; that our university has to work hard with the firm, because it is necessary to create a relationship between the company and the university. In the countries of the North this is common, but not Euskakid. We also come to explain that there is no greater value for a student than obtaining a great education when choosing a career at the university, and to facilitate that great education is an obligation for society and for critical citizenship that with its taxes makes it possible, in our case, that we have the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea. Making a good university, a centre of knowledge, is also an obligation that in this case we also have the whole of society; an obligation to which especially those responsible who govern the public university we have given ourselves must answer, making our university an open university for young people and teachers, open, internationalizing it, how not. In any case, we will also agree that it is necessary for the university to constantly assess the needs of its careers, in order to respond adequately to phenomena that have come to stay and that we must face, such as globalization. In short, we will also agree on the need for our university to be an efficient university. This is what I come today to propose to you: that we do a good job, so that part of our university is responsible for the studies that are taught, so that, being efficient, it comes closer to a better knowledge so that it fulfills its objective of bringing students closer to the application of their knowledge in the real world, in a job, so that that part of our university is internationalized, prestige also to the whole system, so that students of other nationalities can follow their studies in Basque, so that in this case we can make those who in their day were the best in our history (our sailors, the Basque sailors) again occupy that place in the world, because our university makes them better. The Ecole Superior de Nautica y Machineas Navales de Portugalete imparts the degrees of Marina y Nautica y Transporte Marítimo, together with the university master's degree in Marine Engineering and the university master's degree in Marine Engineering and Maritime Transporte Marítimo. But the high level of education of this school cannot be left alone in the teaching of these subjects; it must also be in the full domain of the language in which future professionals will have to carry out their activity, which in an inexorable way will be the English language. I repeat an initial idea: it is absolutely necessary for the university to be close to the professional world of students who choose their studies. The exits linked to the professional world of the students, our boys and girls from Nautica, have in English their central axis. The English language is the authentic French language in all the various activities of trade and maritime transport, including maritime safety standards, the protection of the marine environment, the fight against marine pollution (particularly that produced from ships), the rescue of ships and rescue of crews, the control of maritime traffic, the port activity (practice), the design of the construction of ships, their equipment, the auxiliary maritime industry, maritime insurance, the classification of ships and many other elements that make possible the carriage by sea of goods and their services. There are many historical, institutional and traditional reasons why the English language has such a prominent role. The English institutions have been in charge of the above-mentioned issues and the problems that arise in putting them into operation since centuries ago, and have produced abundant legislation that in many cases has been structured into dozens of international conventions without which navigation and maritime transport cannot be conceived today. This has always been recognized, and is required by the 1978 International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Guard, which was transferred in Spain to the BOE on 7 November 1984, known as the STCW 1978. Depending on this agreement is the mandatory training code, for the most part, with recommendations for the further implementation of the provisions of the STCW. The provisions of this convention make knowledge of English compulsory up to the levels detailed in the above-mentioned code. In other words, no one can obtain any title of bridge officer or captain, as well as of machine officer and machine chief, without forgetting the radio officers, without having exceeded the specified levels of English knowledge. In other words, knowledge of the English language cannot have an optional character for those who aspire to have a merchant navy title, but must be compulsory, an issue that should not require much justification. Remember that, according to the provisions in force, the university provides teaching and issues academic degrees, has the discretion granted to it by the provisions of university education, but no one can embark and exercise with an academic degree. Academic qualifications are not sufficient to exercise on board, as they lack essential and exercise-specific content on ships. Professional qualifications are required to exercise on board. Students in possession of academic degrees exchange them through a procedure for professional degrees issued by the General Directorate of the Merchant Navy, under the Ministry of Development. And the Directorate General of the Merchant Navy cannot issue professional degrees to students who have obtained their academic degree without studying the English language, as we said before. That is, that a student who wishes to be captain or officer of the merchant navy, and at his university is allowed to finish his studies without exceeding the English content, will never (should not) receive his or her professional degree. He will therefore not be able to exercise on board, and he will have lost his years of study. These considerations are greatly expanded if we move to professional practice on board. Once you get out of the local area, everything happens in English: radio, telephone, computer, operation of equipment, instructions on loading and unloading, security, rescue cases, repairs, judicial matters, so important today... Whatever you're imagining. The relationships on board between mixed crews, which are, even in our freezer tuna vessels... That is, everything, everything happens in English, and the interlocutor hopes that he will be understood, discussed and made important, and not so important, agreements, but everything in English. That is, sea professionals must be fluent in speaking and understanding English. They will understand that the same should apply when writing it, but I believe that there is no need to detail and justify, among other reasons for not extending these comments. It is recognized, and there is no one to discuss it, that the level of English that is achieved by exceeding the levels set in the STCW, in most students, is not enough to equip students with the demanding commitments they have in their real life in English. That is, considering the language as one more subject (so many hours a week, so many credits) gives knowledge of English, no doubt, but on board, in real life, much more is required. Thus it has been recognized in the nautical teachings of European countries, that we so like to compare with them, and that the students there do access the university knowing English, having had in their basic English studies. These countries require all subjects to be taught in English in at least the last two courses. It would be a remarkable step forward, as we call for through this non-legislative proposal, if all the subjects of the maritime training courses for captains, machine chiefs and officers of both departments (machines and bridges) were to be in English, using publications and other materials in the English language. Another chapter would be strengthening and, therefore, training in English for teachers who need it, and encouraging teachers to teach in English. The professional world of sailors is directly linked to the English language, both in the ships and in the shipping companies (signatories, shipyards, Petronor...). Let us make the School of Nautics of Portugalete an international reference school in Europe and a clear reference for students studying in it to be referents in the world of maritime work. The Basque students who enroll in Nautica have already developed their knowledge in both languages, and English guarantees them their professional departure, making us again world leaders, as we were in their day. That the course of Nautica in its degrees and masters is taught in English will allow students to access knowledge of renowned teachers from all over the world, making it also normal that the students of Nautica from other countries can perform what is not given today, and is that their Erasmus program will make them known and enrich Portugalete, Bizkaia, the Margen Izquierda and Basquedi. They should therefore approve this initiative. I am not going to refer to the agreement we have seen more than in my second speech, because I want to listen to you. Because it is undeniable that we cannot say no to what we propose. It is going against history, but above all it is going against our own young people. It's going in that treatment we have to do, and it's... "Pertsonak helburu", not "Ideology helburu"! And our people, the people who are going to study Nautica, really require that what they receive academically is done in English. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u100	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. The representative of the Popula Party, Mr. Oyhal, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Group shares the initiative put forward by the Socialists, the sense of their initiative, because we also consider it courageous and ambitious. And I think we need to talk here about what is happening, about the challenges we have in the future, and how important it is that we take measures today to be able to meet those challenges in the coming years. We too, of course, want an open university. And we are convinced that it is impossible to open that university without taking measures such as those that today, for example, are proposed in a concrete way for the Technical School of Nautics and Naval Machines of Portugalete. I think it puts us before a fundamental debate: the way and the speed with which we want to face, from our education system and also from the university, the English bet, the challenge of English in the coming years. Of course, as the same proponent has just explained to us in detail, English will be the working language in which future nautical professionals will develop their activity. That will be their reality, the reality they will have to face: the free language of navigation and maritime transport. English as a subject, of course, seems to us to be insufficient. English is insufficient as a subject. We believe that we have to go much further, and we have a chance, we have a great challenge to solve, but I think it also represents an opportunity for that School Superior of Portugalete. We believe that, as pointed out here in the intervention of the proposing group, it may be an opportunity to turn that High School of Nautical and Maritime Techniques into an international reference. But, of course, for that to happen, it requires action today. We cannot speak of the fact that we want a degree and a postgraduate degree fully taught in English in the 2022/2023 course if we no longer take action today, because clearly that will limit the possibility, the options to be able to study these studies to thousands and thousands of Basque students. Indeed, we want them not to have that limitation, and for that we are calling for measures from now on. I think we have years ahead, and that, being ambitious the initiative, it is an initiative that puts us in front of the mirror of what the educational system has to do. It would, of course, require a clear bet on trilingualism, in order to effectively avoid limiting the access of many students outside the education system to the options of those who, because of their income capacity, their families will enable them to learn English outside of school. Then we cannot condemn those who do not have the capacity to study and learn English outside of school, limiting their options for the future. I believe that the need for the university to actually open up, to have reference centres in English, especially because we may be thinking that any measure in this direction limits access, but, of course, we do not realize that, in fact, we do not bet on measures such as the one proposed by the Socialist Group today, what is limiting are the options, the professional exits of all those who decide to take these studies. We will absolutely limit your options, your opportunities for the future and your professional outings. I believe that the transaction makes it clear that PNV and Bildu are refractory to English. Nationalism is proving in recent years that it is refractory to English. It's just that they can't stand to talk about trilingualism, they can't stand to talk about future bets in the educational system that have to do with the linguistic issues and the bets that are making today our entire environment, our entire environment. We're staying behind, and in view of what's signed today, we're going to stay behind. Because this is already exponential. I mean, we've been talking about this for ten years, but it's just that in the next five, it's going to go a lot further. Our environment is already going to advance a lot more! We are going to fall asleep, while nationalism, refractory to English, is going to put us in line and will limit the opportunities of many very young people who are today within our educational system and who in the coming years are going to access a university that limits their opportunities. Because, indeed, many of the university degrees of the future, without English, will serve no purpose. They'll be wet paper, they won't do any good. And, sincerely, we believe that responsibility must also be placed on those who, having the opportunity to take action in time, did not want to do so. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u102	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u103	Yes, thank you, President. I'm not a sailor or a sailor, but I have a mariner background and my paternal grandfather also died at sea. Perhaps that is why I am voting in favour of the original initiative, beyond the fact that in our whole amendment we have tried, let us say, to extend the subject a little. I also recognise that this whole amendment tabled by UPyD should perhaps have been additional, because it is not at all contradictory to what the Socialist Group has proposed to us. Almost 6 % of the credits provided in the UPV grades, according to 2013 data, are provided in English. In other words, students of the UPV can study more than two hundred subjects in English. And almost 14% of teachers are accredited to give subjects in some foreign language. As in other educational areas, we certainly have a certain advantage over the rest of the autonomous communities. However, it is necessary to make further progress in the implementation of English as a vehicle language in those educational subjects where English is the main or priority language. Globalization, especially economic and technological globalization, has placed English as the preferred language and we could almost say universal for the development of entrepreneurship or for the development of certain activities. The expansion of commercial activities has made knowledge of several languages essential, English being the preferred language, which has clearly been imposed on the rest of the languages. This has been coupled with another phenomenon in which no doubt English is also the king language, and it is the development of the Internet, which has been consolidated as a tool of business, communication, and as a source of information and knowledge. If we take into account that 80% of the information circulating on the network is in English, this only reinforces the need for knowledge and mastery of this language, which also leads the technological field and that of scientific development. From engineering, through information technologies, administration, marketing, communication, tourism, public relations, international trade, finance and even science, all these subjects need knowledge and skills in English for the effective development of the activity. And life itself will require us to know more and more English to ourselves and to our descendants, whether sailors or not. We fully agree that subjects should be taught in full in English; in fact, we believe that this is desirable and necessary. We have tabled an amendment to carry out the analysis for the subsequent deployment of English as a vehicle language in this and other subjects whose professional practice is carried out in full or in majority in English. We believe that ensuring a true knowledge of the English language that allows the correct development of the activity is absolutely necessary in order to make our students competitive in seeking a job and also in developing it, and this is a priority issue in a context like this, in which the search for employment is increasingly difficult. Certainly, the Socialist Group's initiative concerns the curricula of the degrees and master's degrees of the High School of Nautics, and Mr Azkue has, I believe, put forward strong arguments so as not to be able to reject at all the initiative he has put forward. It is limited to this of what I have spoken about, but we have wanted, let us say, to broaden the thematic range, so to speak, to observe beyond what he proposed. But, in any case, what the Socialist Group is proposing we agree with, and we will vote in favour. We would also be prepared to vote in favour of the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party, which I think is also interesting. What we proposed was to urge the Department of Education to carry out a detailed analysis and then a plan to progressively integrate the English language as a vehicle language into the curricula of the degrees and master's degrees taught in the Basque Country whose related profession is fully or mostly developed in English. I believe that this objective, at least in the medium term, is an ambitious one, and I think that we should already think about it. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u104	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Aguirre, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u105	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu anderea. Eta saiatuko naiz Azkue jaunari was a zein zein of a position eta pixka bat zergatik sinatu dugun erdibideko hori. Ez naiz sartuko with Mr Oyarzabal, who today has come with the usual mantra, that we do not want English, although I told him last time that was not so, but good. The Socialist Party, Mr. Azkue, the Nautics of Portugal, and the ship of Makinia in the High School, as well as the other proposal of giving in English the degrees and Masterra, introduced, as you know, the full correction of EH Collector, which did not agree with the person who planned it. There are two primary reasons. One, we don't agree with the diagnosis you make, and two, we don't agree with your proposal. Diagnosiari dagokionez –gar bertan ere esan duzu –, bi premesarekin ez cataz bat: "The students enrolled in Nautica have already developed their knowledge in the two official languages, Basque and Spanish". Hori zurre read bestekoan argi eta garbi azaltzen da. Eta beste alde battik: "The exits linked to the professional world of the students of Nautica have in English their central axis". With these two references, we don't agree with these two assertions. What is the basis of Mr. Azkue when he says that the students of Nautica have developed their knowledge in official languages? What's it based on? We'd like to know that too. After all, Mr. Azkue is saying they don't have to develop competition in the eucalypian and youth, that's what you're saying. Besides, it is in contradiction, I think, from the point of view of languages, coming to the point you plan. It is in contradiction, moreover, that you have here the letter of Eryna and Isabel Claá, Mr. Ares, who also signed it by Mrs. Mountain, with the decree which the Social Party himself issued in 2012: Decreto 47/2012, de 3 de abril, de regnocimito de los studios oficiales elicias ees eas coes eescición de la acredciition conílos y cerificio y cerificitateslingüsticas eucas. Though we should not entirely agree with this decree, Mr. Azkue, the students of Nautica would not be able to gain the rank which they are acknowledged to be in it: C1 of the European frame. In English, yes, and not in eucalyptic and youthful. On the other hand, it places English as its central axis. They're Noutics students, Mr. Azkue, not English Philology. To say that one of the Axes ought to be English is one thing, and that it must be one thing or another of the axis. Seeing this, the Basque People gathered made an integer correction. In this full correction, among other things, we said: that they must succeed in English competition, yes, Mr. Oyharland, but also in eucaine and youth. In fact, this is what we think the harpsichord is. Mr. Azkue, from our point of view, has forgotten the purpose, and without being clear, it is impossible to make serious planning. For the moment, C1 of the European frame of languages is acknowledged to be C1, if the student has done more than 50 percent of studies. Eskema honetan oinarrituta, C1 da hortaz ingelesean lortu beharko litzatekeena, horrela ulertzen dut, esz du hitz egiten helburuez Azkue jaunak. Gure ikuspuntutik definitu behar dugun lehenengo elementua. I'm looking at the wild-eyed zebras of Ekarpenean. Zer gives thatten duzunean: "Knowledge yes... , the most important thing is English..., English contents..., they have to speak fluently in English..., well, write... would also speak, but above all speak in English ". Orduan, let's clarify what level of English these students have to get. That is the first question that you, Mr Azkue, do not raise. When the end is fixed, how did the end come to pass? how we attain these ends. Mr. Azkue plans to give 100% in English, all in English. It's true that you sent a half-way proposal in the afternoon that you modulated it, and you went over to 50% on the last two courses. And what you're saying is that in these two courses, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like... you know, you know, you know, like... you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like... But it's not clear what you want. It is true that you have modulated it, and that you have lowered the English presence a little, yet it remains surprising for us. Fifty percent of the Basque decree is enough to confess C1 and back to English by 100 percent. I don't know what data, I told you in what experience you're based on to tell me. "Pero lo que sí esta claro es ad bilia distinas varas de medicor." On account of this, we asked EH Collect to make a plan, for two reasons: one, the university is the one who knows the situation best, and on the other hand, we've wanted to respect the autonomy of the university. It is necessary for the university itself to determine how the end will succeed, what resources it has at this moment, and what more means it should be provided for in the future, in order to establish the future, in order to establish its ends. Hence, Mr. Azkue, the presence of which is to be seen, both young and English, when it will begin and when it will be evaluated. For this reason we have signed a middle term with the Jeltzaan Party. Because after your speech, even though I look strange – you and Mrs. Celaá – the truth is that it gives me the impression that you don't know what you want. No, no, no, no! Because you initially raise 100%, then you lower 50%, then you talk about knowledge, yes, about content... What are we talking about? Let's see, the C1... Let's agree on the agreements! What are we..., C1, or C2? No, no, no! "Whatever you want" no, because there's a difference between C1 and C2!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u106	Please. Mrs. Celaa, it's not your tour, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u107	I mean, if we don't know what we have to get, it's no wonder that you, Mr. Azkue, are tumbling! Now 100%, now 50%, and if it can be 50% and a little more... That's what we need to clarify. Therefore, what we propose, and that is why we have agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party, is that it is the university itself, the one that best knows the situation, that is, the school of Portugalete, that it is itself that makes the plan and incorporates it into its own plan. That is what we are proposing. But those issues are preliminary. That's what we need to talk about, that's what we need to clarify. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u108	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Eubertarians, Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief, good morning to all. I think I have to start my intervention by saying it loud and loud, that the Board of Education in this case is not to be met when the Socialist Basque Group asks for it. The Socialist Basque Group has brought a plan here today, also as a demand addressed to the Board of Education, with an account that has come with UPV/EHU. But look, the Organic Law of Universities 6/2001, of 21 December, in its article 2 on university autonomy, says in its point number 1: "The Universities are endowed with legal personality and perform their functions in a system of autonomy and coordination between them all". 2: "Under the terms of this Law, the autonomy of universities includes: (...) the preparation and approval of curricula and research and of specific lifelong learning lessons; (...) the selection, training and promotion of teaching and research staff, administration and services, as well as the determination of the conditions under which they are to carry out their activities". 3: "The activity of the University, as well as its autonomy, is based on the principle of academic freedom, which is manifested in the freedoms of chair, research and study". And 5: "(...) It is up to each Autonomous Community to coordinate the universities within its competence". With this other legal proposal, the Basque Socialists have ESC: they leave the measure to be given to the relations of this Chamber of OmniV/EHU. We believe that the governing bodies of the UPV/EHU would respond very kindly in this case to the instance made by the Socialist Party, if the forms had been different, and not through a PNL demanding in this case not to the university, but to the department... They could answer something like that, because they are willing to clarify how many questions we ask them, that they would very much appreciate our suggestions, the contributions, because the contributions generate a lot of value, and that they are sure that the university itself, sure that the UPV itself will be able to manage and incorporate them into its internal debates in order to be able to improve its processes. That would be the reasonable answer if the forms had been different and if the Socialist Party had addressed the university directly, to find out what are the reasons or reasons why the teachings the Socialist Party is asking for to be taught in English in the way they are taught. But in this case the non-law proposal includes a requirement, as I have said, not to the university, which is not a receipt either, and to the Department of Education, which, although it may be a receipt, is not within its competence. And its adoption today in this plenary would put in a bad place all the debates and pronouncements that we have been doing both in Parliament and in the department itself for many years now, in order to preserve the necessary autonomy of the university from political debate, more so as regards its internal organisation and specific subjects, in this case teachers. We do not mean to say that we cannot discuss or dispute about how we can improve UPV/EU, but how the degree or course of the university seems to be left out of place by the law of organic nature. He said that we do not say that we cannot talk about how we can improve the UPV, but the demands on how they organize their degrees in order to fulfil, yes, the vocation that this Parliament has conferred on it by organic law, seem to be out of place in this case. The Department of Education, of course, can, and does, work together with the university to develop joint plans, such as the university plan, etc., and we can request that the substance of the issue that the Socialist Group brings to the debate today be incorporated into its own approaches. We believe that this Chamber is out of logic to demand or to say what course it is to be taught, whether it be depende or degree or degree, in foreign language. Much healthier, as I said before, would be to ask the university itself for information; to really explain to us what the objectives are, why certain degrees incorporate some subjects in English and others not, whether it is for operational or pedagogical reasons, or for a reason that may also be budgetary. You propose that one hundred per cent teaching in English be done in the studies of Nautica in this case. And why not extend it to other races? Because, indeed, as you have said well in your speech, we live in a globalized world, and perhaps it should be asked that in the rest of the grades, or in certain degrees or even postgraduate degrees, it can also be taught in English 100 percent, right? In your GNP you have made reference not only to what needs to be done, but also to the years when it needs to be implemented: in course 2022/2023 in the no initial law proposal, and yesterday you advanced the deadline in the compromise proposal that happened to us. The Socialist Party believes that it has ignored any university planning, and requires, through the Department of Education, its compliance. For us that, Mr. Azkue, is not a receipt. The university must be asked, not the Department of Education, which is not competent in this area. Another example we believe of the ignorance reflected in this GNP refers to the law that dictates that the trunk part of the official grades should be taught in the official languages, Basque and Spanish. And you have included along with the masters also the official degrees. Look, for master's or postgraduates it is not necessary to have professional accreditation by teachers, but for degrees, instead, yes. In the nautical there is only one professor accredited at the moment, and indeed there are subjects taught in English, but not in the full degree. And one of the reasons it's not given is because the law doesn't allow it. But it is that outside this debate is the reality, from which you or your group have strayed, I want to understand that unintentionally. The university is autonomous when designing the degrees, and this autonomy is also related to the betting of teaching subjects in English. I repeat, therefore, it has no effect in this case to urge the department, since it is not directly competent in this matter and therefore cannot guarantee that this measure will be carried out. There is a university plan agreed with the university itself, between the Government and the university, which collects actions for the promotion of teaching in other non-official languages, including, of course, the English language. UPV, the university, is autonomous to devote these funds to different centers and in different degrees. The Department of Education – I also say this for the second point of the amendment by the People's Group – is not a university teacher recruitment body. In addition to the fact that accreditation for teaching in non-official languages is not a requirement, but a voluntary merit. Therefore, you cannot ensure that the number of accredited teachers is increased. By law – I repeat – we must offer the degrees in their trunk and mandatory part in both official languages. Therefore, teaching exclusively in English is not an option with the existing legislation, let alone mark the time of the university itself. The defence of university autonomy, the existence of a plurilingualism plan in the university itself, to which we must attend, of course, and the university plan agreed between the Government and the university, which includes specific items for teaching in non-official languages, should be more than sufficient grounds for the Socialist Party's interest to become not a proposal for law urging the department, but a consultation with the university itself, to which it directs its contributions, and not a requirement, as they do through the GNP in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u110	Thank you, Miss Corles. Passing on the answers, Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u111	When I saw Xabier, I thought I ought to talk to him one day about what relation it might be to the Basque and the Englishman. We're talking on the coast and I'll talk about it. It has missed me, really, it has missed me a question, and it is how a political initiative is recriminated or discussed with the bureaucracy, with the bureaucratic, with the existing. There is law, and here, precisely in this House, is where it is decided to change them, to do them or whatever. You missed me. And then, remind me of university autonomy... I have studied at the School of Sailing in Portugalete, and before coming here to this House I have been alone with the Maritime Forum, I have been alone with the associations of captains and drivers, I have been with the teachers themselves of the School of Sailing in Portugalete. I have been casually, because normally the initiatives we put forward by the Socialists are based on soil, they have to have soil. Otherwise, we'd be in the air, wouldn't we? And that is what we have done: to move precisely what we have spoken. And to Leire I'm going to tell him what the deputy director of the School of Nautics told me for the first time, and it was: "It's that the law prevents us, because in the law it says that in the school we can only give Spanish and Basque." Well, we've changed the law, because you're in front of a congressman who'll pose where he belongs, Legebiltzar honetan. Look, what a chance to give people real opportunity and not keep not doing it, I don't know why. Juanjo, really, you should discuss... It has beside Iker Casanova and Leire himself, to whom we complain in the presentation of the Left Margen that, listen, look, Basque Country, Basque Industry 4.0, Open Future... I mean, so that we can also be given here something that is..., that we're going to need by the nose, and it's those English classes, so that we can really translate exclusively the programs that our governments, whether outside or from Lakua, do for the citizens, and then we have to translate them. That is the reality of society. We don't give him many laps, because the internet doesn't cut, and suddenly he comes out and acts, and our kids and our kids have been acting in English since that age. And our obligation as politicians is to put us right there and not back, and say, what comes to us, what we're going to do. Reminds me of the one who many years ago, in a trade union discussion, told me, when I explained to him that maritime transport was globalized, told me: "Don't worry, that opinion is right. We will stop globalization!". They won't stop English, no one. So, if we want to build a Basque society, let's give the opportunity, first of all, to that English that our boys and girls are going to need. Moreover, in a society in which you and I, too, demand that the jobs we are going to occupy will be much more linked to technological modernity and to the reality of a different, different, technological, advanced industry, etc. And that means thinking in English, and internationalizing our university is another obligation we have. But I do not want to go too far into a superglobal discussion, because I want to limit myself again to what I have come to present, without any encouragement, Juanjo, without any encouragement to compare what intentions. I've made two versions. One more I have explained; it is that of the Scandinavian countries, which, unlike us, it is true that they arrive at the university knowing English, but, despite that, their first two years of career teach them in the language of that country (that was yesterday's, the proposal I made to them yesterday), and the last two years, when they are already close to the professional exit, they do them in English, exclusively in English. And there goes our kids! And Mr. Oyarzabal said so. Of course, the children we can send the children are going. Because my son yes, I recognize him in front of you, he did the last six months of his career in Haugesund, Norway, and he speaks perfectly Basque, perfectly Spanish and perfectly English. But it's the opportunity, because your father's middle-class and he can do it. Not others. Let us not take away that opportunity, in the nautical, to those who cannot do as I do! Let us also give that opportunity, because, if not, we are discriminating. But I'm done. Let's not put up walls. I have said and wanted to say nautical because no one can deny what our children's exits are when they adopt the Nautical race. But that's not going to be the only race: it's all going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u112	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Mr Oyhale from there?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u113	Indeed, we maintain our position. I would like to announce that we will vote in favour of the Socialist proposal, because the compromise reached by the nationalist groups, which means leaving things as they are and doing nothing, seems to us to be very inadequate. I think that here we need to send inputs to the university, and that the university knows that it has to face the English bet in a much more determined way, and I think it's something it's not doing in time. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u114	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mr. Maneiro isn't here. From EHG, Mr. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u115	Thank you, ma'am. Short time, Mr. Azkue. Two questions, two or three questions, because at first it seemed to me that you have tried to copy the speech of the People's Party, saying that what we want is to stop English. It's not like that, it's not true. What I've said is that you actually take me miles on this nautical thing and on this sea thing, I recognize it. Only, what we have told you and what I have told you in my first part, lehenengo zatian esan disudana da guk ingelesa bayetz nahi dugula. That is to say, the students must end their Nautica by learning English. What I want to know is... for I do not know, nor have you defined, that is, what degree of English must they be when this is done? Well, well, Mrs. Celaá, no! What degree of English? Let's just get on with it. For that, I think that experts may say what degree of English it is to be. It is, then, what we plan; C1 in English grade, is that enough? From our point of view, yes. Why? You guys, the Socialist Party, when he was in the government, ended up at the C1st school and that's all I meant to say. And then what we mean is... But, klaro, you insisted that C1 will be admitted to a student if he's over 50 percent in his studies. I'd like to think it would be a decision of the funding. So, if that's the case, can you say that in English C1 they can get it with 50%? I mean, there may be different planning here. Then what I mean is that the experts should fix the degree of English that they have to do with me. And I mean, not only in English, but also in euscan, that they ought to have attained the same degree as you have confessed, C1. That's exactly what I mean in the first intervention. And the second part, how do you do that? How do you do that? We believe that the best things we can do are from the country, from Portugal. I'm doing a few reconnaissances too. So that's what we say in the middle of the line, that they may be ends, means... See how we can get these goals. And the third one, what resources we need, because Mrs. Corries said there's only one teacher right now. That's where we're going to have to make a schedule to go and supply me with teachers who know English, isn't it? "Vamos, digo yo!" Otherwise, it won't be possible to move on. That's exactly what I meant, and that's the essence of the middle line we've signed with the Jestric Party. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u116	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Finally, Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u117	Thank you, Mrs. President. Again. Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalea has always been a trilingualist, as well as other groups in this House. For many years we have defended and will continue to defend trilingualism. Another thing is that, in addition to that defense, we defend the university's right to organize. Two things, two defenses totally compatible between them. The end of the proposal we can comment on, of course, but come to this parliamentary seat with a demand, asking the department (not the university), perverting above the basic consensus of university autonomy, because it does not seem to us to receive, Mr Azkue, and from there we will not get our group out. Let us therefore ask the university itself, as I have said. Accept that offer I made you in my previous speech. Let us ask him what the reasons are, or how that situation can be saved. And of course it seems great and perfect to me that you have investigated, as you have told us here in this rostrum, and we do not doubt that you have done so, but then why does it pose it as a requirement? Why do you want to skip that university autonomy that is marked by law? He has also said that, if the laws are to be missed, you will come and propose that amendment of the laws. So far we have not seen that you have done so, but I believe that with the current laws in force we cannot do what you propose. We do not deny the need for English, of course not. In this House we have been taking steps towards multilingualism for many years. But, I repeat again, your proposal is totally in conflict with university autonomy. The university is tremendously accessible, I repeat to you, to receive consultations from this Parliament, from each of these parliamentary groups. Therefore, you receive as positive that offer, and let us address the university, not requiring the department to do things that it cannot do because they are out of its competence. And we defend, of course, I repeat once and a thousand times, with the same vehemence that you have defended here today, trilingualism. Do not be mistaken and do not want to distort the position of this group. We obviously live in a globalized world, and we understand what the reasons for their non-law proposition may be. The degrees given in Nautica include subjects in English, but perhaps it should be the Nautical School of Engineers or the university itself who should mark the times as to what plurilingualism should be, see also how the students themselves enter the university, with what language training they enter the university, the need to have to adapt the teacher to this trend of students competent in three languages... I have not mentioned before – but I am going to do so now – in my previous speech. I want to do this now because I think it is important to remember some of the words of your colleague Celaá when she was a counselor, even when she was in the opposition itself. Isabel Celaá, through the El País article of March 7, 2004, entitled "Where do they lead to UPV?", he said: "... the University must be respected, in the way of the Platonic Academy, as a space-place with foreign logic and independent of political control." Mr. Azkue, if we approve your initial GNP, does the UPV become a space-place independent of political control? On May 14, 2009, Mrs. Celaá, as a counselor, also released in this case, said and picked up the EFE agency: "Celaá and the Rector undertake to work with 'inter-institutional loyalty'. Celaá has stressed that its Department 'believes firmly in the autonomy that the University has', and has advocated working from 'loyalty' to address 'high-quality inter-agency relations'." I ask you, Mr Azkue: would the loyalty cited by Mrs Celaá and those high-quality interinstitutional relations improve with this GNP that you wanted to adopt today in this Parliament? We believe, we have the perception that the good will to improve that it is certainly behind that initiative, that proposal not of its law, apart from failing to comply with the laws, clashes with the organizational and autonomous disposition of the university itself, which, to a large extent, and by organic law, is different from primary education or secondary education. But it is that, still, look, I have taken another of the phrases from the in this case ex-counsel Celaá, who with this proposal also throws you off the edge. "The objective is," said Mrs Celaá, "to move towards this trilingualism of free accession where the centres, depending on their human resources, the socio-linguistic area and their projects, modulate the proportions of one language and another." We think it is perfect, since before and after Mrs. Celaá's passage through the department we also work for the autonomy of the centers...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u118	You go to the end, Mrs. Corries.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u119	It's not something that promotes a political party and when there's a change of government, it's another different party. In Euskadi, there has always been advocacy for the autonomy of schools in education, and through organic law in the case of universities. I encourage you, therefore, in this case...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u120	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u121	... Mr Azkue, the Socialist Party, correct your position and support our amendment, because we advocate that it be analysed, within the university's own multilingualism plan, its language skills and the acquisition of those language skills that we say in our amendment. And let's see what they are, so...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u122	Thank you, Miss Corles.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u123	... among all, those options for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u124	End of discussion... (Retrusively.) Yes? To pussy? But the hallucinations weren't aggressive and unexcited, they were literal, Mrs. Celá, they were literal. There's no such thing as pussy. They're literal, literal phrases, what you said. They weren't aggressive or unexcited. We're going to vote for the original text of another proposal like the Basque Socialists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 26; contraries, 48; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u125	Not accepted. Next up, the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 11. The opposites, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u126	Not accepted. Next up is the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The opposites, 63; white, 0; abstain, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u127	So he didn't accept it. And, finally, we vote for EH and the Eubertarian contractors who signed it. You can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrary, 26; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u128	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. When I get here, I interrupt the entire meeting until 15:30 p.m. It was two and seven in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-one o'clock the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u129	Good afternoon. All of you, so we'll start the entire meeting. Number of points in theme list: "Pune the other bill made by the legislatures, as well as the inheritance of the Child Schools for the distributions of social collapses. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed party, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u130	Good afternoon, everyone. We all say that the cycle of 0-3 is the most important and most important for the development of the person, but it is not true. Not for this government, he has shown us that it is not so, because otherwise he would make a real investment in this cycle. And he doesn't do it, he doesn't make investments. Besides, I would go further, and I dare say, in the course of the last few years, that we have objective facts to say, that they are being reduced, and that they are becoming worse. A data, a very meaningful data. All you have to do is look at the budget. In 2014, 57 million, 2015, 54 million and 2016 53 million. On the other hand, the government says, and it became the principal headline, that it will invest in social policies to improve the state of childhood and families. And it was headline: From 2020 to 800 million dollars will be invested. And besides, between 2016 and 2020, 50 million euros. But the objective data is in the budgets of 2016, Mrs. Auriga, as you say very well, 0 patater. That's right in the press, a nice, terrible headline on the media, a very good one. But reality is that a few years hence no one will remember what this government said, and besides, a few years later, in 2020, where the members of this government will be, I don't know where we'll all be, but in the meantime we'll all be fooled by the villagers. And even if all this were small, this government says it's its priority to the public school. That's not true either, because this government is betting on private children's schools. It will divide 24,4 million into zero-3 centers and cycles. What for? For retrieving service quality and quotas. Toma ya! For a fee. You have this data on November 27th, 2015, when children's schools are more expensive than they are in private. The objective data, which some of my colleagues have recently been able to verify. Besides, this government, instead of applying in its entirety a medium accepted in this legislature by the initiative of the Union in 2014, instead of establishing progress according to the income, as it ought, and as a whole, its activity is exploited to clean its face, yes, without changing anything to make a face-cleaning. Why do I say this? 80% of families, 12 euros have been raised in the year, because their scholarships have been removed, and they are given through scholarships. So, with this facial flush, this government has also come to win. And we went on as we were. That's a new dress, but it's an old skirt. And the objective and official data show us that. Besides, our team has made a brief information scene and you've got it all in response, it's all yours, the bonuses that have been established for 2015-2016... That this system, unfortunately, still excludes families with difficult and modest economic situations, and they have no real access to Childing Schools to communicate. And that, when thousands of squares of squares are free, children's schools in common: Araban 508 Square, Bazaz 797 Squares in Gipuzia 1.147. And it must also be said that in Bilbo and Bilbo, the need of public squares is remarkable. So that's where we have no balance. If, then, this government really believes in those which it says, if it does not really wish to make a jest of the citizen, we should ask him to reflect on what he says, a deep and serious reflection, in what he says that he really believes in the practical steps that can be given and that he really believes in. That he believes in the barrier of society, in choice, in equity, in complicity, he believes in Child Schools in common, because we don't see him at all. We see no such thing with the most beautiful actions he does, and with those he practises. And therefore, in the present day, our party proposes another step, a hasty, real, and practical step, in the most important means of this government, which is already reality, and which is to say, and for the sake of education, in order to convert children's schools into exile. Here it is not always a question of creating new means, but of testing what we have, of investing and using them for the purposes we have. And children's school is one of the most important means of sharing. So we are going to take precise measures, to invest in prettys, to give proper answers to persons and families which might be very numerous. In short, to give a suitable answer to these questions which affect all the affairs of everyday life, because here the equality of choice begins to work, from the very beginning of the life of men. Because the system we have right now is clausist and segregator. It is a luxury to enter into common child schools, which is only a luxury in the hands of a few, and not in the hands of all persons or of all families. And that's what this government should be able to do. Because we're talking about the public system. A system by which we place the means of choice, social cohesion, equity... so that we may obtain such ends as we proclaim. And I think we need more than ever such policies, such politics as this, for the personal development of our little ones, to have children as a free decision, to prevent women being punished twice and to make a real choice for the equality of women. And to this we ought to invest public politics in very particular and particular politics, and not in so many discourses. But it's not being like that. And unfortunately, what we're seeing is that there's no choice for public education. There is no choice here, and it is decided that public education should be gradually annihilated, Mrs. Claá. And even to-day, with your government lined up, working on that line, because here it is shown with the most beautiful actions and actions beyond our discourses. And that's why today we had an excellent opportunity, as it seems that some people want to lose this opportunity too. But we'll still be working on it. We had an excellent opportunity, and I think, if there were any sensible one, he would prefer it. To take another step, to give a new step for the public school, for the council, for equality, at last for the persons and families. And unfortunately for those who have the lowest economic levels, to those who have more difficulty. And therefore we planned another measure to improve the system we have: To go deeper into progress. That's why we proposed four transfers. The first transfer to the underlying income of $12,000, and that's what's going on. And how did we get the calculation? Well, the minimum salary between jobs, the amount of additional income and housing preparation being calculated. Don't think about what the 12,000 rent is like. I don't know what it's like. Then we think it's a very logical proposition. We have it clear and our goal is to be a cycle of 0-3, like the other public education system, we are also convinced that it is the most important cycle. But we're very realistic, realistic, realistic, of course, of Donostia, Gipuese, but realists, pragmatics, and practicals, are what we wanted to bring us here a practical step, a capable step, and therefore the four-and-a-half-way we planned for. And it seems to us that the budget is possible and that the budget has means to do so, seeing that in this last course of study 2015-2016, what has happened in common with Childing Schools, in the reduction of the investment, has been removed and the other data I've already given. So that this first stage is free and deep in the clouds. And we plan on our next lesson because we're just discussing the next year's learning that it would be possible to make a proposition like this happen. We tried to open that opportunity with the rest of the party. It was not possible, and only here has it been seen that each one has done his choice and has made his decision. But even if we do not go out to-day, as we have said, we shall continue to work again with the suggestion that it is possible and important to us. For instance, we have here a fellow who has twins, who has gone to the next study to call the Child Schools the Partucer. If you're the only mother, if you're the only father and you have twins, or if you've got two children at those age, you're on what course you're in, some can't be, others can't. It could be 400 euros, that's within five hours. Then it seems to me that we are here playing with daily bread, with families and people's states, and that we are here best. Then let's go for a walk on this subject, because the times change, and the people have needs, and we're here to give answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Basque Popular, Mr. Oyhal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Ubera, I do not know whether the example of your parliamentary colleague is the most appropriate, because, indeed, with the income of a parliamentarian you will not have access to the possibility of scholarships. But what we have to get is that there is actually a scholarship system that works for those families who need it. A concrete proposal is being put forward to review the contributions that families pay in the Haurreskolak consortium, I believe to be overly concrete, because they pose and bring us on the paper, already defined, what the new income tranches that fix these quotas have to be, and it also includes gratuitousness for the low tranche. We do believe, and we have defended it here and in previous debates, that the 0-3 cycle has to move towards gratuitousness, but we must first take into account that it meets the objectives set. We continue to bet on their educational nature, but they also fulfil other objectives, of reconciling work and family life, and what we have to do is to try to assume what is the current reality, indeed the effort that families make, and the capacity of the resources available to the department to deal with plans to help these families at this time. It is a reality that the pre-quotas or quotas to be paid in the schools of the Haurreskolak consortium represent a huge effort for all families, not only for those families who enter less than 12,000 euros. Hey, it's just the middle classes... Now that it is so fashionable to see if the middle classes are suffering more or less, or have suffered more or less from the crisis, and if we are losing families that belong to or belonged to the middle classes, listen, we have to think that we have to move forward in reducing quotas also to everyone, and that the effort, the effort of the public administration, has to try in this case to support all families in all stages. And that is why we have tabled an amendment that seeks to support more those who need it most, but indeed to seek a progressive one that also seeks to support all families, and that we do not consider that a family that enters gross 20,000 euros is already a wealthy family, to which it does not actually cost any work to pay 200 euros for a son or daughter in a haurreskola. Indeed, I think that we also have to think about the means of income, we have to think that we must certainly help... Instead of talking about gratuitousness for some and that the rest have to pay over 200 euros, let's try to see exactly how we can help the low sections, but also somehow we have to think about measures that will also support the effort that families make in the middle sections of income. We need to support the middle classes, and that is why we (less is nothing) have signed a transaction with the PNV and the socialists to try to effectively evaluate the changes that apply in the course of 2015-2016, see if that new system of bonuses actually results, improves the situation of those families who saw limited access to the Haurreskolak consortium, to the schools belonging to that consortium, and from that study and analysis incorporate improvements, in fact, not only for rents below 10,000 euros, but we interpret that we also have to look for improvements for the means of income. We believe that this is certainly the best way forward. Not again extending the battle between the public and private networks to cycle 0-3, but trying to encourage the effort of the Administration and the effort of everyone... Moving towards gratuitousness also in the 0-3 cycle in the coming years means thinking that we have to give a response not only to schools belonging to the Haurreskolak consortium, but also to children's schools and also to concerted schools, where many families, in the free use of their right to choose the education they want for their children... And in order to defend freedom of education, which is a social achievement that I believe we have to continue to defend, I believe that we have to address family support policies in that 0-3 cycle jointly, without making any barriers or distinctions between public and concerted schools. Indeed, the Government has a greater responsibility with a consortium of which it responds directly, such as the Haurreskolak consortium, but what we do from here in the Haurreskolak consortium has to serve in a definitive way to try to see how quota cuts are also addressed in all sections of municipal children's schools and also in the agreed classrooms. We understand that the transaction is a step in that direction, to try to respond to the efforts of families to school their children. I believe that demagogicizing, talking about segregation or talking about the classical system and model, when it has been trying to extend, for many years now, to generalize 0-3 years education to most families, and to make it possible for families, not only in large urban centres, but also in rural centres, also as an element of social cohesion, because it seems to me that it is to take the feet out of the hedge. I believe that we can deal with this debate responsibly, and responsibly also is to address the possibilities that we have from public resources to address a process that has to try to help everyone, all families, and to think especially about how we guarantee free of charge to families who earn less than 10,000 euros, but how we manage to reduce quotas to families who are between 10,000 and 20,000 euros. And we believe that there is a stretch between 20,000 and 30,000 euros, because there is also a very important strip of Basque families, and they also need help.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u133	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Céla, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. Mrs Ubera, my defence of public school over the years is not at issue in this debate, nor is yours at issue when we speak of languages. Early education, attention, the offer made by the Basque education system precisely to the 0-6 year stage – which is a stage, as we all know, voluntary, is not compulsory – is one of the good indicators of Basque education, of our educational system. We offer 100 per cent of seats at two years, a relevant issue, and from four months to two years this Community has been offering virtually all the demand it has, that is to say, in quotas similar to almost 50 %. Other families prefer to stay with the baby for as long as they can, up to two years, and this is also a matter of family group preference and freedom. This, therefore, is one of the issues that have involved a consolidated effort over the years and from the various departments of education. It was my predecessor, Mrs. Iztueta, who took off with the formula haurreskolak. Others thought – and we continue to think best – that in many places it was the public school that should have given shelter to that stage too, but she took off with the haurreskolak, first in rural areas, as we know, and established a system, a combined procedure between the municipality and the Department of Education, so that the municipality put the facilities and the Department of Education came to put everything else: professionals, their salaries, etc. We have all been making efforts in this area, all of us. I remember that in my legislature we were able to provide almost four hundred jobs, we opened fifty-one new haurreskolak, and we gave approximately, we offered, more than two thousand places at that time. Today we have a Christmas break. This is a very bad news for Basque society, for our sustainability, but the truth is that we have fewer children, less girls, and that can also give reason why the Haurreskolak consortium does not have the same amount in the 2016 budgets as it had in 2015. Bildu, Mrs Ubera, who has been maintaining not only a legitimate concern, but founded by this section, made a proposal in 2014 in the Committee on Education calling, inter alia, for quotas to be defined on the basis of progressive issues, on the basis of family income and timetables. So until then, we had scholarships, and she asks (Bildu, this political force) that steps of progressiveness be established according to the income of the families. We approved this proposal with the votes of my political force and the People's Party, and with the abstention of the Basque Nationalist Party. The Basque Nationalist Party, the Government, complied with this proposal, but it does not seem to be satisfactory. Doesn't seem to be satisfactory. But the government incorporated, starting from the 2015-2016 course, a proposal, made a proposal, and configured and activated it, progressively, with sustainable income criteria. In other words, people's incomes were matched by a coefficient of equivalence, and they established three sections of sustainable income, progressive income and therefore payments to haurreskolak. Nobody thinks, nobody thinks the haurreskola is a very affordable service, very cheap. Paying attention to babies is expensive. Dearest, it's dearest. But, of course, the categories of expensive or cheap are very subjective. Depends. But what I want to say is that in equivalence, when one has to do the comparison, and the government has to do the comparison with what is worth a school place in Primary, Secondary, Infantile or university, you know, it knows that it is an expensive service. That doesn't have to scandalize anyone. The case is that the Government actually establishes new public prices for the Haurreskolak consortium, and establishes three tranches: one for less than 10,000, when the income is less than 10,000 euros (the standardized income I mean) and, therefore, the price would be, instead of the general, 118 euros for an eight-hour share and 91 for five hours; between 10,000 and 15,000, 180 and 140, and more than 15,000, 208 and 160 euros. This is what the government is doing, and it is launching it in 2015-2016. There is one issue that is important and that I believe every society should get used to doing. What is not possible is to propose procedures that change to the two-day procedure. This needs to be assessed. This has to be assessed! The economic and social impact that such a measure has on social classes, on Basque society, needs to be assessed. Because we have passed nothing less and nothing more than a system of quotas and scholarships to a system of quotas and bonuses, which in principle can bring some advantage to the family, because the scholarship is received at a certain time, and in the end perhaps (and it is very important, when it comes to scholarships, not only to talk about amounts, but also to talk about the moment when the family receives it), and this is a system of bonuses that the family can receive at the same time that it presents itself for service. They just get the standardized income, and they get the bonus. Therefore, a priori it has some apparent advantage, but we do not know, at least my political strength does not know it, whether this measure has a social and economic impact that was intended. And which one was it meant to be? Hey, the guy who was trying to get close to what the proposer wants, which is what? Listen, that the most disadvantaged social classes can, however, approach the service, that they can approach the service. That is what the proposer is trying to do, but what the proposer is trying to do is to rate it, it is necessary to look at it, that is, exactly how much it is favouring the most disadvantaged classes. Therefore, what we propose here today, those who have agreed to the measure... Hey, we're talking about a measure that's just been put in place! It just started, then it's not time to change horses in the middle of the race. Look, let's finish applying this measure, at least we have year and a half of perspective, and we're going to evaluate it, and if we see it doesn't work, then we have to get better. Maximum if in fact, as the Government has announced on some occasion, it is going to devote millions of euros to education for children or children. Well, if you're going to spend millions of euros on childhood, this is a good place. I'm done. Therefore, the claim of the compromise amendment is nothing more than: here we have a proposal put forward by the Government almost two days ago, families have joined this proposal; we ask for an assessment of the proposal, a revision of the proposal, let us know its social and economic impact, and indeed, believing in the good faith of the Government, and in good faith and in the confidence that the Government also wants to improve the lives of the people who pass it the worst, let the Government, once the measure has been assessed, provide precisely those who are in the worst situation with an opportunity to approach the service of harreskolak. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u136	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. We share the arguments put forward, or many of the arguments put forward by the different groups, and we also share the arguments put forward by the proposing group in its justification. Beyond exaggerations and demagogies that are often raised by different groups in all debates, we can say that we share the general philosophy of what the proposing group proposes. The issue, I do not know if the problem, is that, as is often the case in many cases, EH Bildu proposes a closed proposal, proposes four concrete sections, a very closed and concrete proposal, but that, in any case, it could serve as a reference and that in any case it also implies a modification of the framework put in place by the Basque Government and of which there is also evidence of a philosophy: moving towards gratuitousness and moving towards progressiveness. It therefore proposes a specific amendment in relation to what the Basque Government is doing. We know, indeed, the picture put in place by the Basque Government, and we think, in our view, that it should be changed. We think that progress has to be made in terms of progressivity, with the objective, I do not know if in the short, but at least in the medium term, the gratuitousness in the 0-3 year stretch. This one I think should be the target. I should like to draw attention to the fact that what is now being proposed by the groups that have signed the transaction is an assessment of what has just been set in motion. I believe that before starting a political decision, a proposal, what needs to be taken into account is whether that is indeed the best possible proposal. Because, if not, how long does the Basque Government have to evaluate its actions, and in particular what has to do with the picture referring to the haurreskolak? How long? Every time there is a parliamentary group that raises the debate in this Parliament? Or does the Basque Government believe that the time has come to assess what has been done and the results achieved by the decisions taken and applicable to this course? These are, let's say, some of the doubts that arise from me. In any case, we have proposed an amendment in its entirety. Firstly, we propose to urge the Government to comply fully with the agreement on the adaptation of the criteria for the registration of the Haurreskolak consortium, approved by the Education Commission on 18 June 2014, which I believe has not been fully met, at least not in all its philosophy. And, therefore, this would be, I believe, the first thing this Parliament should do and remember, to urge the government to scrupulously carry out a certain parliamentary mandate. On the other hand, we propose to urge the Basque Government to submit within three months a socio-economic report on the families likely to make use of the haurreskolak services, in order to define both the timetables and the economic stages in the most correct way possible, guaranteeing real access to this service. And finally, what we do at the last point is to urge the government to design a plan for the progressive implementation of gratuity in the 0 to 3 year stretch, which I believe should be a shared goal by all groups. And while we cannot or can reach that goal, try to improve the progressive criteria already put in place. Because it is true that progressive criteria have been put in place, but I believe that these progressive criteria are clearly improveable, and indeed to low- and middle-income families I think they are being harmed. And, therefore, there would also be a margin for improvement. But, in any case, we did want to include in that amendment the need to design a plan for the progressive implementation of gratuity in the 0 to 3 year stretch. With regard to the transactional, which he said at the outset, the Government was once again urged to assess the decision taken. How long is the government going to make this decision? I believe that, in any case, it is a compromise to get out of the way, that it does not say much and that it will not serve anything, that it remains short and that it is very unambitious, and that is why we maintain our whole amendment, which is much more demanding, more progressive and much more ambitious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u137	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u138	Thank you, Mr. President, Chief of Staff, Congressman, all afternoons. I cannot dispute again, because the service the Child School offers of Parternude, without praising its figure, combines care and education, directed to the younger children of two years. It encourages education and development, in conjunction with families, in well-being, in the development of powers and in respect and equality; it offers families a service of assistance, by care and care, to enable them to assist their family and labor, and to encourage education to overcome their partial unity in the school community. As I said, I can only begin my intervention by highlighting what the Haurreskolak consortium and its entire community offer to our society, by providing families with care and care through the care and care of children under two years of age in order to promote the reconciliation of family and work life. Similarly, promoting education in the school community to overcome inequalities, fully developing personality, strengthening values, attitude and knowledge to integrate responsibly into society, without distinction on the grounds of sex, ensuring the bilingualism of boys and girls, promoting the ideal conditions that take into account the two official languages in Euskadi, guaranteeing and promoting in the haurreskolak euskera as a working language and also as a service language. 176 villages in the tri-counties constitute the Parting of Child Schools. Since the year 2003 was founded, he made a route from the number of Square 481 to 8,400 squares this year. And in this traversal, the most recent of the established innovations and improvements is the setting of the new quota system set forward from 2015-2016. As I said, a new quota system has been implemented in this course 2015-2016, leaving aside the quota and scholarship system and applying a new quota and bonus system. The new system reduces the monthly quotas by two of the three tranches, and does not mean an increase in the quota for any family, also implementing a reduction of the pre-maturity, from 148 to 91 euros. Thus, at this stage of non-compulsory schooling, a more equitable system is implemented for user families, allowing to scale the economic effort they make, according to their level of income and of children, which determines the stage in which each family is located. Therefore, from paying all families the same amount within the two options of existing schedules (five hours or eight hours per day), the quota divided into three different tranches has been paid, taking into account the standardized income. Mrs Celaá has already explained what this division of sections consists of: less than 10,000, between 10,000 and 15,000, and more than 15,000, always talking about standardized income. What does this mean? For the coefficient of equivalence of the family unit shall be the sum resulting from the application to each of the persons making up the family unit of which it corresponds of different coefficients. I'm not going to explain to you now what kind of coefficients they are. Depending on whether the family unit is biparental or not, spouse or common-law partner, member sons and daughters and so on. It is set out and explained in the Agreement 02/03-2015 of 18 March 2015. This is a standardized income-based system. This is reflected in Act No. 13/2008 of 12 December 2008 on Support to Families on Children's Schools, article 6 of which stipulates that payment for the service which is conditional on the level of income shall be standardized according to the size and composition of the family unit, in order to give more equitable treatment to the different types and situations of families. And why do I explain all this? Because the sections that have emerged from this new system have not been invented by the consortium, but are established by law. Thus the 18th treaty of March 2015 has already established the present payment system of the families of the year of the 2015-2016 study, which being a system of education which is not necessary for families, and which will enable each family to graduate according to rent, namely, rents, together with the family typeology and the number of children. As I have said of the Erdar, all the families paid the same fee until 2015-2016. For five hours' service, 160 months, and eight hours' service, 208. And today, this quota is preserved. When EH Collected introduced another proposal, as it appears to her, she says that the quota is preserved and also expressed in the press conference she gave yesterday, but what she had forgotten or forgot is now only paid for by families with a standardly income above 15,000 euros. From this last course, as Mrs. Celaá has shown, those who have an income below 10,000 euros are paid 118 and 91 euros, and 10,000 and 15,000 rentholders are 180 and 140. At his press conference the meeting demanded this, and I shall speak in words (I have received it with horror); "Dephinir lamas culotas de las handelas infantiles del consorcio Childar school in Basmodos en tramos de progressividad, en base ingresos de las familys y de los hoaries." That's what he said during his press conference. And that's what's happening today, yes. AUBREY has defined babies' quotas like that since 2015. It's a fact, it's a fact that you don't like what you've set up, if you don't mind the tramoes set up by the Parthians, that's your problem, but it's a fact that you're defined by the Children's quotas in a new system and the fun is already working on this new system since 2015. As I have said, we are discussing a standardized income all the time, because the law itself imposes that a standardized payment of services according to rent must be paid. And, following that, I'm sure it's just a little bit more than I'm talking about. Several families have benefited this new system without waiting for it: that is the important thing. We signed today's middle course with Socialist and Popular Group, considering responsibility and consistency, giving the newly established quota system, asking him to perform a tracking, examining and asking him if necessary, Mr. Maniro, revisar su caso, no todos los, equivism, only to make a toast to Si fues, that's to make a revision for the improvements and the families that have been damaged. And that's why I'd like to thank Mrs. Céla and Mr. Oyhal, for that responsibility and consistencyal attitude they've shown. From now on and with setting your quota system, you have multiple challenges for Child Schools to share. As he has hitherto done, to answer for the new wants which may arise in society, to improve the course of the centers, to combine with families, to encourage the professional growth of workers, to secure safety and health, to strengthen the use of the support, and to promote equality. And in all this he will always have the support and support of our team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u140	I'd like to start with a question. What family do we really want to design this system? For whom? We're told it's not the time to evaluate. We would really be happy to evaluate it, but unfortunately it's not. I explained it on the first round, only a face-cleaning has been made. Tramours and perverts have been placed. And this is not a tramo business, we don't propose a transfer. What we propose is to penetrate into the configurations, to penetrate into progressiveness, and to establish a tendency to the first stage. Why? For the imperfects were the same as before, and besides, it has been taken advantage of that the tramoes have been put in order to remove their scholarships and increase their quotas. Come on, come on, come on! You know, I don't think it's any use in 2015-2010 to reform the system. And if there were really a system change, there would be an investment. On the contrary, the budgets have been reduced. You'll tell me what we need to evaluate, or I'd ask the first one to evaluate and, after evaluate, to go deeper into progress and take another step. There's no problem here with middle classes and high classes. Child schools are for middle classes and high classes. Here the question is, that the others have; Those who have difficulty in economics, low economic social levels. And truly children's schools, when they are of a public system, have no guarantee of social cohesion, they do not guarantee the equality of choice, they do not help to take a step towards equality, and this also ought to be one of their functions in addition to education. The system we have is clausist, and we are not here to satisfy our wants, we are here, especially here, to offer means to those who are most needed, to build a strong public system. At least that's our goal. And this is not charity, I don't want a charity system. It is what we seek, and what EH Collect seeks is to build a cohesion system, to make a solid public system, and to make an investment in it, in order to secure a real cohesion. And then we're told that we have to guarantee the freedom of choosing families. I'm sorry, some of them don't have a choice here, they don't have a choice. A few low economics, those who have difficulties, have no choice, especially women at home are kept in custody. Women are to remain in care, and then, how can we go to society, to disturb these families, to promote the equality of opportunity, when we impose such difficulties on them from the public system? He has no brains or legs. It's a shame. It's really a shame when we lose an opportunity. We see that for this government child schools are no priority, that zero-3 is no priority, and much less public school, is no priority. And today it's a pity that we don't have a chance to discuss with Mrs. Uriart or to have a conversation with her, because I'd like to hear from Ms. Orart, and I'd ask her to tell me what kind of plans you really have in view of the child's school for the future. What is your plan with the cycle of 0-3? What's your plan with the child school? That's what we'd like to know. And I wouldn't want to end the discussion without putting on one thing. When EAJ enables public network quotas to be more expensive than private quotas, a clear message is being provided to the people by more than one message. He believes in private nets that he does not believe in his public system, that Child School does not believe in common, and that this is his choice. His choice is private and not public. And the question is, is that freedom of choice? Is that the freedom to choose which we give to the people?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Oyrel won't speak. Does Mrs. Celaá have a word to do? Not even. Maniro's not here. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u142	Thank you, Madame of the Parliament again. First of all, Mrs. Ubera, the budget, the budgets, and the coots have nothing to do with it. If the budget is lower, it's because in reals there's less investments, because there's no such necessity. Yesterday he appeared in the general assembly, and these documents are public. So there's only seeing. On the other hand, June 2014, we had the opportunity to discuss this subject at the Board of Education, as has been discussed, under the title of evading Child Schools in common licenses...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u143	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u144	Thank you. And by reason of the discussion he accepted the following method: "The law school requires the deputy-general and the Board of Education to adapt them as briefly as possible, the Child Schools to the state and duties of families. Others, including quotas, adapting family incomes and timetables to situations based on progressives." Also today I have heard the word progressiveism all over the discussion. Then I said it, and I insist today that or not, this proposition urged by the EH Collect, is not new. The chairman of the department reported that the department was examining the possibility of establishing a system for reviews, months before the same committee, 2014, which, considering the income of families, would be calculated. That's what the chief physician said on the 14th of May 2014 and the middle is June 6th. So the government's plan has always been clear on this subject from the beginning. So what surprised us was the term of progressiveism in the Union, because it has little to do with progressiveism. It was required to establish adaptations in progressive mode, but to limit them when they arrived at upper intervals. Berriro was a diot hori ez from the ezartzea progression, hori ez da progradazatea berba egitea. Momentu horretan Bilduk dogma hori zeukan: who else has, more pays. Eta the least has, most pays, PNV-PSOE style. Style that most has, most pays, of EH Bildu. Hori zen zuen dogma, bai, zuen web orrian dago. Momentu horretan ez zenuten eabili who has the most pay, according to what, according to where. Eta orduan salatou nuen hori guretzat guretzat itxurakeria zela eta gaur ére salatou nahi dut itxurakeria de la gaur egiten ari zaretena. When you present the law to-day, and give a press of yesterday's, you are in the way of the departure of the EH, which you propose in the end, as well as in 2014, it is the establishment of new tracts according to the rent. And what did you do in 2015? Report what new transfers and prices have been set. That's what he's doing, the new trillions have been set up in proportion to the rent. The scholarship system has been abandoned and the hockey system has been set. So, what's the meaning of this illegal one? Don't you say that in your press conference, it's not one day for another? Not set for new quotas system this year? Must we change already? Isn't this just like being a hypocrite? Is it not altogether in the general assembly of children, yesterday, when I was present, to read a written in the name of the Union, in which I was present? And in this he wrote that the proposal was already admitted in the law, not to wait for the day, but to know what will happen to-day? Yes, yes, it was read in the name of the gathering in the general assembly of the College of Childs of the Year of yesterday. This is to pretend, or else to spread the information that is not true, to deceive society in a party, or whether I know not what it was. But that's what you've done. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The dispute is over and we'll vote the original text of the EHG as a group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 19; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u146	So he didn't accept it. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, Basque Sociists, and Eucabertarians, the middle-line correction that has been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 52; counters, 19; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u147	So it's accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposition of the Socialists as a bill of law, in order to form pensions, is to ensure the incomes of incomes of fashion. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party that has made the proposal, Mrs. Sarasa, representative of the Basque Socialist, has the word to present and take off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u148	Pick it up on. I will explain the reasons why the Basque Socialist Group has presented this initiative. And the reasons are also, as you can see, in the explanatory statement. The circular of 30 December 2008 included, among other pensions, the benefit per dependent child with a recognized disability of 65 per cent or more, over 23 years of age, only when the person was the holder of the benefit. In 2010, Decree 147, which regulates income guarantee income, already in article 5.4, states that the Basque Government can define new cases of unity of living in the light of social developments and in particular the evolution of family models. Consideration as a unit of independent coexistence, with all the consequences that it entails (not only economic, but also support where appropriate), goes through labour integration, and will comply with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the rest of the legislation being developed, as well as the commitments made in the European Disability Strategy. In this regard, Lanbide approved on 30 May 2011 a circular amending the previous one, in relation to the figure of benefit per dependent child with a recognized disability equal to or greater than 65%, whether the person is the holder of the benefit or not, because she is legally incapacitated. (Arratsade on, Mr. Counsellor.) Both cases would be considered pensioners and, therefore, a special cohabitation unit for income security income, a criterion shared by Lanbide. And I say that for income-guarantee income purposes. In 2014 Lanbide again changed the criterion, beginning to consider only the recipients of the dependent child benefit as a unit of coexistence of pensioners; in case they are father and mother orphans, even if they live together with siblings (yes, even if they live together with siblings), both when they are holders of the benefit and when they are not legally disabled. The rest of the claimants of the benefit do not consider that they are entitled to the so-called pension supplement, on the grounds that they are not specifically covered by article 9.2 of Act No. 18/2008 for income security and social inclusion. Lanbide sets its attention on ownership, and not on who the beneficiary and recipient person is, nor on the nature and purpose of the benefit. In this regard, it must be noted that the person causing the disability is always the one who has the disability, and that the beneficiary person is the parent, who, taking care of his or her disabled child, is granted the benefit by Social Security. When both parents die, the entitlement to the benefit is transferred directly to the disabled child. At this time it is when the person responsible for the benefit is also the holder of the benefit. I think it's important to explain it like this. Lanbide begins to communicate the termination of GIR benefits in the form of a recognized pension supplement to the persons to whom he had previously recognized that benefit – and here is the key to all this – and in some cases even informs them that they have to return financial benefits received, which we are calling undue payments. I know Lanbide has paralyzed this issue at the moment, or at least it's the news that's coming to me. I'm going to read a mother's letter in defense of her son's rights. This letter has sent it to me at my Parliament's e-mail address. [[(sic):]] "I speak in the name of my son, of whom I am a mother..." Well, Parliament is not mine. I say the mail from Parliament. Excuse me, it was a lapsus. [[Barres]] This is the mother's letter in defense of her son's rights: "I speak on behalf of my son, whose mother and legal representative I am. My son is a person with a psychic disability of 68 per cent, legally disabled and recognized by the Basque Government as an independent family unit since May 2011. "From 1 September 2011 to 31 August 2013 he received income security income. In June 2013, as provided for in the law and the guarantee income regulatory decree, I requested the renewal of the guarantee income to be continued in the same situation as in 2011. Lanbide asked us for extensive documentation about my son who gave himself up." It links me to the documents, but I'm going to save them. "In July 2013, Lanbide again requested comprehensive and detailed documentation about us, his aitas and tutors, which we delivered. Documents submitted for the second time, as they had been submitted in the initial documentation. Lanbide replied in September denying the benefit that he had been receiving to date for lack of documentation, without specifying what documentation was missing, and that we could make – we were told – a powerful remedy or resort to the courts. We had a two-month deadline for either option. "In November 2013, we presented a replenishment appeal to Mr. Director General of Lanbide. The documentation was exhaustive, detailed and expanded to which we were then asked in the 2013 letter. As they were late in replying," he says, "we demanded at the end of 2014" (a year later) "and we provided more documentation: the circular of the Basque Government of 30 May 2011, which recognized the right of persons with disabilities in this situation to be considered independent family units, and the answer to the question on this subject in the Basque Parliament of December 2014, which the department then gave to the Basque Socialists group." They received a reply in February 2015, saying that the contribution of documents relating to their son did not occur in time and that they had suffered non-compliance with the submission, and they end up saying that they filed complaints at Ararteko in August 2013 and February 2014, and that they have already responded to them with the resolution issued by Ararteko; that there are many people who have filed complaints at the Ararteko office, and therefore resort to us a little bit to make letters on the matter from this Parliament. And that's how we did it. That is why, after so long, because the Socialist Group has asked the department and we have been investigating and we have been getting files on this issue, we have found that Lanbide is not doing well on this issue, because the 2008 Income Guarantee Income Act is the one that prevails, and the Government cannot change a criterion before a law. It would have to change a law for the Government to change its approach. I understand that this is so. That is why we have registered this initiative. And we have merely taken up the Ararteko resolution, in which it urges the Basque Government to define as a unit of self-conviction, similar to those contained in article 9.2 of Law 18/2008 of 23 December, for the purposes of that Law, persons with eighteen years of age with a degree of disability equal to or greater than 65 % and that they are therefore responsible for the family economic benefit of Social Security called "assignment by dependent son or daughter", both when the beneficiaries of it are the holders and when their parents or guardians are legally incapacitated. Secondly, to urge the Basque Government to review the procedures for suspending and terminating the income guarantee income in this mode, for not changing circumstances since recognition and not having complied with the provisions laid down for the revision of administrative acts declaratory of rights, in articles 102 to 106 of the Law on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and the Common Administrative Procedure. Obviously, this person who has sent me this story has not been able to go to court because in half, unfortunately, well, well, she is a person who has suffered from cancer, but she says that what hurts her most is that her child's right to receive this benefit that he has been receiving for two years, and that Lanbide has not given her any answer, that she is missing documentation, that she has not given it in time, when she has given it all. I could have given him another cause, but that was the cause. And I, well, for the confidentiality of data..., I have those resolutions and I do. I've been able to make sure it's true. With regard to the two amendments with regard to UPyD, he urged the Basque Government to stop using legislative development to devalue social policies and to protect the most vulnerable citizens of our society. I understand that, of course, it is an amendment that you have added, but we want to focus on the issue that we have brought here, which does not mean that we do not agree that legislative developments should not be used to devalue people's rights. In fact, that's what the laws are for, isn't it? And more so when they're subjective rights. And as for the amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party, well, it has nothing to do with what we say. They urge the Basque Government to take all necessary steps to harmonize, together with the National Social Security Institute, the interpretation of the rules applicable in these cases of dependent children. We have an autonomous regulation, and we are basing ourselves on that autonomous regulation. We have read the advice's responses where it even recognizes that the 2011 circular existed and that they were respecting those criteria, and suddenly in 2014 it has changed. We have the Ararteko resolutions; the dossier at the moment seems to be open. I think Lanbide has answered, I think, and we're waiting to see what Ararteko's answering Lanbide again. I believe that what is asked here is justice, and I believe that we are talking about a subjective right. And I also want to say one thing: people also have the right, despite who it is, to have an economic independence and to be able to have an independent life, regardless of whether things can be seen in one way or another. But here we're not talking about a family heritage. Here we are talking about people with a disability of more than 65%. Therefore, this is the question. I'm not gonna roll anymore. At the moment it is the first intervention. And, well, I would ask for the support of the groups in relation to that it is also a resolution issued by Ararteko himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u149	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u150	Yes, thank you, President. We had tabled an amendment of the whole which would really have to have been tabled as an addition. In any case, we will vote in favour of the original initiative. Mrs Sarasua has convinced me with her arguments, and I will therefore vote for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u151	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u152	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chief department, congressmen, good afternoons. We propose as much as we propose to maintain the revenues of fashion to maintain the pensions of the Social Party. First of all, we have to say that the subject is perfectly technical and legal, and we will try to explain why we will not protect the basic initiative. Social Security makes the same interpretation as the profession and the euscription of the community. It is true that the profession had made a change of interpretation, a change of interpretation, which is perfectly legitimate, after having examined the question with the Social Security, and it must be said that the two institutions now agree. The discrepancy arises as to whether the benefit per dependent child over eighteen years of age with a recognised disability of 65 % or more (the PHC) can be compatible with the GIR. This should be done in advance by considering these persons as pensioners (and it should be remembered that the competence for such a declaration rests solely with the National Social Security Institute), and, once recognized as pensioners, to exempt them, in the legislation on the GIR, as an independent unit of coexistence in the regulatory regulation of the GIR. We will try to briefly explain the different legal nature and purpose of PHC and GIR. The child or dependent child benefit is a family financial benefit, which is granted to those who have a dependent child meeting certain requirements; a benefit conceptually different from those known as pensions covered by the GIR regulations, and that the 2011 circular itself, which you mentioned and on which you base part of your justification, Mrs Sarasua, also differentiates it. There are a lot of exceptions with pensions, and in another totally differentiated section the subject of the PHC benefit. The PHC aims to help economically those who have children in their care, without having a limit of economic resources in the case of disability of 65 % or more. The benefit is directed directly to parents with dependent children, as an aid in coping with the disability burdens of their children. There are also non-contributory pensions, which, on the other hand, are intended to provide financial support to persons who do not have the contribution time necessary to access an INSS contributory pension. In the specific case, as it is affected by a disability of 65 % or more and lacks sufficient income or income for its subsistence. This financial aid is individual, non-familial, and is directly recognised to those who meet the requirements, not to their family environment. And it is also conditioned by the lack of sufficient income or income at the level established by the current legislation. For its part, GIR is a periodic and subjective benefit of an economic nature, addressed to persons integrated in a cohabitation unit who do not have sufficient income to meet both the costs associated with basic needs and the costs arising from a process of labour and social inclusion. It is a non-individual benefit, since it is always addressed to living units, although they may be one-person, and its purpose is to cover basic food needs of all members of the living unit. It is the last available economic resource to avoid or alleviate the most serious risk of social exclusion. They have, therefore, different legal qualities and ends in the pursuits we have mentioned. Hence every assistance has, as has been said, different conditions, content, and limits from objective reasons. On the other hand, we must also point out that the rules governing social security are clear with regard to the child benefit, and the difference between the cause of the benefit and the beneficiary or beneficiary of the benefit. The person responsible for the child allowance is always the person with the disability, as you mentioned, Mrs Sarasua. It is an aid generated by the disabled person (the causer) for his or her disability status, who reverts to the living unit on which he or she depends (on which he or she depends) and is a member (the beneficiary). The beneficiary holder is the parent, who, with the child with a disability in his or her care, is entitled to the social security benefit to cover the disability burdens of his or her children. When both parents die, the entitlement to the benefit is transferred to the child with a disability, and at this time, at the time of the death of the parents, the status of the person causing the benefit coincides with that of the beneficiary. It is in this case that Social Security actually recognizes them in a situation similar to that of a pensioner (I insist that the INSS is the body responsible for establishing who is a pensioner), and in this case, when they agree, when they are recognized as a pensioner, they themselves, the disabled persons, the recipients of the aid. This is why, for the purposes of the GIR regulations, they can be recognised as a supplementary income guarantee income with the character of a pensioner's cohabitation unit, calculating all their assets and economic income. And we cannot forget that the GIR is aimed at meeting basic needs, not at helping economically any serious situations that may be protected by the public authorities, which will have other means to claim, but certainly not in the GIR. The problem arises with a Lanbide circular of 2011, as mentioned, which contemplated the PHC both if the disabled person is the holder of the benefit and if it is not because she is legally incapacitated. And this new circular of the year 2011 is the one that gave rise to multiple interpretations. Some were based on the second part of the same, obviating the first part, which requires the entitlement to the benefit. That one was obvious. Even enough procedures were put in place to legally incapacitate children older than eighteen with a disability of 65 per cent or more. His profession, therefore, at first allowed both cases as pensioners: When their parents were quits of assistance, when their children were deprived of the law of law, and their children were just quits of preparation. The second case is plain, that after the death of the parents, who have been deprived of their children, it is only possible to give way after the death of their parents. Lanbide therefore, from that moment on, considers the unit of coexistence of pensioners exclusively to two groups: orphans who are not holders of the benefit because they are legally incapacitated, and orphans who are holders of the child benefit. This criterion will apply from now on to all new applications, but no refund has been required for any amount motivated by this change in criterion, which, we reiterate, is the most in line with the law and interpretation that Social Security has been making with regard to PHC and pensioner status. The Socialist Party's initiative aims to change the rules of GIR so that persons with disabilities can be considered as a unit of self-conviction as pensioners, in order to receive GIR as a supplement to pensions, despite the fact that the child benefit is being paid. If the INSS considers them to be pensioners there would be no problem in proceeding according to the interpretation made by the proposer, but we insist that the prior declaration of pensioner is necessary. We believe that GNP does not have sufficient legal basis. It is asking for an amendment of the law in a way that is less unorthodox and that, for the reasons we have put forward, we do not share. With regard to the second point of the GNP, no refund of any amount has been required as a result of the change in the most duty-adjusted criterion currently applied by Lanbide. It has not been applied retroactively. As far as the amendment to the whole of UPyD is concerned, it has nothing to do with reality or the subject raised. Once again, Mr. Maneiro – although he is not – takes advantage of the opportunity to talk about cuts in social policies, but, as much as he repeats that argument, it will not become reality. And in this case Lanbide what he does is apply the same interpretation as the INSS, which grants the dependent child benefit and recognizes the pensioner status. I'm going to finish. That's why we can't accept your initiative, Mrs. Sarasa. That's why we introduced the correction to your initiative. I must only mention that we regard it as necessary in this case, because we are concerned with a preparation given by Social Security, we must harmonize the interpretation with the preparationer, which is precisely what our correction demands. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the line of non-correction teams, representative of the Popula team, Lord Damboea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Sarasua, from this rostrum of your Parliament we will tell you that we are going to vote in favour of your initiative, but we do not agree with the Ararteko's arguments, nor in principle with part of what is asked to be voted on at the end. And I'll see if I can explain. I know that Mrs Arregi is not going to be convinced, because we have been talking about it all morning, but I believe that in this case, and in many others, in this Parliament we sometimes lose sight of the reality or of what we did in the past. And I tell you that I do not share the arguments because the Income Guarantee Act (GIA) is no supplement to pensions of any kind. Then, we disagree even in the title of his initiative. Not in what you ask for at the end, but even in the title. I mean, we didn't do it, we didn't create it, we didn't reform it with you in 2011 to make it a supplement to any pension or no pension of any kind. And then, from time to time, it is worth remembering why we adopt the Income Guarantee Act, and I will read Article 1: "This Act is intended to regulate the Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion, and, within its framework, the right to economic benefits and instruments aimed at preventing the risk of exclusion, at alleviating situations of personal, social and labour exclusion, and at facilitating the inclusion of those who lack sufficient personal, social and economic resources for the effective exercise of social rights of citizenship." And this was regardless of whether pensions are paid or not, regardless of whether they are worked or not. It was on the sidelines of all of that, because they were a minimum to which we all understood that everyone was entitled. And here at all no one ever raised, at the time, whether you had to be entitled to a contributory or non-contributory social security pension. I haven't seen anything about social security in this article at all. I'm not going to read you article 9, which comes in the initiative. He doesn't talk about it either: he talks about how the unity of coexistence has to be... It is an article of the 2008 law that was not amended in the 2011 reform. One thing was changed in the 2011 reform: Article 28, which says when, someone who is entitled to a recognized benefit, can be removed. And of course there is no change of opinion from Lanbide or from the Government; that does not come from that law. And what I don't understand, and I'm saying I don't understand in this case in the Basque Nationalist Party, is that you tell us that it's... Of course, Mrs Arregi tells us: "Social Security, the Basque Government and the PNV agree on the same interpretation". To me the Social Security interpretation of the income guarantee law I will say that I don't care, because its competence is zero, because our competence is full. So, when we're in an entire legislature talking about how we're cut off... What was the government's east mantra like? Recentralization, isn't it? We talk about re-centralisation, and all of a sudden, when we have exclusive competence in this Parliament to say who has the right or has no right to collect income security income, and we never talk about whether they had to have a pension or not, and it doesn't come to the law, tell us that we have to agree with Social Security for interpretation... Hallucino, hallucino. And this is a problem that has been inherited by the councillor of the previous councillor for a change of interpretation of the government or Lanbide, or of the two together, whether consulted or not Social Security... That gives us the same, because nothing paints Social Security on who is entitled or not to income guarantee income, as we created it and as it developed. But also, just like all groups, here everyone does their particular demagogy with the subject, everyone talks about competences... Last week we also had a Bildu initiative talking about complementing pensions and the pension system and all this... Income guarantee income was never raised in this Parliament by any group like nothing else. It has nothing to do with whether someone has a pension or not! It has to do with the income you have or not. And in this case, these people (we are talking about people with disabilities of 65% or more), Lanbide recognized this right. I recognized you, Mr. Counselor, and I paid you. And, by skipping the very article of the law that was reformed in 2011, the 28th, it reinterprets itself and removes it, not provided for in the law itself from income guarantee income. And besides, if we were talking about a problem that affected thousands of people (thank God not), if we were talking about something, in the end, that was going to pose a problem for the management of Lanbide, this management so fantastic that those who do not belong are distributed more than one hundred million, and those who belong to it are not given, therefore, again hallucinating with the position of the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party on this issue. And, finally, I have been accused many times in this rostrum of being the insensitive social, especially by Mr. Prieto... I recognize the social sensibility of the Council far more than mine, I recognise it all in this Parliament, much more than mine, but I believe, Mr Councilman, that we should return to the spirit of what was the law. And I understand that the councillor is very proud that there are many immigrants who have never worked, never paid, never paid taxes, who are covered by the GIR. No, no! Yes, yes, I understand, that you are very proud. But perhaps more proud should be if the 65 % disabled Basques, who were granted that right, were also to have it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u155	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u156	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. To-day, we must again discuss the rights of persons in functional or in state of dependence. Our starting-point, on this subject, is to guarantee the rights of one of the most vulnerable collectives. It's essential that this collective can participate in a variety of possibilities and efficient ways all his life, to guarantee certain rights and conditions in all the fields. Rights, persons to act, nourish, and participate in, field systems, resources, or services to which they ought to be supplied. And among all these resources, there are economic resources, whether to share in the active form of society or to guarantee a decent fundamental condition of life. Today the Socialist team proposed to us that some of our agents have asked us, and the Arlia herself receives it on the 21st of July, 2015. This proposition is not easy to know at bottom, for there have been some singular changes and adaptations. But, in a summary way, what is now happening to the group to which this non-law proposal refers, what is happening to persons over the age of eighteen who have a disability equal to or greater than 65%, is that at this time Lanbide considers receiving the supplement of income-guarantee income and the benefit per dependent child received by its parents or guardians to be incompatible. This child benefit is a non-contributory social security benefit recognized for each child who is at least eighteen years of age. EH Bildu is very clear that this monthly income is insufficient. We are talking about 4,414.80 euros a year, 367.90 euros a month. Therefore, we consider that they are perceptors and perceptors to whom it is necessary to supplement this income. It is also true that it is paradoxical that we have to supplement a benefit that Social Security is doing insufficiently. That is why we also need to re-emphasize today the need to have full sovereignty in order to manage this competition. Nevertheless, it is in our power to society, and the Law of the Confederation of Money; and in the Article of the Relations of the Relations of that Law, in Article 9.2, there is an exception, which we think is taken to be a community of Communion; that is to say, they have a right to receive that pension. And if the problem is an incompatibility of benefits because it coincides with the causative person and the beneficiary, we and we believe that the important thing in this case is to stop at the purpose of the benefit, to analyze its nature, in order to try to dignify in some way a disability situation, because there are also people who may need to cover basic needs, in this case too. We have several instances of our union in this Chamber of Investigation, and of the change of the Money Act, and of working for it, but the end is always to spread and to complete rights. But the change in this case has taken the opposite direction. We do not therefore share the criterion of the profession, especially as he who loses it at this time is one of the most vulnerable collectives. And, as shown in the justification of the proposing group, Lanbide reports the extinction, the non-renewal of this supplement, to the persons who had previously recognized this right, and that even in some cases the obligation to return these financial benefits received prior to the change of the criterion has been communicated. Although Mrs Arregi has said otherwise, the truth is that we do not have data to position ourselves on one side or the other, we do not have data to make us think who is right in this case. So it's something we're not going to discuss. Because, above all, what we cannot ignore, and we believe that it is important in this matter, is the consequence of a decision such as that which has been made. And what we have very clearly is that the consideration of a pensioner to receive this supplement to those who cause the PHC who have a high degree of disability would make it easier for them to have greater economic independence, more autonomy, more active participation in society, among other benefits. Let us not forget that what is perceived by PHC does not reach 400 euros, and the extraordinary expenses that result from meeting people with different abilities (orthopedics, support products, among others) are very important expenses. Therefore, if we really bet on their social integration and the development of their autonomy, we must put the means at our disposal to achieve that goal. We have tools: Income Guarantee Act 2008, in general, and RGI in its form of pension supplement, in particular. It is true that lately we seem to be devoting ourselves to patching up and making initiatives around this law, and on more than one occasion, we have also said it before, what we are demanding and what is really necessary at this time is to sit down and do a deep reflection to complete and expand rights. A deep reflection on this law, and on income guarantee income in particular. However, the other proposition as presented by the Socialists today seems quite acceptable to us, so we'll vote for it. We'll have a couple of points on the directness of two other teams. The first, even if we shareUPyD correction, is quite general and has no definite relationship with today's subject. It would, however, be good to have this correction always present as a fundamental principle. And the second, which was introduced by EAJ, we did not really share, nor understand, as it is proposed. The spokesman has had a chance to explain himself at the bottom, but, as has been advanced, we will vote for the original text. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing on the answers, Lady Sarasa, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u158	Well, in principle I want to say that the child benefit is a social security benefit, and I obviously understand that it is within the family benefits that have characteristics similar to other contributory or non-contributory disability benefits. What I mean, at least here, Mrs Arregi... You have said a number of issues with which I, of course, disagree, because you make statements, but your arguments are not supported either. Because, to see, there is a circular of 30 December 2008 and then there is a decree, which is a rule emanating from a law (so I think it is a valid legal weight), in which it enables the Government to establish coexistence units according to social and economic needs, and so it was done in that circular of 2011, and these people were recognized as independent coexistence units. Guarantee income therefore complements income, does not supplement pensions. I agree with what the spokesman for the People's Group said. And, well, I understand that that benefit that is being granted is to the cohabitation unit, not the individual person. So, if we have two units of cohabitation in the same family, well, that's what we're discussing. I think that these people who constitute an independent living unit, as was recognized in the 2011 circular, because, well, they also have some added causes that have already been explained by the representative of EH Bildu, and therefore can also be responsible and beneficiaries of the guarantee income as a supplement of income. Mrs Arregi, you said that you did not make sense of our non-law proposal and had no legal basis. Judgment 157/2014 of 31 March 2014 states: "The Autonomous Law 18/2008, for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion, in its article 23, recognizes the right to benefit as long as the grounds for granting the benefit remain and the conditions for access to the benefit continue to be met. Therefore, if the causes that gave rise to the recognition are maintained, the Administration is not empowered to review the previous performance. And, in fact, Article 24 allows for control and review in the light of any changes that may occur in the reasons for the concession. "Precautionary suspension is provided for in article 27 (of the above-mentioned Act) "for those cases of indicative loss of the requirements that gave rise to the benefit". "The Administration is therefore not empowered, either in the autonomous law or in its development regulations approved by Decree 147/2010, to review the valuation errors that it may have incurred in relation to the facts under which the benefit was recognized. The change in criteria cannot therefore take place, where appropriate, except through the procedures regulated by Law 30/1992 to which we have referred, i.e. the revision of administrative acts which recognize rights." This is a final judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. There's no recourse. Therefore, if this is not a legal basis, then, well, I invite you to read it, and I believe it is a valid livelihood. And Lanbide has paralysed claims for undue payments. For something it will be. Of course, we have not been studying this initiative from yesterday to today. This issue has come to us in the Socialist Group for some time now, from the very moment we began to ask the government, to investigate what was behind all this. And, of course, I understand that we have been responsible, consistent, but there are already many people who are bringing their claims to Ararteko, and we have also come up with complaints from the associations themselves that represent these types of collectives, and the Government knows that, that associations have also made them feel sorry for this issue. We have been insisting on the initiative, we maintain it, and we invite the Basque Nationalist group to, if it has time, then, well, turn this sentence around, and think about it before voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u159	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Maniro's not here. Madame Arreg, Eubertarians, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u160	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. I agree with the representative of the People's Party, with Mr Damborenea, when he says that the regulation of GIR is true that it is conceptually not a supplement to pensions. Totally agree, Mrs Sarasua also recognized it, but it is true that in practice it works as such. But, according to what you said, Mrs Sarasua, of the decree after the circular of 2008, and so on, if we agree! The issue is that the circular is a circular, which is a topic of interpretations... Ms Gloria Múgica Conde, Director of Planning and Innovation in Employment, signed it, and there, when she does and sends it, she talks about all the pensions that would be exempt, and says: "Per-child allowance with a disability above 65%, over 18 years of age, whether the disabled person is the holder of the allowance or not because she is not legally disabled". And that, that second part is the one that gives rise to the errors of interpretation, because headline is at the moment, when it is orphaned... This is what the INSS says, which will be entitled when they are father and mother orphans, or, if not, in that case, when they are legally incapacitated and then cannot be entitled. But there they will also be able to collect the pension, the RGI, in addition to the PHC. But not when their parents live. That's the difference, and it is a problem of interpretation of this. And I tell him that he gave many problems of interpretation, and in the outlaws they began to apply it in one way or another. In fact, in Álava, many procedures were instituted to incapacitate children on the basis of that second part, the issue of incapacitation, and obviating that parents had to have died in order to be able to hold the subject of GIR. No one has been asked to return the amount for Lanbide's change of criteria. These benefits have not been suspended or extinguished ex officio, although, of course, the new criterion has been applied once new renewal or revision procedures have been initiated. The PHC is received to cover the costs of having a child with a disability, regardless of the income of the cohabitation unit. The benefit itself implicitly recognises the economic effort involved in having a child with a disability of 65 % or more. Persons with disabilities who are responsible for the PHC could claim the GIR as a pensioner's living unit if they apply for a non-contributory disability pension from the corresponding foreign parliament. Many do not because the unity of coexistence exceeds the limits allowed. We must make it clear that income-guarantee income is intended for food, for basic needs. It is not intended to solve any kind of social problem. GIR is not an income from emancipation, nor a support for disability. In fact, in order to prevent it from becoming an income of assistance to emancipation, the limitation of one year of unit of differentiated coexistence through independent life (this also in the regulation itself). While the purpose of the dependent child's pension is to cope with the disability burdens of the children. If they were granted the right of access to GIR, it could be the case of parents with substantial financial resources with a 65 % disabled child and dependent on them who would see the person receiving the full amount of a one-person GIR with 100 per cent of the inter-professional minimum wage, when in reality he or she has perfectly covered his or her basic needs by living with his or her parents. Parents who have already died as a cause and holder of the HCP can be recognized as a unit of living of pensioners entitled to apply for the GIR, because the legislator understands that it is at this time that they are in a very different economic situation, no longer having the resources of their father and mother, and require special protection, recognizing them as Social Security a situation similar to that of pensioners. In short, with this new criterion, no disabled person would be left unprotected, because if they really don't have more income they could always charge GIR, either as a pensioner or as a family living unit. Eta lovedzen duet. We are faced with a collective, sensitive and sensitive disability, in which the institutions governed by the PNV and this parliamentary group are concerned and occupied. But we must act with rigour and legal basis, avoiding falling into mere demagogy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u162	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Blanco, for once we have full sovereignty, don't ask us again! We have full sovereignty in this area, we are competent, we have it. The problem is not one of sovereignty. That's not the problem we have here! Mrs. Arregi, there's no need to change the law. We have the same law since 2008. The same law of 2008 recognized this right, and the same law changes the interpretation and removes it, contrary to the law itself, which says how to remove someone who has been granted the right, and I have told you before. And he says, "It's not a pension supplement but it works as a pension supplement." It works like anything. The difference is remarkable, because in addition to pensions we have no competence. Sure, but that's why we made the law we made. Sure! That's why we did the law we did, in which we do have full competence in social welfare. Because we already knew that, and that's why nowhere in the law are we talking about complementing any kind of pension, none, and that's expressly the law. Because we do have the competence to put in a minimum guarantee income, regardless of whether the pension is paid or not, or whether you are working and you have income or you do not have income. It's just that the legislator... When Mrs Arregi tells us "The legislator says"..., listen, the legislator is this House, it's us! We said, we passed the law, we passed the 2008 and 2011 laws, which everyone now defends, but you didn't vote for it. But we do vote for it. We do, both of us. And the one before. And that's why we know what he's saying. And he doesn't talk about pensions at all. I didn't want to get into this subject, but... The disabled person with more than 65% has the right to receive GIR when he is orphaned, and one puts himself in the role of the parents and says: "And when we both die, then my child with more than 65% disability goes, shows up in Lanbide... (which is perhaps 70, 80 or 90), they are presented in Lanbide and ask for it." I'll leave it there. I'm not going to say anything at all, because I think it's wrong to demagogue about these issues, but it's easy, eh!, very easy. But for everyone. Look, I'm just gonna tell you one thing. Forget about the interpretations of Lanbide's employees, and remember that we are the legislator; that we have passed a law that says what it says. And that law recognized these people's rights, and that law has not taken them away. They have been removed by the Government with an interpretation from 2014. I don't care if it follows the Social Security interpretation for pensions that Social Security has regulated of what, or not. Because we didn't regulate that and we didn't regulate that. We regulate something else. And, therefore, as you said, "The legislator wanted..." The legislator wanted, did and ratified it in 2008 and 2011, and no one from the Government would have to have the capacity to change what the legislator did and wanted in 2008 and 2011.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u163	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u164	Yes, with your permission, from your seat, just to respond to Monsieur Damborena. Mr. Damborenea, I think you misunderstood me. Mr Damborenea, when we were talking about competences, we said that the Income Guarantee Act was in our hands, that we had competence, and that that was one of the tools. What I have said is that it is paradoxical – and now I add it is painful – that we have to be in charge here of complementing a benefit that is being provided by Social Security, which is the benefit per son or daughter in charge. That is why we said that today more than ever it is necessary to manage that competition from here, because it is better that we manage everything to have to complement something that is now being done wrong from Madrid, as shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of another proposal by the same way as the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opposites, 27; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u166	So it's accepted. The eighth point in the subject list: "The mayor, María del lópez de Ocariz lópez de Munininka, a member of the Popula team, presented to the future of the residents of the Arabeba. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, yours is to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I present this motion on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party concerning the sugar beet sector in Álava – a very important economic sector, despite its smiles – in the face of the disappearance of sugar quotas. We could see in the inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, as in the motion and in the amendments that the amending groups have tabled, that we are at a time of weakness for the beet sector, and that we need a competent, strong beet sector, and that it must face the impact that the disappearance of quotas in 2017 is going to have. That's why we need to get ahead of ourselves. It is true that beet production cannot be increased in a short period of time, as has happened with milk production, in the milk sector, which has also been affected by quota liberalisation, but in the medium term this increase is going to occur. She told us that production would increase by 5% in ten years, and that prices will go down. Hence the need for a sector, as I told you, that is more competitive, that is attractive to producers, in order to reach levels of production that guarantee the profitability of the producer and the productivity of the company, because this goes together. The producer and the company are directly related: if the company does not have production it closes, and if the producer does not have company it cannot transform. The processing company and the producers are therefore closely linked. I am not going to go further, because amendments have been made to the motion that we have tabled, amendments that are very much in line with all of them, and we have come to a compromise amendment that I am going to move on to read them, in which the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue working with the Foral de Álava and the producers' associations AIRA and AGA, and to establish, where appropriate, lines of action with the aim of achieving a competitive, stable and sustainable beet sector where measures are explored, in the face of the quota-free scenario since 2017, to increase profitability. In the second point, we say that, together with the Foral de Álava, initiatives are being taken to train, improve irrigation infrastructure and boost the CUMA for the shared use of machinery, with the aim of improving sectoral profitability. We also say and urge the Basque Government to work with the sector to ensure that, to the extent possible, the follow-up to the inter-branch framework agreement is carried out in compliance with the measures it contains, and to encourage the possibility of amending the measures to improve the competitiveness of the sector. To stimulate, with the leadership of the Álava Provincial Council and the communities of regents, a system of exchange of farms in order to increase the area of beet cultivation, respecting at all times voluntary acts. And fifthly, we say that contacts should be established with the relevant bodies of the Board of Castile and León in order to reach agreements that would enable them to receive the corresponding aid for farms on the same holding located outside Álava. Ladies and gentlemen, we said in the question that ten years ago the beet sector, in the face of a change in the European directives, had undergone a major modification of the CMO, and that at that time, thanks to the joint action of the Basque Government, the Foral de Álava and the producer organisations, an agreement could be reached on actions that have made it possible for us today to have a powerful producer sector. Something touched, weaker. This year is going to be a complex year for this sector, because in addition to the circumstances surrounding meteorology, they are making it impossible to reach the seed surface volumes that we all expected. And, therefore, we trust that in this case the Basque Government and the Foral de Álava, together with the producers, will also work to obtain the necessary measures to support this sector. And there is a group, the EH Bildu group, which has made some amendments, but it seems that it did not like the compromise amendment. I would like to say that the compromise amendment that we have tabled here has been consulted with the producers' organisations and written with their contributions. It is therefore an amendment that represents the will of the producers. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u168	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Ever since I collected, Mr. Lazarus, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u169	Yes, good afternoon to all. In agriculture, the popular team in Europe has protected certain decisions to eliminate the systems that were to regulate agriculture productions, and we have here at 2015 the disappearance of the milk-crushes, the vineyard of 2016, will be the worst of the year 2017. And the Popular Group wants no pleas, he wants to leave everything to the market, because the market has the ability to regulate everything, but, of course, without considering... that the market has no social view of the massacre and the market which may socially produce it, and that it has no views of environment, nor of health. The only view of them is to get profit for the great corporations and raise corporations' interests above the interests of the community. Thus, when the Popula has decided to disappear in Europe, and when he has voluntarily decided to be here in this legislature, he presents proposals to repair the destruction of this decision. You in Europe have contributed to the disappearance of the milkpots, and then you are here, in the legislature, to prevent the injuries caused by their disappearance. You have contributed to the disappearance of the vineyards in Europe, and then you are here, in the legislature, who propose to face the evils produced by the disappearance of the people. You are in favour of taking away the quota of remuneration in Europe, and then you are here again, in the legislature, proposing to face the evils produced by the disappearance of it. And this seems to us to be a constant branching, really important decisions, belonging to the sector, which are serious limits in Europe, and you protect them there, and what you do here is to put on some sort of good face and show you interest in the sector. And in your effort to distract people we will not help you. We're not voting for your initiative because we don't share this role of the Popula team and we're voting for it because we're trying to sue it. What's to be said about the brackete area of the brackete? Yes, he has a very difficult Maunam even for the years that followed. The peasants have a vast dependence on their money-friends, and all that is produced in Agranda is carried to Azucara in Miranda. Therefore everything that is produced goes to the same place, with another dependence which it produces. And even if that were a small matter, then under PPk, they're going to disappear. We see that the points you've received in your proposal are most of the points you've received, looking at the production of the reforms, and with some points more agree with, but what we think is that if we want this sector to be the future, we must give it a sort of integral view, or that the solution must come from an integral point of view. That is to say, besides the production, the transformation that is important and the marketing itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u170	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Fresno, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u171	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. When it comes to protecting our farms, and in this case helping to increase the cultivation of beet, the Socialists add our votes, because we believe in the promotion and strengthening of the sector, a sector that wants to continue to grow and work. And in this essential renewal, as in any other economic sector, our proposal goes through active policies, competitiveness and guarantees of employment of agricultural holdings, institutional involvement, coordination, and social involvement through campaigns to support the consumption of our products. All this is part of the proposed amendment which seeks to encourage the profitability of this crop and, by the way, to ensure the continuity of the Miranda de Ebro sugar plant. Because, even if she is in a neighbouring community, her activity depends on Alaves workers, on the lavish countryside. The socialists never put themselves into assumptions of closures of activity in any company, but the risks of the mirandese plant influence the cultivation of beet in its area of influence. But we cannot remain alone in defending what we are talking about here today; we must always look to the future, which is going to happen, yes or yes, because of the greater competitiveness of our products, in this case beet. We call for better technologies and better advice and technical coordination of farms. And in this we must seek the involvement of all the institutions, external and autonomous, and the associations of producers. We talk about aids in machinery, plant treatments, soil analysis, subscription recommendations, training, warnings for pests and diseases at risk, seeds... In short, the sector must be supported to ensure that its production is competitive, and also to ensure the necessary stability in the sector. Because we talk about the Alavese beet growers, good professionals who work well-equipped farms, with machinery and irrigation, have the knowledge and material for the production of their crops, and make a great effort to be competitive and profitable. That's your present, but we need to talk about your future. The key challenge is to maintain cultivation and help make it as profitable as possible, given that in northern Spain, and therefore also in Álava, it has a negative structural cost differential over what is produced by our European competitors. Our production is more expensive (about eight or ten euros per tonne than these competitors), and the reason is in the greatest need for irrigation of our farms. The modification of the CMO for sugar, the new CAP, the quota system that ends on 30 September 2017, are all threats to the sector, which has already suffered enough. If there were 400 farms ten years ago, today there are 160. If there were 3,000 hectares sown ten years ago, they currently do not reach 2,000 hectares. The Basque Government must ensure the stability of the sector by at least 2020, using the articulation offered by the CAP, using both associated and regional aid. This is about the economic side and the impact of it, but we are looking for something else: we are also looking for the stability of the rural population of our community, for our fields and peoples to remain alive. There are many uncertainties surrounding the sector, and they need time to improve competitiveness. These uncertainties affect the countryside and sugar factories, and we must find a way to reduce this cost differential among all of them. Time must be given for the sector plan for beet to bear fruit in improvements through a greater volume of activity. As I said earlier, the scenario is uncertain, as part of the aid that has traditionally been allocated to support cultivation ceases by European mandate, and, with the current structure of costs and prices being borne by beet growers, it makes it necessary to look into the future in order to be able to change the current situation, this future of the unquota beet industry. The Basque Socialists are extremely concerned about the prospects of agricultural markets in the European Union 2015-2025. The imminent change in the EU's sugar policy in 2017 may lead to the take-off of isoglucose production, which may be cheaper than sugar itself. The beverage and alternative food industries are therefore betting on alternative sweeteners, and consumers seem to be pointing to this trend, probably also with a confusion caused by the market around products called light or labelled "without sugar". With all this data, we must ask the institutions, before any change in the current system, for the effect that quotas would have on production, what will happen, what the future sugar will be. The effect on production and, as I have already pointed out, on employment, on the rural population, in areas of consumption. If we have lower prices, disappearing quotas, higher sugar production, which can reach 18 and 19 million tonnes by 2025, can account for 5 or 6% more production than is being produced in the countries of the European Union... These are the problems. Let us look for the necessary tools to help the sustainable growth of this beet industry and our producers. That is why we will support the compromise amendment that we have agreed, because we must continue to work and establish new lines of action, with the aim of achieving a competitive, stable and sustainable beet sector, with increased profitability, and ensuring the continuity of the sector. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía. From here? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u173	Thank you. The indispensable, if short, almost better. I, who am very dating, could put it in Schopenhauer's mouth, but no, almost certainly not. I'll take it for myself. And I say "negligible" because this motion originates from an inquiry by Mrs López de Ocariz to the Counsellor of Economic Development and Competitiveness, Mrs Arantza Tapia, and in that inquiry, which I was listening carefully, the agreement between the two was almost absolute. If, moreover, we have been able to transfer that agreement which they had to a compromise by the majority of this Parliament, between the Socialist, Popular and Nationalist groups; if, moreover, that compromise which we have agreed to absolutely and delighted the beet sector, if, moreover, my fellow Members of the bench ask me that it is time, that they are tired; if, moreover, it is the birthday of the person who presented the motion, Mrs López de Ocariz, whom I congratulate from here and give thanks for not extending the debate much (which does not mean that next Thursday we should extend it, because it will no longer be his birthday); if, moreover, my proverbial ability to get into puddles is in the paroxysm of its creation, then I give almost better for defending the compromise. And, as Churchill would say – that I don't know either if he said it, but I almost certainly do, because everything that is put in Churchill's mouth said it – I almost stop talking, because I talk a lot, when I talk a lot, I fuck a lot, when I kick a lot of sensibilities, and when I hurt sensibilities then I have to ask for forgiveness, and from here I sincerely do it, Mrs. Blanco. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u174	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Someone wants to take the word... ? No? Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote with the Basque Popular Groups, the Basque Socialists and the Eascan patriots, the middle-class correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72 points, 51; counters 21; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-12.u175	So it's accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fifty.
