ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you, the fifth point has been withdrawn and the eleventh will be seen in its place. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the staff of Jonéjébertda Euveda, a member of the community of education, politics, and Cultural Division, to guarantee the access of education in conditions of equality by education. " Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u1	Thank you, Chief. Good day, presidents, chiefs and congressmen. " Person target," that's the compass of Eukong's daily routine. The Basque Government in its government programme has all its public policies centered on a main axis, commitment to people. A commitment to people that is easily reflected and identified in many areas of our daily lives, including health, social services, and in a very visible way in the field of education. This commitment to people is also reflected in a very concrete and fundamental area for the Basque education system. I am referring to the guarantee of universality in access to education from the principles of equality and equity. The guarantee of the universality of the access to Iraqis, according to the principles of equality and equity. This second, in a great measure, consists in the study of the school, and in companions. The guarantee of universality in access to education is directly linked to the policy of grants and scholarships for study and schooling. Scholarships with access to thousands of students in Euskadi every year. We believe that such aid is a key element in removing obstacles of a socio-economic nature that could affect free access to non-university education. That is why we are concerned to hear that the State Administration has made several requests for us to modify these scholarships in Euskadi. In that connection, I would like to ask you the following question: What are the aid policies adopted by the Basque Government in this legislature to ensure non-university schooling? What's the use of the support policies set up during the legislation of Eukojok to re-school out of college?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u2	Thank you, Mrs. News. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u3	The President of the Parliament, Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Dear Madam, I am very grateful to you today for my opportunity of answering this question, because it is a theme of primary equality for you to guarantee terms of equality in the access to education. Person aim. This government has a firm commitment to people, essential services, and education of our children. In this engagement, the guarantee of the principle of equality and equity to enter into education must be distinguished, of course, from the universality of instruction. Thus it is a fundamental system of education that this system of education should answer those principles of universality and equity. In fact, these principles are the characteristics of our education system. That's why they're called schooling scholarships and aids during the law. These scholarships give the reply to various components: the dithytic material, the traffic, instruction, and dining-room, as well as the rest. To eliminate all possible social obstacles, and to ensure that there will be no student or family left in our education system because of these obstacles. We move forward from the rocket. Thus, after the State Administration had made and established resources, we had to defend ourka system. In fact, after more than thirty years of the service in the field of teaching had been transferred, the State Administration has been for the first time opposed to the formation of our system. Totally unacceptable. As I say, our scholarships have been resorted to by the State for the first time, something inadmissible, and, of course, we are obliged to defend our competences, not only in this case, but also to other requirements such as those made to the OPE or to the curriculum of basic education. I must stress that, even with a difficult economic situation like that which we have experienced, and under the principle of prioritizing those actions which we consider essential, we have not hesitated to devote the necessary economic amounts to ensuring the equality of all our students in access to quality education. Moreover, we have increased the amount allocated to non-university scholarships, which has increased from 50.2 million in 2012 to 54.3 million in the course of 2014-2015; that is, 4.1 million more. As far as this exercise is concerned, where appropriate, it will be increased to meet all the needs that might arise in this area. This figure, translated into the number of scholarship students, represents an increase of 4,753 students. It highlights the number of scholarships for teaching materials, amounting to 123,702, and that for catering, 61,287. We can conclude, with data from the 2014-2015 course, that 34.26% of students in our education system receive support for aspects related to schooling. All this, together with the belief that our system of scholarships is absolutely assured to penetrate into discipline, leads us to defend this system with firmness. Our support system, designed within the framework of our specific area of competence, is one of the cornerstones of a quality education system such as ours, in which all our children have guaranteed equal access to education.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u5	Thank you, chief physician, for your explanation. Our parliamentary group, the Basque Nationalist Party, is concerned about the information we have just received about the state government's requirements for scholarships. In this regard, we wish to denounce the intention of the Government of Spain to undermine the right to manage our own scholarship system. As you said, this is a transferred competition, which we manage on the basis of the interests of Basque society and our closest reality. Spain resorts to the Basque system of scholarships for the mere fact of being different. What he does not recognize is that our scholarships are more equitable and more guaranteed than the scholarships offered by the Spanish State. We are faced with one more attempt to centralize everything related to education, and in that regard our parliamentary group, and the Basque Nationalist Party, will oppose any attempt at centralization, homogenization, and will stand with the Basque Government and the lehendakari Urkullu in the defence of self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u6	Thank you, Mrs. News. Second point on the subject list: "I'm asking, "I'm asking you, the legal member of the Casanova Alonso EH Collect Group to the Chief of Economics and Companions, about what Arcelor-Mital international company has decided to interrupt the activity of the plant in Zuline." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u7	Good morning, everyone. On the 15th of March, ArcelorMittale announced that a part of the activity of the factory in Zumarta would be interrupted. In consequence of this decision, he was determined to transfer 325 workers. When we got this question registered, we said that this transfer report kept him from ever closing up once and for all. After the company meeting yesterday, I'm afraid that's a fact. It is clear that what really lies behind euphemism is the intention of shutting down the factory. If that threat were to be done, the number of workers who could lose their jobs, the main company, and the assistants, could arrive at 600. We want to tell these workers who are having a bad time and who care about their future, and all the workers who are in similar situations, our closest union. And that's why we're asking the Red Munchon: Are you interested in an integrated strategy to guarantee the activity and jobs of the company in Zumartal? "Tiene el Gobierno Vasco, unantil strategy, para vantividad y el empleo en la munaceal Arcelor en Zumarga?"
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u8	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u9	Mr. President, Mr. President, officers and congressmen, all good days. Mr. Casanova, as you know, has an industrial plan in progress since the beginning of the year, which is a chief of our axiss, a keeping and continuing industry in our country, and especially in two cases: on the one hand, in the business of affairs, but also in the future. In this case, we're always talking about somebody who's in trouble, and we're always saying that when the company brings in a serious industrial plan, that he has investments, and that when he's able to keep the job, he's gonna help with the fun, the investments, how to make them, how to shape them, or anything else. And that's always been our way from the beginning of the law. If we go to the ArcelorMittal company, it is a steel company that has been in trouble for quite a long time, not at this time alone, to which we have paid special attention since the beginning. And there is nothing more to see that in September 2013 we were already talking about the problem that energy prices posed for this type of industry, which were wasting their activity. But beyond that we are faced with the problem of China, which makes us a specific dumping, and above all the low demand as a result of the product crisis taking place in Zumarraga. Therefore, it is a special case, which is affected by general problems, that is to say, global problems that are being dealt with in Europe, such as that of anti-dumping, energy problems that are being dealt with in Madrid, and specific problems in Euskadi, from where we can also work. The proposal put forward by the Government therefore analyses the three areas: the problem of Chinese dumping, to be dealt with in Europe, where we are already working; the problem of energy in Madrid, where we are also working, and the problems that we can tackle from Euskadi, or from where we are going to start working. A proposal presented to the company committee and to the municipalities, by the way, and to the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, of all colors (Socialist Party Councils, EH Bildu, PNV; Gipuzkoa Provincial Council of EAJ-PNV), and with the company committee, where last Monday a unanimous agreement was obtained to have it as a basis document to start working with the company. And yesterday, after the company committee meeting with the company, the committee itself stated that it was a plan that could guarantee the continuity of the company, and that they trusted in the work that we could do together. But, of course, for this we need two things: the involvement of the company and that of the workers. The workers are involved and are working. It is now up to us, both as a government and as a company, to work and get involved in making this a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u11	Thank you. Do not talk to me about dumping, because the Chinese product that is entering is flat steel, and the product that is manufactured in Zumarraga is long steel, and of course, although dumping has an impact on the steel sector, it is not directly related to the Zumarraga issue. And it's obvious that your government is improvising. I wish you luck, because what is at stake is the future of six hundred people. Not only do I wish you luck, but I express to you the will of our group to collaborate in something that is more important than our partisan disputes, such as the salvation of those six hundred jobs. But that is not an obstacle for me to make a severe criticism of you here today. I repeat, you are improvising, and the best proof of that is that you presented a plan in haste that you have had to remake after the harsh criticisms received. A plan that has been denounced as a shortcut to an already out of date proposal, which envisaged making even investments that are already made. Since when was it known that Zumarraga could have problems? The reality is that Zumarraga is in a situation of partial obsolescence because it has not been invested in product renewal and diversification, nor in the training of workers. The Basque Government had been aware of the problem for months, and had not been able to design with time and depth a feasibility plan that was now trying to counter-clock. On this issue, as in others, they are going to tow events, trying to put out the fires rather than prevent them. Everyone in Ezkerraldea and Zumarraga knew about the delicate situation of Arcelor's plants; everyone but apparently the Basque Government, which is waiting for the crisis to break out to run, does not know whether to solve the problem or to go on television. In the face of crises, this country needs a proactive and non-reactive government, which permanently scans the industrial sectors and detects problems before they explode in the form of closures, and is not then forced to improvise. The government knows that there are sectors in crisis, such as steel or oil & gas. Don't wait for the next lockdown. And with regard to Zumarraga, I tell you that we are not going to put sticks on the wheel if you put on the table a plausible proposal for feasibility. On the contrary, we will collaborate in what we can. But the company needs more than good words. Any plan should not only avoid short-term closure, but also ensure viability in the future. This will require budgetary resources, and we would like to know what budget is available for this. In this regard, our group has publicly presented a proposal for the creation of an industry support fund, which would, inter alia, generate sufficient funding to meet the financing and capital needs of firms in crisis such as Zumarraga and ACB. We are contrasting this proposal with social partners, and when it comes to its final formulation we will bring it to this House, as we have done with the proposal to sign a major social pact to achieve 3% of R & D investment in five years, 3% of gross domestic product. Being in the Teleberri all day, you can win elections, I don't doubt it, but the industrial fabric of this country is not taken forward. This country needs a real industrial policy. Trade unions have already erupted in the face of their government's pure marketing policy; that is why the country's majority trade unions have called for a demonstration. That's where we'll be...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u12	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Your time is over. Thank you. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u13	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I'm glad you're not going to put sticks on the wheels and work together. I'm glad, because the committee has decided so. First of all, the proposal is the initial one, I have not rewritten it, because it considers everything... We ourselves have introduced a few more investments that we consider important. You will discuss the initial proposal and the next one. Analyze it well. From the beginning, we attacked obsolescence, diversification, investment and training. They were in the initial document. But I'm not going to discuss that. The viability plan must be carried out by the company. We are collaborators, and we are going to be collaborators from the beginning to the end. That is our goal: to keep the company in place, to have an industrial plan, and to have an industrial plan for the future, not just to deal with today. That is why we are talking about diversification, new product and attack on structural problems in general of steel, and not those that refer only to the plant of Zumarraga. Both. You are right to analyse the proposal, which is nothing but a proposal to work with the company and to which the committee has given its approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Third point in theme list: "To ask, the members of the United States of the United States, Blanca Roncal Azanzas, a member of the Society for the President, a question called "Margüello problem" about defending public interests." Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u15	Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. In your balance of these thousand and peak days of government you have demonstrated, among other things, the principles that gather your ethical code; the ethical code heir to the one you started, established for the first time the lehendakari Patxi López. So from the Socialist Group we can only applaud the fact that the actions of the Government and of all the public and trusted positions that depend on it, as well as any public society or enterprise, meet criteria of impartiality, objectivity in decision-making, responsibility for management, honesty, and subjective disinterest. You assumed this behavior guide, but you also inherited and assumed the characterization in a case against former health officials who, according to the indications contemplated today by justice, were able to commit crimes of prevarication, trafficking in influences, embezzlement of public funds and prohibited negotiations to officials. Now the government that you preside over must take a decision, which we hope will respond to these principles and values that we have commented on. It must decide whether to bring charges against those persons who in the past, since the management of the public health service, and as the courts deduce, were able to avail themselves of the resources of all. And it is important to know what this decision is, because it was the House itself that considered that there were political responsibilities, that recruitment procedures should be improved in the future – as has already been done – and that it also considered it opportune to make available to the Prosecutor's Office the acts and investigations carried out in this commission of inquiry. And this was done against the majority group of the House, which was yours, the parliamentary group of the PNV, and in the midst of serious accusations on the part of who today is his advisor, who in a document he signed in March 2011, in addition to insulting the work of the House, defended the management cleanup that the courts question today. That is why we appeal to his code of ethics and responsibility, which is the defence, as lehendakari, of the interests of all citizens, of all Basques, not only of those affiliated with his party. And we do so when we are in the legal time frame for each person (in this case the Basque Government, whom we appeal here) to act in the court order. And we ask you how it will clear how many responsibilities can be derived from this case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs Roncal, let's get to the point, let's get to the question. We are going to give up what is the 1,000-day program, the ethical code, the origin of the political-institutional history born of the Socialist Party government with the support of the People's Party... Well, look, the position that the Basque Government is going to maintain is exactly the same as it has to date. The same one that was held in the previous legislature, Mrs Ronca. The Government is a person in this case as a particular accusation, and we will continue to do so until this matter is finally resolved and clarified. The judicial process is open, and depending on the requirements or issues raised by the Basque Government, it will continue to act with complete objectivity and transparency. So, Mrs. Roncal, for our commitment to society and to our care, to explain what has happened, we will continue to help and share in the judicial process, as we have done so far. 'Esunk', as I've said before, will act with perfect transparency in defense of the general interest.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u19	Yes, Mr. lehendakari, focusing on the matter: "extremely rigorous management" of that health team, including today's accused, accusations against the Court of Auditors, "nauseabundas accusations" of the political groups we wanted to investigate the facts, "false accusations"... These are just a few sentences from that document signed by today's councillor, Mr Darpón. As that document also said, "the paths of politics are sometimes crooked", and those paths of politics have led to the fact that whoever criticized the Government for the facts that are in the courts today is the one who has to defend the citizens against whom justice today considers that they may have been delinquent. And it is that contradiction that worries us, because we do not see it overcome. It is that tortuous policy, when someone is wrong and does not say that he was indeed wrong and recognizes the mistake. And in that case they have also made insults against this institution, against this very House. That's why we demand you and ask you to show a strong, favorable attitude and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u21	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u22	Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. You speak of contradiction, Mrs Roncal. Look, the Government has made a decision, and it is keeping its character in the case as a particular accusation, precisely to defend the general good above and above any personal opinion. And I would also like to remind you that all the economic directors of the Basque Government, all the economic directors of the Basque Government, including those of the previous executive, those of the López Government, have stated that there was no economic injury to the government (all the economic directors, Mrs Roncal), "since the contracted services were carried out on the agreed terms and in accordance with the established rates". These are not my words, Mrs Roncal; they are the statements of the directors themselves during the investigation of the case. And as for the manifesto that you quote, Mrs Roncal, I assure you strictly – since this is what you demand of me – I assure you strictly that there is no conflict of interest between a personal opinion and the defence of the general good. That manifesto was made public during the work of the commission of inquiry now five years ago, and what that manifesto did was to criticize the continued interested leaks that occurred from its contents; a reality contrary to the regulations adopted by the commission itself and, therefore, subject to criticism. So, Mrs. Roncal, this subject is in court, and, above all opinions, what concerns the government is to respect the work of the judges. And we will always continue in this judicial process in the defence of the general interest. This is more than anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, "The question is, the members of the U.S.A.'s staff of the Basque Group to the president, the fraud of the public contract of the schools and the measures to be taken." Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Urkullu, the fraud uncovered in the public school catering service's awards, which could amount to more than EUR 200 million, originates from the very recruitment system established by the Basque Government. The technicians who supervised the project, who have supervised it over all these years, knew that they were always..., that they were the same companies, the same seven companies the contractors of the entire contract. They knew him. The political leaders also knew him, but he was allowed to do so. It was not reviewed, no action was taken, and this leads us to believe that nothing in this case could have happened without some kind of active or passive connivance on the part of the Administration. That is why, Mr Urkullu, we want you to tell us what you have done since this case was known, and what you are going to do from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u26	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u27	Andrea president. Mr Oyarzabal, it seems to me very good that you want the Lehendakari himself to answer it, but the truth is that this Government has already expressed its appreciation on this subject, which makes you think that the purpose of your question is simply to seek a new and greater media impact by addressing the Lehendakari. The Euscalal Command of the competition has punished the catering-epresional activities, not the administration's contractation or action. The Administration has been the main victim. As already stated in this House, in its investigation the Basque Competition Authority has not appreciated – and it says so strictly in its report – any indication of connivance or favoration by the Administration in criminalized conduct. Parliament has already taken a decision on this, and has reached an agreement with a large majority on the fraud of catering companies in school eateries.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, as the Government had already explained, you could have saved yourself getting out too! I guess they don't have to say anything anymore, they've already said everything. We wanted to listen to Mr Urkullu, and Mr Urkullu does not respond, although you do indeed remain committed to saying that the biggest fraud detected in a public procurement (€200 million) is the Basque administration. Hey, no. The worst is Basque society, Basque families, mothers and parents who take their children to school eateries and who pay very high fees. Despite the allegations... At the beginning of this legislature there were already complaints, at the beginning of this legislature we already brought this case here, there was already a runrun that something did not work in that recruitment. Everything was denied by the department's officials, Mr. Urkullu. Everything was denied. Until the Basque Competition Authority confirmed the fraud, concertation of companies, overprices, overcosts, broken the public coffers, you did nothing. Until we brought this into public light through the media, you didn't move. You're acting late, Mr. Urkullu, no matter how much you don't want to answer. It has harmed the public interest, it has harmed all Basque families, it has benefited certain companies with millionaire contracts, it has not safeguarded free competition, and you know it. And that is why we demand that the responsibilities be determined. This Parliament has mandated the Government to go to the Prosecutor's Office, and we want to know whether you, Mr Urkullu, have already ordered that you go to the Prosecutor's Office to clear up responsibilities, if any, criminal. But we believe that political responsibilities must be demanded, Mr Urkullu. Someone has to take on political responsibilities! We need to get to the end, and we want to know if you, Mr Urkullu, are willing to get to the end. We want to know if you are prepared to support a committee of inquiry in this Parliament. We want to know if you're willing, if you're really willing to get to the end. If you have nothing to do with this, then we want to know if you will support a commission of inquiry, if you intend to follow the same companies fined by the Basque Competition Authority benefiting from the same contracts and overprices... We want to know whether you are going to maintain a contract that you modified according to the same companies, because it was the same companies that took the eighteen lots again, and also at the highest prices. You have made up a new contract (the ones responsible for your department) to get out of the way, but it is the same companies that carry the same contracts at an extra cost. And as long as you do not challenge that contract, as long as you, Mr Urkullu, do not claim the breach from the public purses, do not claim the money from those companies, as long as you do not challenge and suspend that competition that allows those who committed the fraud to continue to benefit from the Department of Education's largest contract, you will not have credibility, and of course you become responsible for this entrepreneurial fraud.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u30	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u31	Mr Oyarzabal, I think you seem to forget that we are facing a practice contrary to the free competition that has been sanctioned by the Basque Competition Authority, in which this administration is the main victim. Yes, this administration. All the detailed information is available in the resolution itself, and I believe that already in the debate on the motion previously tabled in this House it was clear what their participation in the previous legislature was. Therefore, Mr Oyarzabal, I think you should also try your clothes. As I have already said, this matter has also been discussed in this House, the Basque Parliament has already spoken about it, and it has reached an agreement with a large majority on the so-called fraud of catering companies in school eateries. Zentzu honetan, otsailaren 19 year Legebiltzar honorara etorri nintzen eskola-jantokien kontratzio publikoari buruzko information age azalpenak ematera. Mr Baina, Mr Lehen, Mr Bezala, Parliament has already taken a decision on this, and has reached an agreement with a large majority on fraud. In particular, a compromise amendment was adopted signed by all but you groups, who voted against it. The Government, beyond the measures it has already taken (which it has already taken) in the field of public procurement for the school dining service, will do its utmost to comply with this agreement. Moreover, this Government has acquired through its government programme the commitment of an exemplary government, an effective, transparent, accountable and rigorous administration in the management of public resources. I assure you that this is a commitment that we have fully internalized, and we work day by day to achieve it. Mr Oyarzabal, we have no problem in coming to this Parliament and, of course, in complying with the agreement. But in this case I believe that, having dealt on several occasions with and adopted an agreement by the House itself recently, it might be thought that it is only a matter of discrediting the work of this executive and simply having a few more minutes of publicity. And don't worry, Mr. Oyarzabal, that today ETB is devoting a minute to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The eleventh subject on the subject list: "To ask the question, Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team, concerning the attention of the survivors of terrorist attack."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u33	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to you all, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. Information recently published by a media outlet on April 1st was entitled "The Basque Government will correct the deficit of attention to survivors of attacks". The word "deficit" is a textual term used by the protagonists of the press conference, in which various actions related to the testimonies of victims of terrorism were reported. Therefore, the Government itself recognizes that there has been a deficit in the care of these victims. We agree. Not only has there been a lack of attention to these survivors of the attack, but in general to the victims of terrorism. There has been a historical deficit, and specifically and especially over the past three and a half years, i.e. throughout his term of office. The issue is how this Government is going to correct that historic deficit, that is, what measures it is going to take to benefit the victims. At the same press conference, the heads of Gogora and the Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence numbered 92 relatives of those killed by terrorist organizations who agreed to record their testimonies, out of a total of 280 families to whom they addressed, only residents of the Basque Country, which means that two thirds of those affected did not want to cooperate in this initiative. However, they refused to detail how many of the testimonies belong to relatives of citizens killed by ETA. So, here are some questions. Why only residents in Euskadi? Only a third of the relatives of the murdered agreed to record their testimonies, as I said, of a total of 280 families to whom they addressed: what do you think this is due?, perhaps due to a lack of confidence in this Government by the victims of ETA as a result of the action of this Government towards them? And how many of the testimonies belong to relatives of citizens killed by ETA? Do you have that data? And finally, is it not a little late for the Basque Government to consider correcting the deficit of attention to survivors of terrorist attacks by this Government? Isn't it too late? Finally, these are the specific questions I wanted to ask you in this speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, this Basque Government and the previous ones have taken the issue of victims seriously. All governments. And in this trajectory we have made mistakes, yes, we have made mistakes that we have self-critically acknowledged to the victims themselves, but there are also realities that allow for a positive global assessment. You were talking about the historical deficit. I do not know whether the deficit has been historic for only three years now or the historical deficit has been historical for a longer time, but I think that, being honest, it is also necessary to underline the realities that allow for a positive global assessment. It is not an attitude we have taken now, Mr Maneiro. In 2013, the Basque Institute of Criminology conducted a study on the needs and demands of victims. Many of them lacked more personalized attention and wished to have a direct participation in the social processes of memory building with their testimony. The Gertu programme began in 2014. The Victims Directorate of the Basque Government contacted, one by one, all families residing in Euskadi of victims killed by terrorist acts. These interviews with nearly 300 families allowed a personalized and close treatment, which helped to better understand their needs and demands. And we are talking about before the creation of the Gogora Institute, Mr Maneiro. In 2015, the second phase of Gertu was launched, which consisted in videotaping the testimonies of how many families of murdered victims wanted to do so. Today we have the recorded testimony of over ninety victims. And in 2016, this year, we have launched and launched the third phase to record the testimonies of injured and threatened people. We don't settle, Mr. Maneiro. Today we have sent to this Parliament the report on the injustice suffered by people threatened by ETA, made by the Institute for Human Rights Pedro Arrupe. And we do not settle, Mr. Maneiro, we will continue to act. We know that we have much to do to achieve genuine coexistence and social encounter. We don't settle, because in victim policy – and I honestly say this – you can always take one more step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u37	Yes, thank you, lehendakari. Indeed, errors have been made mainly by Basque nationalism, its political party and its Government in relation to the victims of ETA, and the fundamental mistake is to have been insensitive. This is the fundamental mistake, and I have reminded you of it in recent years on countless occasions, and you have accused me of doing demagogy for it. And it turns out that you later acknowledge that there is indeed a deficit and that mistakes have been made. And that's what I've been remembering for the past three and a half years in relation to your attitude towards the victims of terrorism. And obviously we do not conform and we will continue to do so, but how do you intend to correct that deficit of attention? Just recording testimonies? It seems to us, of course, very little. I think these victims deserve a lot more. They deserve, first of all, empathy, they deserve closeness, they deserve tribute and recognition. You have to rely on the associations of victims of ETA terrorism. He hasn't done it, he hasn't done it as much as he was supposed to lately. And by not matching or mixing some victims with others. That is, it is not enough to record their testimonies; much more needs to be done. We must do just what you did not want to do all this time: closerness, more empathy with the victims of terrorism, correct that historical deficit. Correcting and treating them as they deserve is what we ask of you, Mr. lehendakari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Maneiro, with all due respect, I do not know whether your dedication to the tasks of the party to which you belong in the whole state prevents you from learning what is really happening in Euskadi. Look, your code of political communication is demagoguery, yes, and the permanent use of partisan and interested victims of this issue. And I don't share or understand that code, and I don't think Basque society either. For the game of demagogy, Mr. Maneiro, don't count on me. My communication code is the facts and the proceedings, and the facts and the proceedings I refer to telling you whether you really know what is being done in this Basque society, in this Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, between all the administrations, and particularly from the Basque Government, towards the victims of terrorism and also with the associations of victims of terrorism. We can talk about this with serious contributions, balances and self-criticism. Look, a real fact: over the past year we have made progress in consensus on issues of memory or recognition of victims; all parliamentary groups have participated in the victim recognition events held on 20 February and 11 March. All but one: yours, Mr. Maneiro. All but one, yours. It is something that should make you reflect, although, of course, you, as you also said yesterday that all your ideas are good, will think that all of us are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation made by the members of the Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH Collector to the president, the measures to take before the data of the tax collector in 2016." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u41	Good morning, Mr. President. Right here in February, we explained our concerns with the development of the tax collection. At that moment, the collection of taxes in 2015 was already very short, and the collection of taxes which had been foreseen for 2016 was evidently a question. However, your government approved the predictions made in the United States of the United States, and did not at all see the need of change in the tax system. Today we have the first data of 2016, especially the tax reports from February, and we have to say that data strengthens our concerns. For, according to the data of the first months of 2016, only 1,8% has increased in proportion to the latest tax-counts when you have predicted 7% of the year. We know it's only two months' data, and you'll tell us there's still a lot to finish the year and there's not enough months to collect. We know that too. But the collection data is there, and, actually, they don't point at anything good. We warned at the time, that the collection forecasts were too optimistic, too triumphant, considering that there was no change in taxation that pointed to that line. Predicting to multiply by more than three the increase of the actual collection of 2015, previewing to increase the collection by more than 880 million, when in 2015 it had not even reached 300 million, was a recklessness. And now we see how the collection data put us in the face of a little flattering situation: if the data of 2015 were a major setback, we see that these of 2016 can suppose the anchoring of a situation that has not just taken off, however much day and day we also try to sell the bad so-called recovery in different presentations and public acts. With revenue growth of less than 2 % and complicated economic forecasts – let's say – the budgetary picture presented for 2016 does not seem to be what the government expected, and will therefore soon have to take action. In 2015, the funk was 277 million dollars less, and, according to your words, it didn't mean any reduction because, by the ordinary estimates of the budget, you've solved the consequences of a smaller income by technical means. That's your explanation, of course, which is not credible to us. The constraints, in fact, were in those budgets. In this situation, measures may be taken in several different ways. Some of us from the EH collect, we've often built them to the desktop, but the teams that support our financial policy, EAJ and PSE have preferred to close their eyes to reality every moment. That was your chance all these years: to perpetuate the state, to act without ambition. In the midst of the tax politics you continue to wait, waiting for the measures which you agreed on at 2013, to give what you planned. It is truly surprising that, in view of the collection data that have systematically failed to comply with its forecasts, those grandiose forecasts that they made when they presented the tax counter-reform, have not only put forward any measures to correct it, nor to take into account the proposals of other groups, but have deepened in it. They have delved into the mistake, as evidenced, for example, by the accelerated change in the tax on the great fortunes made by the Gipuzkoa Diputation. It's more and more obvious that your tax-contradictory is not to be given. Not only because he does not complete the sum of money: for even in the fountains of money it has not produced a profound change, because it has always produced such a change in the PFIL and the tax upon consumption. And what about the scandal policy and deficit? Not a measure. We have opened our hand from the collected EH to plan the measures which answer to the social social social reality, and to promote them in a possible negotiation to the desktop of the State. But again, "No." We hope to bring the subject back to us soon enough, and we'll see what's left of your push-ups recently published. You say it's negotiated with the state, and the budgets of 2016 are already here, when you admitted to them in the parliament, so here's a fixed defense line, exactly on January 18th, 2016, as appears in the answer that's been given by M. By this agreement you have only accepted the same amount which the state has imposed upon the other autonomy members. We don't see any deal here. So we're here once more that the budgets of the year will be a problem to respond to the reality of society. Once again, following your example, you fail. The budgets of the government have no foundation for the welfare of society, though you insist on the amount which you address to social police. Social differences have increased during the past few years, but to the President is to perform the supreme triumph of a thousand days' balance. You're still wrong. It has been reported by us, over and over again, that the budgets of this government are making a few priorities and naturally different ones. But the risk of getting worse is getting more and more intense. It is no longer the problem that these budgets, instead of the benefit of society, have the preference of both parties which support the boundaries established by the state and the economic policy. The problem is, between a lot of budgets and a lot of games in which payments will be made, where the money will be removed, where this government applies the restrictions. Or, on the other hand, this government will be able to take measures for increasing the revenues in favor of the means of increasing the prosperity of the people's development. That's the key, too, Mr. President, because priorities and ends are fundamental. In view of the budgetary situation, it is essential that we know what the position of this Government is going to be, what the position of this Government is, what measures it plans to take in the face of the presumptive reduction in revenue that will be given in the 2016 financial year, due to the non-compliance with the tax collection forecasts already foreseen at the end of 2015. The sooner this government comes up with what it's going to do, the better for everyone. Do not wait for consummate facts, do not wait for the "no more remedy". They act with anticipation, reallocate and prioritize once and for all the policies that Basque citizens need. And that's what we want to know here today, Mr. President, in order not to comply with the tax reviews planned by your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. "Ming, as you know, sent direct information to the Chamber, the management of the year. You know, last year, that in the United States Security Council, we weren't going to complete our prediction, the beginning, and that's got a few reasons. On the one hand, the income of non-homers has undergone a great change, and is that a change of connection has caused some important offsets to be made by a historical territory to the general administration of the State. On the other hand, what was in the substance of the tax of the added value. You must note that the return of the added value has been made at the beginning of 2015, as the law says (before the end of this month). On the other hand, we must also consider the changes in which there have been changes during that year. There have been changes in the taxes of the commons during the year; as the usual regulation, we must apply it the same. When it reduces affections, it also affects the collection of money which takes place during the year. Then what we see is the effect of the added value in the energy market; at least it has been at the price of the middles. And in the collection of the tax-collected value that comes from that thunderstorm, and which has a great influence on the autonomous autonomism of our member, it has been affected by the most energetic companies. We have to focus on these points that are indicative and characteristic. That's where we got it. On the other hand, we have seen how the tax upon the revenue of physical persons is carried on: It worked. The tax of the added value has had the gaps. On the other hand, we need to see that he's been promoted to special taxes. On special taxes, both electricity and rhymes, there's been a promotion. That's where the consumer worked. The consul has worked in general in the nature of the addition of the value, and what happens is that this has happened in the modern markets, and this has been proved. It happened in general throughout the state. What you're saying when you look at it for 2016, we're going in a second month. For the second month, we now consider the amount of collections of money which are customary in our months; that is to say, continations in physical persons, payments in the month of special taxes, and the amount of payments that are paid every month. But many concepts are still missing in the conception of the given value. For instance, in the concept of adaptation (the concept of general consumption in the State, which we have a share, is an important concept) this does not occur. After four months, that's not the kind of collection. The other, in external relations, is a part of the tax of the added value in exports, a adaptation of the added value. It takes at least four months to keep incomes there. Three, the Baltian tribute. In the present case, we must consider that large subtraction in the usual company is made along the July (the return and payment from the company). When the three-parties are made in great companies, they don't begin until April; they're three years old. I mean, there's a lot of appreciative items that we haven't got in February yet. You, Mrs. Pindo, you said that well. We have to keep these indicators in mind. You have to see how the collection of money was two years ago, and how the collection was made a year ago, when you saw it in February, what was the result. The growth, a year ago, do you know how much it was in February? 7.5. Where did we stop? 2,4. How were we two years ago, in 2015? The growth in February was 0.8. Where was the annual fundraiser? At 4.8. That's why you're right, too. I'm coming here. It's not very significant what's happened in two months. Then you must consider this item. Then you mentioned the political opinion of your party in your speech about budget instability and endurance. We've met before, we've had a lot of arguing about it. I'm not getting involved with the budget again. We see what your opinion is. The amendment of the whole was there in the budgets, and I take it for an answer to the answer given by our party and this government (I in my performance and by the spokes of our parliamentary group, Gorosp and Mr. Egibar). We know what a course has been in this subject, and where, in different colors, they have been ordered, they have followed this policy. So I'm not going to go deep, because we've discussed stability, at least financial management and economic management. And this government has an engagement with the Chamber, and it is transparency and honesty. We have sent all the information to the Chamber: 2016. Of the yearly management, management of 2015, the probationary compensation we've made... That's it, ladies and gentlemen, all of it. We don't have anything to hide. This is our duty, to take care of you, and to follow the laws which you have granted, in this case, the laws of the budget, and to justify them. And that's what we're doing. Now, all these elements of which you have spoken, management, budget stability and finability, and how our tax system worked, and which period we are in, in 2015, 2016, we must consider that we are alone in the second month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u44	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u45	Thank you, ma'am. I meet the chief physician again when I address the president to an interpelation or a question. It seems that the President, instead of explaining the question of economy in this legislation, explains it better in a direct powerpoint, in a political actom. But we always get along with the chief physician; we know what we're talking about, there's no problem on my part. Mr. Chief, you've done the same thing to me again: you explained the situation to me, but none at all on the table. And again, to explain these little details of 2016, you've used the arguments you used in 2015, and you, mostly, are the representatives of the Big Slub. Then there's nothing new in there. Jarraitzen duzu esanez... Eta nik esan dut bi hylabetetako datuak say it, is a teenager nago zurekin. Nik horretan ez due to the smell of beastlakorik esango. Nik ere badakit zertaz ari naizen, bi hilabete say soilik, bathe... They don't mark anything good, Counselor. Nothing good! That we're talking about the forecast is 7%! That we're talking about that we're in a 1.2! And the worst thing is not that: the worst thing is that the economic data do not point at anything good, because we remain the same on the world economic issue, things do not just boil down (let's not say about the state, I prefer to go there already), and on the issue of fuels we are the same. Therefore, if the economic situation remains as complicated as it was when these forecasts were made in October, which were also not correct, as it was already shown in February, I still think and we continue to think that these forecasts are not correct, they are too triumphalistic. They are predictions made with too much joy, too much joy. Of course, then you will come again with the budget failure, but it is that in 2015 at the end, between good and quiet estate, it was more than 650 million who did not execute this government. That's not a technical failure, eh!, in my humble opinion. Three hundred, well, maybe, but 650 million technical failure? Allow me to doubt it. There have been orders there, and by this 2016 you are going to give orders, and you don't want to tell us. They don't want to tell us if they're going to give orders to departments to delay projects, slow them down or leave them for later. And that's what they have to say, where they're going to do things, or if they're finally going to choose to do what they had to do. Because with the deficit, I insist, you say again to me "We must comply with the Law of Stability", that I here have never said at any time that I do not agree to control the accounts and to do a strict control of the accounts. I never said that. Look, Mr. Advisor, I from an economic point of view might understand that the Finance Advisor on his service sheet says, "I've controlled the deficit," because it's his job. I understand that from an economic point of view. But that a lehendakari on his service sheet, as point number one puts deficit control I don't understand. I don't understand it, because that's a topic of yours, it's a topic of technicians, and it's not a subject of political objective. It cannot be a political objective to control the deficit, and I have said this by active, passive and Chinese Mandarin on this stand. It's a tool, and it can't be a political goal. And it seems that this government's primary political objective is to control the deficit. For that there is no need or need to manage: you do not spend, and joy. And so we're not going anywhere, counselor. So we're not going anywhere. They insist that it will already be done, they continue in their same attitude of waiting, of waiting. They wait for the world economy to improve, they wait for Europe to change its policy, they wait for the Madrid government to react... Pure inaction. They have done nothing to help change this country's fiscal policy, they have done nothing to negotiate the deficit. They have not, because on January 18, when you agreed, or supposedly agreed, you remained with the deficit target that Mr Montoro had imposed on the rest of the autonomous communities. Where is the agreement there, whether you had a choice to agree or not to agree, and other institutions have never been able to do that? You did, you were there, and what did you agree? The same as the rest of the autonomous communities! Dealing there? Where? There's no deal here. And that was January 18th. The budgets were approved here in December, and I held that out and they told me I was practically lying. I warned him: I wasn't awake. They agreed with the year already started, and so we're not going.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. Gashhousevary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pindo, the purpose of the defense line is agreed on for three years, we had agreed. What we've done is confirm for 2016 what we agreed before we put it in place, but we knew what would be the defense line from the end of 2014 to 2016. That's the way it is, because we agree to what is called the three. In the European budget plan, the so-called sonestre europeo, is three years old, and we knew it in December 2014. What we've done is confirm it this year, but we knew that. And you know all the explanation, or you must know it's in the budget. The budget has its financial and economic report and has the memory of the budget, and it has the way politics are based on this root. That's all explained, and that's what's made the budget. That is the explanation, and its meaning is that. About stability, what you said, you shouldn't be a political defense target. No, it's a political goal, the one that's in the heart of our funk, that guarantees our welfare model and promotes jobs in our economic circle. And that's what we're doing, in a difficult situation, in a remarkable retrospect. When we joined the government in 2012, we were in great reverse. The raw internal product was dropped at 2%; next year, 1,8%, and in the third year it went up %1,4, and last year, %2,8%. Look at the change. But we got into government very hard. And we have to act in politics and in our nation's art to guarantee the eucalypice pattern of well-being, which is what we're doing. And do our policies to create employment, and re-establish our economic fabric. That's what we're doing. And in the difficult situation, when we have no majority in the Chamber. We have arranged with the Social Party to accept the law of budget every year. It's been a difficult situation, but that's our responsibility, and all the reasons of the matter. And we give all account reasons because we play with transparency and honesty, sending information every month. You'll see. And we do not conceal anything from him, nor can anything conceal from him what the revenues are, what expenses are, or what they are. That's the pattern you've set up, gentlemen and ladies, and we're handling it, sending information, what our legislation says, our duty information. That's how we behave. And you have information about how the year 2016 is going and how 2015 is done because that's our duty. That's how we behave. And it's not all a joke to finish the compensations of our economic business with that unbalanced in the year. This contempt has certain limits, and public matters must be understood from the point of view of endurance. We have a duty in this generation, and it is that the succeeding generations, which will follow us when we have concluded this law, have also the power of making their own policy; those of the following law, and those of the succeeding successors, our sons, and our successors, and those of you, or of those who command. That's a responsibility. We must consider the important nature of patience in all matters, even in the economy. And that's why, what you're saying, politically defending isn't the goal... No, it's not political. Our aim in polyticity is to keep our pattern of well-being in the niceties of our people. But even the tools and tools are well handled from the budget point of view, a stability, but with the possibility, to hand them over to the next generation, to make politics themselves. And that's what we do. And that's been a hard job because we don't have a majority in the Chamber. And we have been obliged to do it humbly, by obtaining bargains with those who have desired it. And we're grateful to the Socialist Party that he's also managed his political game in the budget for deals. That's what we're dealing with: true, with transparency, seriousness, and our regulations. And that's what we do from tickets and expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. The seventh point on the theme list: "Apology, Gorka Maneiro Labay's Misto-Felic member of the U.UPyD team made for the president, about the social discussion of the nation's "Euscan Power-Punctions of January 26th, 201616th General Gomendium, and the measures of the Eucharist on the future side of this serious problem." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u49	Thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, Mr Councillor, members of the Government, I would like to convey to you briefly the very interesting general recommendation of the Ararteko of 26 January 2016 "Bases for the social debate on energy poverty in the Basque Country". And it is being moved now, in spring, so that the Basque Government can design a comprehensive strategy against energy poverty in time. Because that is precisely what we need, a global strategy that fights energy poverty, rather than putting in place various patches that try to cope with this scourge. "In the middle of the 21st century there are more and more people in Euskadi who face serious difficulties in maintaining an adequate temperature in their home during the cold months." Thus begins the Ararteko's general recommendation. In particular, more than 10% of the population. The 2014 Social Needs Survey on Poverty, a paper prepared by the Department of Employment and Social Policy of the Basque Government to analyse the various indicators of poverty and lack of well-being in the Basque Autonomous Community, incorporates two data that have been significantly increased in the period 2008-2012: The number of people who have problems keeping their home at an adequate temperature during the cold months has reached 235,526 in 2014, when it did not reach 90,000 in 2008. On the other hand, in 2014 the population affected by cuts in the supply of energy services at home, including water, light or telephone, was 38,255 people, compared to 35,191 in 2008. This indicator is known as energy poverty. Mainly it appears as a consequence of the lack of sufficient economic resources, but it can also be the result of poor objective housing conditions or the excessive price of energy resources. The fight against energy poverty is a social priority that must be assessed from all walks of life. The aim is to implement specific measures and actions to accompany existing public policies and social initiatives, with the aim of reducing and alleviating the effects of this phenomenon, which will affect more than 200,000 Basques and Basques this coming winter. Energy poverty is characterized in particular by a shortage of economic resources for people to access basic energy standards in their homes. Energy is an essential and indispensable common good, enabling citizens to live a dignified life and having an instrumental nature in effectively guaranteeing the right to adequate housing. People's difficulty in accessing an adequate energy supply is not a new phenomenon in our environment. Countries such as the United Kingdom, Ireland or Belgium are addressing this specific phenomenon with the aim of implementing specific measures for its containment. The specific elements of this phenomenon take into account that the precariousness of energy resources is not only related to the economic situation of people. The need for energy is closely linked to the objective conditions of households, also to the conditions of the market for the provision of energy services. Thus, energy poverty does not only affect people with lower incomes, but can extend its effects to other groups. Factors that have an impact: the increase in the energy bill, the economic crisis and the reduction of people's income, the increase in domestic energy consumption (the reality is that our society today requires certain energy services to reach the right standards of well-being), the energy obsolescence of the building and housing stock, the opportunity for renewable energy and decentralised energy management, and obviously social policies aimed at paying the energy bill. There are, therefore, many elements that affect this issue. What are the consequences of energy poverty? And I want to summarize them, because of this, of course, we could talk long and stretched out. Of course, health effects, effects on quality of life and well-being, effects especially on the most vulnerable consumers (these people are deprived of these energy services of gas or electricity until they are able to pay the arrears), also effects on the environment. In short, this phenomenon known as energy poverty requires a specific response, through a concrete action plan to try to prevent it and mitigate its concrete effects. Therefore, a concrete action plan. An important step towards taking account of this energy problem has been taken by the European Union through the adoption of a series of Community directives aimed at regulating the energy sector and promoting energy saving and efficiency measures, which expressly consider the phenomenon of energy poverty. I won't stop at them. The Government of Spain has also taken a number of measures, all of which, in any case, are insufficient. In our autonomous community, until a few years ago, energy poverty has been a relatively unknown phenomenon; however, in recent years, energy poverty has become more important. Note what Ararteko says in his recommendation: "Despite this, to date, Basque public administrations have not been able to develop a specific global strategy to address energy poverty." And this is precisely what we have come to ask of them: a specific global strategy. Not patch, not loose measures, but a global strategy to tackle this phenomenon. We can, however, refer to a series of structural measures which have certainly been taken to alleviate or prevent this phenomenon, as well as other more recent measures to date to respond specifically to energy poverty in Euskadi. Because things have been done in recent times: structural measures to alleviate energy poverty within social policies; structural measures to prevent energy poverty through policies to rehabilitate existing buildings; structural measures to prevent energy poverty through policies to inform and advise energy consumers, and other direct measures to alleviate the effects of energy poverty. Both the Basque Parliament and the Basque Government have agreed on a number of economic initiatives and measures to try to alleviate this phenomenon in a specific way. Here are the initiatives adopted in this House demanding action from this government. However, although action has been taken by this Government, by this House, and also by certain municipalities, these measures are clearly insufficient, and so what I am asking you for is basically a comprehensive strategy to deal with this phenomenon, because what has been done so far has been clearly insufficient. I believe that this government has acted late and badly, has not had a comprehensive strategy, has acted at the impulse of the demands made by this Parliament, there have been delays in the payment of certain aid, and I believe that insensitivity and conformism have prevailed, as if this was a minor matter. What I want to ask you, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Councilman, is what this government is going to do in the future to tackle energy poverty in Euskadi. Some things have already been done in recent times, but they have been decisions, let's say, isolated, unrelated to each other. What I ask you is whether you in particular have read this recommendation of the Ararteko, and whether you consider that the measures it proposes can be taken into account by this Government with a fundamental objective, and that there is no energy poverty in Euskadi, that we all be able to implement a comprehensive strategy to deal with this phenomenon. It is April, we have time, we can do it, but obviously we need a comprehensive strategy and the commitment of this Government or the Government to come soon. We raise this because it seems to us to be an extremely important matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u50	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u51	The President, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. Before you begin, Mr. Maniro, I wish to congratulate you on the news of your appointment. Returning to the question, Maniro, the concern you have, and also that which appears at the foundation of the recommendation made by the interrogator, we also have in the section. The general recommendation of the interrogator is based on the data from the statistics made by the organ in our department. Therefore, before we knew him, we ourselves, 2012 to 2014, found that in the development of the years he investigates the reports, there is an increase in the factors that could lead to poverty and preventiveness. And not happy. No one can be happy to see that thing. There's a encycloperation review that's called myrgetic poverty. It is one of the modulo-orducts that study the poverty and the difference of the Social Needs. I would like to mention this, that we can, after all, set up programmes to prevent extreme poverty. And they have been different programs, because they will serve to face the absence of families in general. And, on the contrary, those who are able to prepare themselves to resist poverty in general, will also be useful to the extreme poverty. This is reflected in the report of the Social Needs Survey and also in the general recommendation of the Ararteko, as you mentioned, Mr Maneiro. Both reports point out that the income guarantee income system, housing benefits and social emergency aid is also having a very positive impact, which prevents the most serious expressions of poverty in many cases. Moreover, the report of the Ararteko recommendation refers to this protection system as a structural measure to alleviate energy poverty within social policies. While comprehensively addressing poverty situations, we have also been developing a number of specific energy poverty initiatives to which this inquiry refers. These specific measures have been launched precisely following – as you have reminded us – two parliamentary mandates adopted in this House. In fulfilment of these parliamentary mandates, the Department of Employment and Social Policy has endeavoured to enable measures to ensure that no citizen of Euskadi who is in a demonstrable situation of not being able to meet his bills, especially in times of increased demand, is interrupted by the supply of electricity, gas or water, especially heating. The 2015 budget had a budget of 200,000 euros (value, insufficient); that of 2016, 400,000 euros to deal with situations of energy poverty. To address these situations, and with the aim of alleviating the most immediate needs of families in vulnerable situations or at risk of exclusion, to also support families affected by the crisis, as an economic breath, and to detect these other needs and try to solve them, in 2015 we signed an agreement between the Red Cross and the Basque Government, and in order to speed up the processing of the departure (double that of 2015 in 2016), instead of doing so through an agreement, which took longer than expected, and not because of our fault, it will be vegetated through an order of the adviser, which can be signed as quickly as possible. In this agreement with the Red Cross, the terms of collaboration were laid down, and how the aid was to be made available to the families concerned. Red Cross, depending on the assessment done individually, would provide families, in addition to checks, supplies and accompaniments for the acquisition of skills, with management workshops and household savings, which also, sometimes, we lack these skills. I have to mention, because it is important, that following the parliamentary mandate, once again, the Department of Employment and Social Policy contacted the main energy companies, and we held meetings with the three most important (Iberdrola, Endesa and Union Fenosa) that supply electricity and gas to our families. The result of these meetings I think I can describe it as good, very good, hopeful, as these three companies committed themselves to four things. First, they were in favour of reaching agreements and renegotiating debts with families. Secondly, they expressed their willingness to paralyse the processes of suspension of electricity and gas supply, if they had occurred. Thirdly, they undertook to restore the supply in the event that it had already been suspended, obviously out of default, before receiving the communication from the Red Cross. And in addition, fourth and last place, they undertook to advise, inform and train the Red Cross on different aspects, so that families would be informed. Iberdrola has also signed a direct agreement with the Red Cross to expedite and facilitate the way in which social service users are paid for debts generated by the supply of electricity and gas. To address the issue of energy poverty, we need to take into account a broader perspective than that of social policies, as the Ararteko in his recommendation rightly states. That is why in this inquiry I will also explain to you the measures that we have been developing from the housing area. In Ararteko's recommendation, both in the analysis of the situation, in the principles to be taken into account in defining measures against energy poverty, and also in the proposed measures, reference is made to improving the energy efficiency of housing. In this area we have been developing since 2013 the Renove Rehabilitation Plan, in which, in two of its five lines of action, the programme of assistance to private individuals and communities of owners for the rehabilitation of buildings and housing, and the programme of aid for the efficient rehabilitation of housing, for the elaboration of projects of intervention in the built heritage, are addressed. In the programme of aid to private individuals and communities of owners, two are protected actions: on the one hand, the structural adaptation of living conditions; on the other hand, intervention in the thermal envelope, which is important for efficiency. In the programme of aid for efficient rehabilitation, one of the measures which is protected is precisely that of energy reduction, through the envelope in thermal production plants, in order to obtain, at least, an energy certification C. In addition to our aid programmes, we must add the new technical inspection of buildings, which also, I say (repeat, too), mentions the Ararteko. This inspection was already regulated by Decree 241/2013. The ITE is an instrument that, among other things, allows, on the one hand, to know the actual conservation situation of the entire building, and secondly – and this is what we specifically refer to in this case – to guarantee the energy efficiency of the house. Our buildings are required to have ITE when they turn 50, or when rehabilitation aid, energy efficiency and accessibility are requested. Our housing park, as you know, Mr. Maneiro, is mature. He is, in many cases, over fifty years old. These ITEs have to be made, and their implementation is the competence of the municipalities. From the department we are strongly insisting, seriously, that we start to demand ITE in each of the municipalities, because we know that this is also good for saving households, for saving energy. I admit we've still got a lot to do. Yes, Mr. Maniro, no doubt. But by all these explanations, I think we may say that we are all on the track marked by the Arla in his recommandation. We're working. Not happy, in fact, but they're going to go, and I think we'll keep it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u53	Yes, thank you, counselor. A number of measures have been taken in recent times, of course, but I believe that they are measures that are taken in a dispersed or individualised way, rather than designing, to implement a comprehensive strategy on the issue. I do not know if you consider that this Government has a perfectly designed global strategy to implement and address energy poverty. I would like to be able to respond to this: if there is indeed a global strategy, which is what is needed to cope with this scourge and that is what Ararteko himself is asking. Because all these measures are related, and there are many factors that affect the existence of energy poverty: increasing energy bills, reducing people's incomes, increasing energy consumption, building and housing stock, renewable energy and energy management, and finally social policies. Sometimes we focus only on this last point, but all this has an impact. And the measures that are put in place must be consistent with each other, and I believe that all of them should be part of that overall strategy. The Ararteko makes it clear: "... to date, Basque public administrations have not been able to develop a specific global strategy to address energy poverty." Perhaps because it is a new phenomenon, perhaps because it is difficult to implement all these measures, perhaps because of the insensitivity of this Government or because of the lack of coordination of the different institutions, but it is a reality that much remains to be done, and you yourself have acknowledged it. Look at the principles set out by Ararteko to take into account in the action plans against energy poverty: the principle of speciality in the fight against energy poverty, the principle of intervention in favour of vulnerable groups, the principle of guarantee of access to basic or vital energy supplies for citizens, the principle of prevention of energy exclusion, the principle of saving and reducing consumption, the principle of information on energy saving measures (public authorities must put in place sufficient means to ensure an adequate system of information on real consumption, the modalities of power contracts most suitable for each customer, and the appropriate measures for reducing energy consumption by changing habits, replacing poorly efficient household appliances and elements), the principle of sustainability of measures, the principle of public intervention, the principle of social consultation, the principle of citizen participation. All of them very interesting. This recommendation by Ararteko is very interesting, and points out everything that should be done on this issue, and sets out a number of measures in different areas. For example, in the area of regulation of the energy sector and of the most vulnerable consumers, it proposes the establishment of a plan to combat energy poverty in the Basque Country, and the definition of the vulnerable energy consumer, likely to suffer from energy poverty. And measures also aimed at protecting the most vulnerable energy consumer, such as ensuring the supply of energy to the most vulnerable groups, or the right to adequate information from the perspective of the most vulnerable energy consumer. And a series of measures to improve energy efficiency in households and buildings affected by energy poverty, such as conducting energy audits for the most vulnerable clients. Or the study of the energy efficiency of the public protective housing stock, or the aid for energy rehabilitation for the most vulnerable groups. And a series of social measures also to alleviate the effects of energy poverty. In other words, a series of measures within different areas, all of which would form the overall strategy that we will be asking the Government to present in the coming weeks, to address energy poverty. But a global strategy is needed. There is no need for a political party to include a budget of EUR 200,000, that is not the case. It is about designing and implementing a global strategy to address energy poverty. We already know a lot about this, we know what has been done, we know what remains to be done, we know what measures are needed. The government has to put itself to it, this government to date, Mr Lehendakari, and the one that comes next.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u54	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u55	Thank you, ma'am. Let me stress, Mr Maneiro, the premise that situations of exclusion and poverty need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, and we must recognise that, while the income guarantee system is improving, it is proving effective (certainly never fully effective, but structurally effective) to deal with situations of poverty in thousands of Basque families, and that fortunately this allows energy poverty in many of these families not to appear as such. I also insist that, without losing sight of this comprehensive perspective, specific measures are being put in place to address energy poverty, either through social policy measures or through housing policies. I remind you: agreement signed with the Red Cross, in which economic resources are provided to families, and very importantly also organizational resources, such as information and the development of domestic management skills, which are so lacking for many of us, those who need energy savings and those who need to make energy savings even if we do not need it economically. Only with this agreement would it agree with several of the ten principles recommended by Ararteko and which you quote, to take into account when drawing up plans against energy poverty. In addition, this convention could be framed in section 4.2 of that general recommendation, on measures to protect the most vulnerable energy consumer, and section 4.4, on social measures to alleviate the effects of energy poverty. Nor do we forget the awareness-raising and awareness-raising work that has been carried out with companies in the sector. I'll give you some data, Mr. Maneiro. As regards housing progress, the Renove Rehabilitation Plan so far, and since 2013, through the aid programme 1 and 4 specifically, has allocated EUR 18,231,570 for energy efficiency improvements, of which 2,655 housing has benefited. In 2016 alone (the other figures were from 2013 to 2015), 8.1 million euros will be allocated, so we hope that almost a thousand homes will benefit. I don't like it because we shouldn't be self-complacent ever, ever, but I have to admit that we have a good basis. The Ararteko in its recommendation proposes four blocks of measures. With the measures put in place so far, I believe that we can say that we have an important basis to be able to deepen the prevention of the situation of energy poverty in particular, and of situations of poverty in general. We still have a way to go: we have to continue collaborating with social entities, raising awareness of the energy sector, and rehabilitating our built-up park with energy efficiency criteria. You insist, Mr. Maneiro, on a global strategy. Without a doubt, if this Parliament asks the Government to do so, as it cannot be otherwise, and in addition by doing the will of Parliament, the Government will draft, write, order the measures it is taking on energy measures and on energy poverty in particular, but I have to tell you that the measures taken by the Government are coherent, which are taken from the same department almost all of them, but not all of them (Employment, Social Policies, Housing, GIR therefore too). That they're not written in a global way? Okay. I believe that in this case, if there is a parliamentary mandate to collect them formally, it will be done. The important thing is to do things, not write them. It is far more important that our families are really protected from energy poverty, that this Parliament or this Government has formally drafted a strategy. We will, of course, if this Parliament so requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u56	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "Earto Prinet St. Vicente Basque Sociialists made for the president, the prospect of collecting money which Finnen's Basque Council has established." Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u57	President. Lehendakari, you will recall that in February I asked you a question about the worsening economy. There were elements, signs, data at the international level, also at the national level, also at the level of Euskadi, pointing to a worsening of the economy, which still persists. Today the question is related to that drop in collection in the first two months of the year, which, although it has already been questioned here and has given a series of data or justifications to tell why this is happening, I do in a different sense. I do not want to use it as a bold weapon, but as a concern arising from a commitment and responsibility or co-responsibility that we have with the institutional functioning and also with the economic and social policy of this country. We are involved in budgetary policy and in many of the political objectives that this budgetary policy entails, and therefore the collection affects the possibility of these objectives being developed. In fact, today we have also seen another fact, in which it is stated that in 2015 both investment and economic development have been reduced in a very important way, and, obviously, reducing economic development and investment development, the collection has to be resented. I recall some statements by Mr.Gatzagaetxebarria – which were attributed to him, are published – which spoke of "Well, let's wait for the month of April, and in April, if necessary, we will talk about cuts with the administrations". We do not want to get to the cuts, because our political commitment is not with the cuts, it is with economic development, employment, social policies, public services, and for that we need money, we need collection. And, just as a couple of months ago I was asking you what measures you are thinking of for a worsening of the economy, today I have to ask you what measures you are thinking of to correct this downward trend in collection. Because self-government allows us to make policies: it allows us to make policies in employment, in direct employment and in induced employment; it allows us to make policies in the correction of taxation, in the fight against tax fraud, in economic development, in the development of consumption. There is an extraordinary political capacity, and in view of this one cannot remain impassable and one cannot be expectant only of the data. I therefore invite you to allow us here today to share the concerns, the forecasts you have in this regard, on this worsening of the economy and on this fall in the collection that affects the development of public policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u58	Thank you, Mr Price. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u59	Thank you, Mr Price. First of all, I have to correct you in a field. You have mentioned that in your initiative we have a negative collection, and we have no negative collection, and the funding is positive. You put it in your initiative that the collection is negative, it's at 1.8. Maybe it's because there was a mistake in writing, but that's important to say: We're not in the negative collection, as we're told. Two, you said economic growth. What happens in economic growth is that in the international economy there is a discount, and there are multiple elements there, and we don't have time to study that. If you read the Eascal economy report that we've been working for 15 days, we can explain what happened in 2015 and what's going on in 2016. When we entered the government, we were in a notorious retreat, 2% of which fell crude internal product, which next year was 1,8%. How negative we were there! Then we went into growth: 1,4,14% of the year, and %2,8%. The growths are there, important, and that's what we've done with you, taking the budgets of the past three years, and we've also made a three-year-old deal for the economy's recovery and the job, with you, the Social Party. And in the former speech also, I have said that this is a matter of responsibility to your party. We agree in this, and agreed to this between the two parties. That's where we put the measures on the policy of the tax. So that's what we're playing at. And besides, we are in a very serious position, because our model has been to guarantee the pattern of well-being; the third to direct our educational system, and the principal services, as well as those of the Border and Justice. And then, if you see how public policies have been directed in the field of employment (and in every respect, even in the promotement of a hundred economics), we act on it. Out of a notorious retreat and in a minority at Parliament. That has also been difficult, a great difficulty, but we've played with it. And we made a three-year deal with you. And we're just filling up with difficulties. Then we have a deal this year too. And the budget, as an instrument, is important in economic politics. It's important, because of what I said: Because we've been talking about the budget, what you've agreed to, how to promote the eucalypice model and the job, to keep it in a positive force and evolution. That's what we're doing. And from a point of view: for they have a right to make their own politics, as we have had. That's what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u61	Mr. Gatzagaetxebarria, politics isn't about telling what's going on. To do politics is to design a goal and try to achieve it. It is to turn what is a concern into something that is a solution. And, therefore, I am asking you not to tell me whether we have participated in the budgets or to make a notarial record of the latest events, because this is already done, but what I am telling you is what measures your Government is going to take. What measures will be taken in the face of the worsening economy that disrupts the plans that were originally proposed, and what measures will be taken in the face of the fall in collection. I understand that at the moment you are putting yourself in a situation of a certain provisionality, because, of course, to mix the budgetary objective with early elections, to mix them with an inability to make an expenditure on economic development or investment, because the truth is that it generates a lot of uncertainty about the political capacity and political will of this government. But, of course, this is what I'm asking for an answer to. I'm telling you what you're going to do to correct all this that weighs negatively on public policies. Tell me about it! Don't talk to me...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Kareli Price. Thank you, Mr Pricee... [[Berber]] Mr. Gashhousevary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Price, what I told you. If you don't want to understand, don't understand, but what I'm saying: budget tools and canvassions to promote and to ensure the pattern of well-being. That's what's agreed with you. And I've told you what kind of a policy we're doing, and that we're playing in the budget. Klaro, we're a small town, but that's what we're doing. And we have agreed with you. Look, I'll tell you what I mean. You know what the tax is in the state? To make financial investments, to make financial investments? There 28% and here's %1. The tax margins, the capitals, the IRPF? Two points here, more than in the state. That's what we agreed with you. That's what gives us resources to make politics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u64	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, that Diana Carolina, the Gold Herrera, the member of the EH team, was made to the president about the co-workership for development." Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u65	Yes, ma'am. I ask for granted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u66	In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u67	Madam of the Parliament. Your Lady Gold, yes, our commitment to human development is very clear and precise. I think that's what we've been saying for years. And as far as we are concerned, and as far as we can, we are trying to keep the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u69	Mr Lehendakari, despite your short answer, I will tell you that this legislature has been characterised by absolute failure in cooperation policies. And it's not that this group also tells you, it's not that Euskal Herria Bildu tells you. It is also said by the Euskadi NGO Coordinator, who brings together more than seventy non-governmental organizations. And I say this to you because you have made the greatest cuts in the history of cooperation over the course of this term. We have reached 2002 levels, Mr Lehendakari. A few days ago we had in front of this House a concentration of the coordinator herself, with Pinocchio's nostrils representing the lies of his Government and with a motto entitled "Speaking". Because the many parliamentary mandates that have been adopted in this House, including proposals such as the general guidelines brought by this government with the deception of saying that they were already guaranteed in the budgets, have not been true. It was false, Mr. Lehendakari. This legislature has been characterized by non-compliance with plans such as the Master Plan for Cooperation, both in content and in resources. In this budgetary period they have allocated or are going to allocate 43 million euros, of the 50 that this House, by majority, with the government's own proposal in the Cooperation Plan, had planned for this budgetary period. But we also fool people, because, of course, we are talking about that 4 million euros has been raised, this budget has been increased, but let's tell the truth to the citizen: let's say that, of those 43 million euros, for the period 2016 there are only 8 million euros, because the rest, ladies and gentlemen, is committed from previous years. That is to say, they have to increase to pay the debts of periods of previous years, and for this year there are 8 million, which will lead to the Basque Cooperation Agency itself not being able to call for projects for this period. It's absolutely embarrassing. With regard to cooperation, the policy of this Government has been a failure. And it is necessary to make this clear and to make it very clear that, in the face of this assessment of the thousand days of government that he was doing in recent days, which talked about 90% of the budget execution, both in this area and in many others, we can include cooperation within this 90%, with a plan that they have not fulfilled but which has served them to talk about the goodness of government policies in terms of cooperation. They have also adopted a report that has been presented by the University of the Basque Country, which you have asked for, of coherence in development policies, that this report should be entitled "Report of Policy Incoherence for Development" – said in this House by those who have presented the report – because of the many inconsistencies that all areas of this Government have had in terms of cooperation, because of the policies that have contributed precisely to the fact that sustainable human development does not go the way it should go, in line with the values that have characterized decentralised Basque cooperation, Mr Urkullu. I ask you, please, to be honest. For once in your life, admit that in the area of cooperation you have made many mistakes in this legislature, and that precisely this legislature is not going to be characterized by the compliance with the Basque Law of Cooperation, as a starting point that 0.7% which establishes the law, which has been repeatedly breached, but that we are now at absolutely embarrassing levels, inferior to other periods, as it may be 2012, when we had 0.52%, which was not what established the law but was approaching. But you have taken care to put an end to cooperation policies. Paulatinately, but get rid of them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Is keeping the Euskal Development Act a real priority for the Euskal Worker? That was the question. We're working on development. It's going to be a piece of work for the Red Beetle. And with our decisions, we show that this is how it works, even though you picture a new picture. On this Wednesday, around the consistency of the pretty developments you mentioned, we've arranged an international exhibition and I'll tell you what I said there. One, we know there are difficulties and we don't hide them. Confession. Two, during the last three years, our priority has been to keep all our co-working projects, even though we would like to do more. Three, it's Euskakia, the community that invests most. However, not as much as we wanted, and I publicly said that last Wednesday the day before yesterday. You, of course, find it always insufficient to do what we can in the area of development cooperation and what may also be the literally compliance with the Basque Cooperation Act. We believe that, in any case, we are acting. And you'll have to recognize an undisputed reality. First of all, this government does not conceal the truth, we have not hidden the budgetary difficulties that we have also had to face in the area of cooperation, during each budget year in this legislature. Secondly, despite the difficulties, this Government committed itself to keeping all cooperation programmes under way, and we have done so. And thirdly, despite these difficulties, this Government committed itself to increasing annual budget allocations for cooperation, and we have done so. And not to the extent of everything you want, honestly it is, but it is above the overall budget increase. And at a time when decentralised cooperation in the State is being dismantled it will have to recognize a reality: Euskadi represents 5% of the population of the State, and 35% of the resources allocated to decentralized cooperation in the State belong to Euskadi. She talks to me about the coordinator, to whom I respect, but I also believe that the Basque Development Cooperation Council, where all these issues have been raised, deserves recognition. Euskati has shown that it's a solid society. We know there are difficulties, yes, and we don't hide them. Our priority has been to keep all the coworkers' projects for three years. And I want to stress that it's Euskakia, on the whole, the community that invests most. In fact, one of the three euros that invest in disorganized co-workers in the State invests in Euskadin. Therefore, Mrs Urrea, our commitment to development cooperation is clear. We are demonstrating it year by year, we are putting all our capacity forward in law enforcement, depending on our possibilities. Euskadi is a solidarity society, and in recent years a great effort is also being made in the policies of solidarity and internal cohesion (internal cohesion) for all people living in this country in the context of crises that are also affecting our society. And I would like to emphasize that the Euskadi cooperation policy is also introducing a fundamental element, in my view: the coherence of development policies that include all areas of government. This is the commitment: realism, and future sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, a member of Laura Garrido Körr of the Basque Group, a member of the President's Department of Health, about the position of the Euskating MUD in front of the judicial announcements of the Medical Department." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. The order of the Court of Instruction No. 3 of Bilbao indicates the existence of sufficient evidence to charge a number of former senior officials of the Department of Health with five offences in the recruitment of various health services from the Government of Ibarretxe. This led to a commission of inquiry, where it was concluded that there were repeated and continuous irregularities in the time that affected procurement processes without advertising or competition, how prices were increased or tariff increases applied..., to benefit the same companies, despite the continuous warnings of illegality. As an ad hoc company (Management of Health Services XXI) was set up for the management of waiting lists, regardless of the legally established procedure (by the way, authorization declared null and void), and how economic damage occurred. The above-mentioned instructional order can be said to be in the same line. It speaks of such authorization procedure, how there was repeated pressure on officials, how the authorization was granted and issued on the same day as it was requested, how it was declared null and void, and how it was hidden and not included in any record. How there is a profit and economic benefit for those investigated, how this company and those investigated in public tenders were favored, who should not have received those high amounts of public funds that did not have to have been produced, as I said, by increasing the amounts and tariffs, by violating advertising and competition. What is striking and absolutely unusual, Mr Lehendakari, is that the current councillor, Mr Darpón, and other former senior officials of the Department of Health, namely seventeen, among whom also Mr Viñegra, currently vice-counselor, signed with absolute prepotence, insulting and interfering in the work of this Parliament, above good and evil, a writing in which accusations and irregularities were denied. We are talking in passing about the leaks to which you have referred, but it is a writing, of course, that is clearly intruding and insulting the work that this Parliament was doing in a committee of inquiry. He's talking about dirtying himself at all costs to the previous team, talking about unfounded and unjustified accusations... He spoke, and wondered who signed that writing, including Mr. Darpón and Mr. Vignegra, that what was hidden "behind the nauseous accusations of corruption that had been poured upon us without any justification." The Basque Government in the past parliamentary term was personified, and the current Government seems to have maintained and is going to retain the character. And the lehendakari this morning told us that he decides to keep the character in order to defend the interest of the Basque Government above any opinion. You will understand, Mr President-in-Office, that we believe that there is a clear contradiction, because the views expressed in this manifesto, which are absolutely lacking in the minimum ethical rigour, were expressed, among other things, by the current Health Adviser and the Vice-Adviser, members of your Government, who you say is going to defend the general interest of the Basques. He would therefore take it that we asked him what criterion the Government was going to take to remedy the damage caused by that precedent, that backpack that his current adviser had endorsed the irregular proceedings in that letter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u74	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, I answer you directly, above the circumstances of parliamentary committees of previous legislatures and what could be manifestations that could be shed on these issues at the moment. The context. The Basque Government understands that it must maintain its current position on the part of the case, in accordance with the parliamentary mandate that required it. In any event, the actions taken by the Government in this field will be in accordance with the legal technique and will take place at the appropriate procedural time. It is therefore not appropriate, Mrs Garrido, to make valiant remarks, for the sake of fundamental respect for the fundamental rights of individuals. Mrs. Garrido, let's go to justice. Let's let the courts act. As we repeatedly listened to the leaders of her own party, the last vice-president of the Spanish Government, Mrs. Soraya Sáez de Santamaría (yet I heard her last Friday), let us act in justice. This is what it is to declare an individual with institutional responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u77	Mr. Lehendakari, the facts are as they are. But how are you going to lead, and the government that presides, the prosecution in this case, when you have among your ranks a counselor who in his day signed a manifesto supporting the investigated persons without cracks and denying any kind of irregularity, when today we have an instructional document that says that there are indications to charge the investigated persons with five crimes? You will understand that we have reasonable and justified doubts about the lack of credibility of your Government in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u78	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, as Lehendakari I reiterate the Government's view in this case: we are going to remain in character in the case in defence of the general interest, and we are going to let justice act in order for it to deliver a verdict. A verdict that is on the case in question; not a verdict on what they might or might not have said in previous legislatures on the functioning of a parliamentary commission of inquiry. And, depending on the verdict of the judicial process, we will act accordingly. I'm going to explain something you already know, and you've made reference to it. The judicial order of 3 March 2016, to which you referred in this last intervention, is not an indictment. It's not an accusatory car. It is not a judicial charge, reserved in its case for a later time, but it is strictly the result of the investigation. And in any case, Mrs. Garrido, I repeat, all I ask is consistency. I ask you to apply what you demand for yourself. Let us leave justice to action, and let us flee from parallel political trials. Let's run away from them, Mrs. Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, "Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made to the President, to show him that the dispersal of the prisoners has been effective." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President took part in a forum of Madrid, and there, as the media declared, the dispersal said that it helped to end once and for all, but not the absence of violence. From that statement, I take two ideas. One of them is from your point of view that dispersion was effective and not a separation, but because you mentioned rôn because it served as a part of the patriotic left to make use of it. I have always thought that the treatment of prisoners, or a policy of prison, beyond other interests, other ends, or political calculations, concerns the interest of the prisoner and the human rights of the prisoner, but that is not, as seems to be your opinion. Your opinion is that prison policy has a function, you have a purpose. You read an irlitarist, and watch out! because that's the same reading PP. I've always thought that dispersion is breaking human rights and causing suffering. And so it was in the decisions which have been made in this legislature. The last June of 2014, where it is said that the dissolution of the prisoners and of the human rights is the dissolution of the prisoners, and therefore we demand an end. But I don't think this is your opinion, Mr. President, your opinion or view of Madrid, not of this legislature. Can you tell me what your attitude is?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u82	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, to know the president's opinion, it's not necessary to go to Madrid and make a statement about it, to twist and read evil. And I don't say it from you. You mentioned some media and I felt the way what I've been saying is reflected in some media. So let's not confuse what I said about dispersal and what I didn't say. Don't confuse them with distance and dispersion, one doesn't have to see the other. It's written in the president and the government and it hasn't changed. Read the proposal straight on the road and the conference program. That's my bet. And what really harms the family is the policy of dispersal is that which has no meaning. And I'll give you an example, see if you can understand better this way. All prisoners gathered together in Canary Irl, all in a prison, the dispersal ceases. That's what we'd do, and the family problem would increase. Not because the dispersion, the dispersion, is over, because we put them all in a prison, but because of the separation. The key, then, is to end the dispersal policy. And, as I said, our opinion is written. We are opposed to the policy of restraining prisoners into the prisons of our several communities. From this road both the politics and the dispersal are ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u85	Yeah. Mr. President, I don't take the interpretations that appear in a media, because they may be bad or malicious, but I want to interpret your words and I want to know them. Esaten didazu ez nahasteko dispersioa eta urruntzea, and I think that precisely what you have done is, in a way, to say that dispersion is a good idea, because it can bring some kind of goals, objectives that have nothing to do with those that pursue the interest of the prisoner, but you also talk about remoteness. And that's one thing I'm worried about, and that's why I want to question you, too. According to you, prisoners should not be more than four hundred or five hundred kilometres from their place of origin. This is also something that you seem to be saying, and I see that this is not the position that this Parliament has or has adopted. I think that's the position the PNV had when it lit, when it conceived, when it proposed the dispersion policy, and I think it went to Madrid precisely to justify or to expose that position. Something that tells me a lot about your critical view of the PNV past as well. According to your occurrence of the four hundred or five hundred kilometers, for you it would be wrong for a Basque prisoner to be in Herrera de la Mancha, i.e., Real City, but it would be good for him to be in Ocaña, Toledo; it would be wrong, because it is beyond that limit that you place of the five hundred kilometers, in Castellón, but it would be good for him to be in Teruel; it would be bad in Lugo, but it would be good for him to be in León. And I want to ask you whether the proposal made by the PNV or the Basque Government to Basque prisoners and their families is an approach in Toledo, Teruel or León. I have allowed myself to review one fact: of the sixteen relatives who have died for this policy, thirteen of them have done so less than five hundred kilometers from their home. That is, with his proposal three lives would have been saved, but thirteen more deaths would have been committed. And I ask you if you take this responsibility. Dispersion is an arbitrary measure that violates human rights, and the proposal that you seem to have explained in Madrid is arbitrary and violates human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u86	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Arzuaga, in order to understand us on this issue, I strongly ask you not to retort what I could have said in Madrid, that I did not go to say what you said I went to say. And I ask you to attend to what I said in my first speech. Look, in this Basque Parliament since 1997, and it is not my turn to talk about the four hundred or five hundred kilometres, but a plan for bringing prisoners closer together was adopted in 1997. At that time the prisoner quota was one, today it is another. At that time the capacity of the Basque prisons was one, today it is another different according to the quota of prisoners. That plan advocates bringing prisoners closer to the prisons closest to their place of residence, and I referred to that, in relation to when we are also talking about political parties in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country about bringing prisoners closer to the prisons closest to their place of origin or residence. We have also always advocated the need for prisoners to have guaranteed their capacity to make decisions, individually and freely, in order to gain access to prison benefits and promote reintegration. And this is precisely what now, twenty years later, the thirty-five accused have admitted in the summary of the national table of Segura, for example. It is you who have changed your mind. I haven't changed my mind. The Government continues to defend the same thing that is written in the proposal Zuzen Bidean and the programme Hitzeman, and I quote it literally: "Articulate a process of bringing prisoners and prisoners closer to their places of residence because this provides for prison legislation in article 12.1 of the law...". And I continue: "There is no legal impediment to their transfer to prisons in the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre... It would constitute a measure of humanity towards the families of prisoners and would contribute decisively to the normalization of coexistence." This is our opinion and it hasn't changed. 'Esunk' always defended their sentence in the prisons that are most close to families.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the "Jon Azkue Manterola of the Basque Socialists" to the president, the plans for economic and social dynamization of the region affected by the crisis of steel." Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u89	Good morning. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, I have to ask Brussels and Madrid to react to the crisis of steel. It is a demand of this Chamber, of the workers of the injured corporations, of the subcontinents, and of the Australian manufactures, of the mayors, and of the citizens of the injured districts. At least, Mr. President, we agree. But we're wondering if he'll do everything that's in his hands. In a previous debate your group has already shown distance with two complaints that the rest of the parliamentarians considered necessary: an accompanying protocol for workers from companies in crisis, in order to be able to better articulate their proposals, and training plans for those affected by the temporary shutdown of their companies, in order to be better prepared for any fit for new viability plans. The end of the doubts came three weeks ago, when Councilwoman Arantza Tapia said in this rostrum that the Basque Government can do little in the face of the steel crisis; a resignation that we do not understand anyone, nor those affected. So it is, that three days later the lehendakari announced a plan for Zumarraga, as if from night to morning things were conceived, and that it turns out that it was not new, that the government already had it six months ago and had transposed it. You just told us that your three-year term has been great. I wonder if it is the perception that more than six hundred families have that directly or indirectly depend on ACB Sestao, or at the moment all the inhabitants of Zumarraga, before the position of ArcelorMittal. And, of course, I strongly deny that little can be done by this Government. The Socialists believe that they do have the power to deal with all the consequences of decisions taken outside of here, and I ask you whether you intend to make use of them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u90	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azkue, I believe the chief physician has answered enough in a question he had already asked me, but at any rate, in answer to the question addressed to me... I will tell you that in the steel crisis and the condition it is having in different companies in the sector the Basque Government is acting from its competences and beyond its competences. And we didn't start yesterday. We have long been proposing solutions and alternatives, and we have done so before the Spanish Government, also before the European institutions. And, beyond witness policies that are easy to pose, to propose, beyond witness policies, the Government is acting from pragmatism, proposing concrete solutions to face reality. Look, the Basque Government has proposed concrete initiatives, yes, to the European institutions, to act against Chinese dumping, and it has also proposed to the Spanish Government measures to reduce the energy cost. And not from now on, but from before, as the Counsellor explained in her opening speech this morning. We are also, in particular, with the owners, with the management of the companies and with the works councils, as well as with the institutional representatives of the municipalities, the regions and the territories concerned. We're facing reality. We've gotten involved and we'll keep getting involved. Our only goal is to help businesses in their future proposals. Our highest priority is to avoid the definitive closure of plants in Euskadi. We have overcome the crisis of the naval sector working together, and we will also overcome, as we have done with the domestic appliances sector, also working together, we will do with the steel sector as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u93	Lehendakari, ArcelorMittal don't know where Zumarraga is. The ones we're here are. What is happening gives us a feeling that this has caught you with your foot changed, has made you have to talk about something that was not foreseen in your pre-election agenda. They have descended from the cloud of the "everything is well" that they have unfortunately copied in relation to employment, forgetting the real situation in which we live. I think it is our responsibility to offer more than new words. Everyone's; I don't excuse ours. That is why the Socialists have proposed plans for the economic and social dynamism of the regions where large companies are located, whose continuity depends on the decisions taken away from Euskadi. We have proposed it, and it did not seem urgent to you to discuss it. We need to offer more than solidarity to those skilled workers who have shown commitment to their businesses, their families and the regions where they develop their lives. And today we know we can do it. We did so, remember, in the 1980s, alleviating the consequences and at least guaranteeing two decades of changes that were timely. It is up to you to take the initiative and leadership. He will perhaps take some time away from him in his election campaign, but he will approach what his Government insists on advertising, saying nothing concrete. By the way, yesterday and today, commitment to people. And tomorrow. Fill in the content propaganda, please. Zumarraga, Sestao, Amurrio require rigour, and propaganda, autobomb, annoys, lehendakari, those who have their lives in a fist of uncertainty. We support the demonstration that the unions have unitedly convened for the next 23rd of April in defense of our industry. Defend her, too, lehendakari jauna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u94	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Azkue, I do not know what part of my speech, in which we reiterate our commitment and since when we are acting, with which sectors we are acting, has not been understood. I repeat, we have been working on this issue for months, and we have put alternatives on the table, we. And we are working with the union representation and mayors and also with the heads of the companies. And today, yes, my biggest concern is the situation of ArcelorMittal, which has ratified the temporary closure of the Zumarraga plant. And as a government we will insist before the business group that it does not abandon the region; that the temporary, partial closure of the Zumarraga plant does not become definitive. And we call for maximum social sensitivity with the affected families; for the company to bet on the set of productive plants it has in Euskadi, and for investment and modernisation plans to be developed for its future viability and competitiveness. And in this future commitment to the steel sector, the Basque Government, as well as the whole of the institutions, will work and collaborate. I am concerned, yes, about all the regions affected. Not only Zumarraga: the whole of the affected regions. The Government's commitment to reindustrialization and economic recovery is full, and the Government is working with Zumarraga and the rest of the affected regions. So, you know, I've got to keep doing my bidding, not to shut up the company's Zugag factory, to keep up the activity. And we ask the workers and families to offer temporary solutions to the future, showing their sensibility, and also to show a strong commitment to the other favourites of Eukadin. We ask him to promote investments and guarantee futureability. And Eukonjok, along with other organizations, confirms the bet on this economic sector, and he's still offering full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. fourteen points in theme list: "Interra del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de lópez, Muuninka Potula Group members of the Department of Economics and the head physician of competition, as to the future of the Reformation of the Arabs." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u97	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President, Mr Lehendakari, Councillors, Counsellor. I ask you on behalf of the People's Group on the situation of the beet sector in the Basque Autonomous Community, a production which, as you know, is given especially or mainly..., no, totally in the territory of Álava. Towing sector regulated by the CMO of sugar. And if we make a short story, ten years ago this sector occupied 3,000 hectares of production, affected 400 farms, accounted for 35% of the income for these farms, and the price per tonne was about 48 euros. One of the most profitable crops, the most profitable after grape and wine. It is in 2006 when the European Union proposes an amendment to the CMO for sugar, which results mainly in a significant reduction in the price per tonne, from EUR 48 to EUR 28 per tonne, when production costs were between EUR 38 and EUR 41 per tonne, so that the profitability of the sector remains in the air. The beet sector is a sector with very good professionals, with well-stocked farms in machinery and with irrigation that are essential for this production. Producers and administrations have made many efforts to make it a competitive sector and to match the circumstances, or better, more profitable than producers in other regions. In view of the situation resulting from the modification of the CMO for sugar, the Basque Government and the Foral Diputación de Álava, together with the sugar beet producers' associations, draw up the sectoral plan for sugar beet, with the aim of promoting specific actions aimed at strengthening and strengthening a sector, the beet beet industry, which was going through a cyclical crisis and which required preferential attention. This plan, with amendments, has been maintained until the entry of the new CAP, which is based on Regulation 1.307 of 2013, which gives Member States the opportunity to establish aid associated with certain sectors. And the Government of Spain decided that beetkeepers can receive an associated aid per hectare of cultivated beet. For the north this aid, according to the Ministry's data, is 521.33 euros per hectare. Here, in this data, there is an important difference, at least in the data we have handled and the chips your department has on this aid, in which the associated aid figure, in your department, is 445 euros per hectare. So, yes, I would like you to explain to us this difference, counselor, why this difference in the value of the associated aid. What is the value that has been paid to the beetkeepers in this year for associated aid. But in addition, rural development plans give the possibility of helping, by the measure of diversification of extensive crops under sustainable agricultural production techniques. Could you tell us, Commissioner, what this aid is going to be, and whether it is finally approved by the European Commission? Counselor, I don't know if you've heard what I was asking you, or I repeat. He said that rural development plans provide possibilities for aid for the diversification of extensive crops under sustainable agricultural production techniques. Could you tell us what this aid is going to be in Álava, to the sugar beet sector in Álava, and whether it is finally approved by the European Commission? In what terms is it approved? The quota system for the beet sector ends on 30 September 2017. That is to say, we are in the two years of extension that was achieved for the completion of the quotas. Two years to gain competitiveness. We are at the beginning of the 2016-2017 harvest, the last campaign with quotas, and, according to the data given by the producers' associations, and by the seed that has been reserved – because the sowing has not yet started, mainly because the rains prevent it – it will be 10% less. It will hardly reach 2,000 hectares. And we've stayed on 160 farms. That is, that in this ten-year history, ten years ago, 3,000 hectares were planted, today we are not going to reach 2,000. Ten years ago there were 400 farms, and today there are 160. It is true that productions, and by the good doing of our producers, have risen in yield, but that is not enough. The data on the reduction of hectares and farms must draw our attention and think that we must be very careful. This sector shows weakness. We must take advantage of the data from the latest yields of our productions and focus on costs, so that we get a greater benefit that generates opportunities for producers. Madam Counsellor, from the People's Group we understand that the Administration must work and lay the foundations to ensure the future of the sugar beet sector, without quotas from 1 October 2017. To ensure the stability of the sector until at least 2020, using the mechanisms offered by the CAP: on the one hand associated aid, and on the other regional aid. All this also has to be linked to what the industry can contribute, which in some places at least has already been committed. I would like to know what the industry's commitments are that affect the production of Álava, if you know them, if you have been aware of what you are going to contribute. And we would also like to know what agreements you are having at the meeting tables that you are having with the sector. I know you have had meetings, and I would like to know how you face the future of the quota-free beet industry at those meetings. Madam Councilwoman, we are talking, as I said, about a very important production sector, which affects an important area of production, which, in addition to the economic part, implies the stability of the population in an important territory, which also maintains it, which also carries out another complementary activity... Therefore, Madam Counsellor, we are talking about an important productive sector, and I would like to know what the position of your administration is, what they are doing together with the Foral Chamber of Álava and the sector, and how the administration is going to deal with..., what it is committed to so that this sector remains competitive.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u99	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. In the first place, Mme. lópez has given some facts, but you will allow me to give you certain facts related to the production of our stock-alage-of the year before, of 2015. Agraban, a hundred peasants form this sector, and, as you yourself said, only Aban. approximately 2015 acres have been dug and 186.53 tons. That's what seems to have been the product of 92,500 pounds of acres, and the value of production is six million and... It was a total euro. As you know, you're sure to know, we've gone from the production of 70 acres in 2000 to produce 100 tons today. So there's been a lot of effort. And apart from these, and making a great deal of effort, I should like to remark, that one of the other principal characteristics of the reformor has been an agreement between the producers of trade and the contract of industry, because it is only possible, as we all know, by providing subsidies or obtaining benefits. But on what stage do we move, or on what stage, as you rightly said? The Community market analyses a document of its own from the European Commission which talks about the prospects of agricultural markets in the European Union 2015-2025. It is observed that the decrease or disappearance of sugar and isoglucose quotas in 2017 will have a very important impact, both on the price of sugar, which is expected to approach the world market price, falling..., and this will lead to the sector having to become more competitive, to make that yield better, in order to be able to remain on the market. It is also expected that, in this downward price trend, the absence of quotas will encourage greater sugar production in other areas where it was not being produced, and that it will be possible to reach 18 million tonnes of sugar by 2025. This accounts for 5% more production in general than is currently being produced in the European Union. What are you going to assume, too? That by 2025 the European Union itself will be a net exporter of sugar, given this increase. Well, in that scenario, what do we propose and what are we working on? Well, because the consequences for our dairy sector have already been experienced and we already know how we have suffered them, it is necessary for farmers (in this case only Alaveses, as I said) to have tools to facilitate the positioning and sustainable growth of this beet sector. It is difficult for us to reach those quotas that we had of 3,000 hectares in production, but what we really have to achieve, at least, is that the growth we can achieve (and we aspire to growth) is also sustainable over time. As you said, aid per hectare has also been allocated to the State, assisted by European funds, of EUR 520 per hectare. But, in addition, I would like to recall that the Basque Government itself in 2015 has launched a minimum aid for this crop, of 300 euros per hectare, aid from the Government, to which we should also add an aid launched for that same exercise by the Álava Foral Chamber. But, moreover, last December, in December 2015, we sent to the Commission, as you have rightly mentioned, a new proposal for a support measure for this crop within the rural development aid articulated through the EAFRD, a measure which is currently under negotiation and therefore I cannot detail under what conditions it is going to end, but which we hope to be able to establish throughout 2016. This new measure is part of the agri-environmental measures, and the applicability will extend, as you also know, over five years. This measure will be articulated through the part of the Basque Government in this RDP. And I would also like to point out that, while we usually refer, when we talk about supporting the sector, we stick very much to the aid we are putting in place, it is important to point out – and we also have the experience of the dairy sector, in the face of the disappearance of quotas – that, in addition to those aid, we have to articulate other measures that make the sector competitive. You said it yourself, obviously. And that experience we have had with the dairy sector is that it has obviously impacted us on liberalisation, but the crisis has affected us in a more limited way than the rest, precisely because the sector was much more structured, and that collaboration between the producer and processor sector was much better articulated. Therefore, since, on the one hand, the high productivity of the beet sector (in the entire northern part of the state, it is true, but in Álava we are certainly seeing it in particular) is one of our success stories, we must continue to work in a scenario of stability, security, between the production sector and industry. That is to say, in the interprofessional framework agreement that will help to improve this competitiveness of the sector, bringing and taking advantage of opportunities that can be opened in this new scenario, trying to diversify the product that we can get out of that beet, which is more difficult than in the milk sector, is obvious, but we also have to work on it. We are therefore, both the Basque Government and the Foral Diputación de Álava, and of course our beet industry, to improve the sustainability of crops, with a more rational use of production factors, reducing different costs compared to other European productions, improving on issues of fertilization, irrigation, making use of plant protection products... That is, anything that will enable us to improve the competitiveness and productivity of this sector. But we are not going to stay there, because we have obviously known what has happened in the dairy sector, which is a great experience in this case, and what we are going to do is... We know that we are in two years of extension, but since the European Union itself has analysed what has happened to the dairy sector, we are going to ask, in agreement with the rest of the institutions and the producer sector, the European Union in various instances that really consider increasing the extension and being able to maintain for longer, let us say, those quotas as they are at present, so that – not just us, but obviously also us – it will help us to better articulate the sector and to have it prepared in the face of this scenario of quota disappearance. There is a need for responsible market management from the European Union itself and for social, environmental and economic conditions in this new quota scenario to enable us to be competitive and, of course, to analyse what is happening in third countries and how it affects the production of the beet sector in Álava as well. That is going to be our position right now, and, well, maybe later we can go into more detail, as we move forward in those working meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u101	Indeed, Madam Counsellor, two years of extension, but, as I told you before, two years of opportunity to grow in competitiveness. It is clear that many times we don't put on the stack until we feel pressured. And I don't know if there is going to be any more extension, but I would take the opportunity to do so right now, because, as I say, production data is giving us that every year there is almost 10% reduction in the area of production, almost 10%. It's a lot, and the farms are shrinking. Therefore, there is a sign of weakness. Production has risen by 33 % in the last five years (except in the 13-14 marketing year, more or less, which was worse), but it is difficult to climb more. And yet, the surface volume goes down. Therefore, we have to think that we have a very professional, very qualified sector, with powerful structures, that both producers and administrations have made an effort to ensure that they have the best conditions to carry out their activity, and that we cannot lose it. We have a very important baggage, a know-how to do very important, and therefore we have to protect it and, as you said and we all agreed, recover at least a certain volume of sown surface. Because profitability depends on many variables, and even if we take five years with that percentage, we know previous data, and sometimes, well, it can happen. Therefore, I think it is very important that we start doing things and taking steps. In addition, you know there is something added: Alava's beet-producing sector depends on Miranda's plant, and if there is no fair volume of production Miranda's plant remains pending. Therefore, we are fully linked, totally linked to the volume of production, and that is a very important part that should not make us lose our sensitivity to what is happening to this sector and what can happen to it. I encourage you, of course, to continue working, and more insistently, if possible, to seek protective measures for this sector... , not of protection, but of strengthening the sector. And it is possible to grow, which I think is necessary. And if we've had 3,000 hectares, why can't we have them again? Of course we can have them again! We're ready for it! But let's make it attractive, because if it's stopped sowing it's because it's not being attractive to the producer. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, I encourage you to work, and if possible more insistently, so that this sector will again take at least the volume we had ten years ago. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u103	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I fully agree with what you were saying, Mrs López de Ocariz. Indeed, we have to improve production, we have to increase production and we have to make it attractive, making there a certain concentration, so that those producers actually have yields that allow them to continue their activity. Because it's all connected, as you said, to Miranda's plant. Therefore, I think that we are going to live on it almost, the life of the beet sector is going on it. What else have we agreed and are we doing? Well, within the possibilities that allow us, in addition to have a center dedicated to R & D for the agricultural sector, improving the rationalization of the use of water (measures that are already being adopted), also optimize the rotation of crops, improve and put into practice new techniques of fertilization that allow us to have better yields at less cost, that the transport that we carry out is moreover more sustainable and more efficient, a better use even of the by-product that can be obtained, in order to obtain other yields and more economic performance, in short, for those producers... Well, in all those aspects we are working on, in addition to the ones I have previously commented to you. And, of course, our intention is that this sector will remain competitive, that it will be affected as little as possible by the disappearance of quotas if a further extension is not achieved. And in that scenario, which is the worst or the most realistic at the moment, we are moving. And, of course, you have no doubt at all that we are going to work with all the institutions and with the producer sector so that this beet sector not only has a future today or tomorrow, but is a sustainable sector in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 15th point in the theme list: "Apology, the Maider Ottamo Tolasosa EH Collectors to the Chief of Police and Society, about Housing Law." Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. The Spanish Government, the Minister's Council, decided to appeal to the Constitutional Court in the 18th of March, in order to present to the Housing Law the inconstitutional opposition of the Constitution. Twenty days have passed since then, and we have not yet received official communications from this decision. And, of course, we do not know exactly what has been concluded; "contra determindos preceptos de la Ley de Vivienda," it has been stated. Ez dakigu zein artikuluri eagiten dion edo dien: "against several articles". Baina garbi esaten duena arazoia says: "for having introduced the duty of occupation of the uninhabited housing, punishing its non-occupation". Erabiltzen diren argudioak izugarriak will say: "The Basque law determines and imposes a new regulation of property rights over housing, by including a new duty, that of housing". Eta zertarako wasikitzen say, ba, etxeak? Hutsik egoteko? The ornamentzeko paisa? Espekulatzeko? It is said that the jurisdiction of the state is broken. This law was adopted within the jurisdiction of the Eran Autonomy over the house. In the opinion of EH Collectors, it's a very serious decision, because it attacks self-engage directly. It is evident that the Spanish Government is not ready to accept and respect the decisions which have been made here, because its obsession is to restore the state. Where are our jurisdictions left? Where is the right of deciding? It is more and more obvious that we need an independent state. We are to make decisions here at liberty, far from the grip of an aggressive state, which does not give any such contempt to the decisions of the majority of this Parliament. And the appeal is very serious, too, because it makes it uncertain that the essential right to be an apartment is to be supported. This is the end and foundation of the House of Housing, that is to say, the public administration is to secure the right of housing to all the citizens. In fine, the government of Rajoy has opposed this fundamental principle, though its Spanish constitution proclaims and acknowledges the right of housing. In the name of this fundamental right, the Housing Law offers the Administration a tool which has hitherto been but theoretical rights in order to exercise itself in a practical manner. And in particular, he anticipated effective tools, and a very effective way of decorating empty houses with empty houses, with a view to non-existent housing, and, of course, to disperse the necessity of rental, and, of course, to neglect the houses which do not conform to their social purpose. In other words, a subjective housing right was owned above speculation. In a social point of view, that was a great step forward. But now the Spanish Government wants to take us back again by means of the appeal it has announced. This appeal, in addition to doubting the subjective right of being a decent establishment, seeks to abolish the measures against the departures. The other ones, for the use of empty houses, for the use of houses that don't fill the social functions they've been accused of, the banting orders to make use of the bank housing houses, the plans for the rental parks, and, in general, the measures that tend to satisfy the housing requirements of the currently existing housing. EH collect does not allow a situation in which thousands of people have no right to the right of housing, while a few of them are profiting from the situation by speculators of business. The only rights left in the theory are worthless. For the use of rights, they're for the performance, and that's what we've got with the Housing Law. So to appeal to Housing Law is a violation of the basic rights of all the people. All the citizens of Araba, Biscay, and Gipuzia, are victims of the decision of the Spanish Government. And, of course, the most wanted will be the most damaged ones this time. The appeal of the Spanish government has also made it clear, that the uneasiness of PPren and of the right in general is not at all to be disturbed by homeing. EH Collect wants the Untasted Basque Country, and Housing Law is a useful tool for that, to prevent the fire. But the object of PP is not to hinder homekeeping, but to protect the interests of financial institutions. The appeal of the Spanish government has made it clear. And, as I have already observed, it has also been evident that this people requires a complete independence, if it is to preserve the rights of all the citizens. Because if you go to Madrid, that end will be impossible. And once you get to that point, we think you're talking about fun, EAJ's party view is getting stronger to self-defense. As far as the Housing Law is concerned, it's obviously a good idea to appeal to the Spanish Government. In fact, he was waiting for the fun of singing when the law was accepted. It may be said, from the very beginning, that Urkullu himself foretold the appeal, because, after all, if we speak of the housing, EAJ and PP represent and defend the same interests. And these interests are not of the victims of homeless, but of the banks of homeless. The latter submits to the interests of banks and speculators, and not to the interests of the community. It was obvious that in the discussion of the law, EAJ and PP, they had the same obsession: Defend private property before they secure the welfare of the community. I mean, you didn't want the housing canon on the empty floor, or you didn't want to anticipate any dismemberment option. You want to win in the courts what you didn't win by voting on the law. In the opinion of EHG, the last few months, MYK has used the letter of cymbalism: in words, you have opposed the appeal of the Spanish Government, but it seems to us that you have received the news with joy at the foundation. As a matter of fact, Urkullu and EAJ have managed to get their original goal without staining their hands, dirty work, the appeal to the Housing Act, for Rajoy has done it to you. In answer to several questions we asked you in the September, you announced that the Basque General had accepted his request to start the state administration's work of cooperation, while you were waiting for a formal call. Did the two-way committee meet? And what were the judgments which were maintained? It will not, at least, be because with the parties who accepted the law, the law was agreed to act or consulted. And what were the answers that were received? Do they keep everything recorded in the report of Hand-in-law Acting Management? And now, Mr. Toña, where we are, what are you going to do to make sure the housing was the end of the Law?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u106	Thank you, Madam Mount. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u107	Ladies' chief table, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. First, Madam Olivet, I would like to remind you that the Act of 3/2015 Housing was admitted on June 18th of 2015, and that it was introduced into the 26th of September, and that the subjective right which includes the right to the apartment began in January 1, 2016. Law indarrean sartu baino lehenago, ustailaren 22an, Ogasun eta Administrazione Publikoetako Ministryak Jaurlaritzari komunikatu zion Etxebizitza Law aztertuta hainbat artikulurekin ez zegoela teenagers; zehazki, 3, 4, 6, 9, 56, 57, 59, 63, 64, 72, 74, 75, 83 eta 84 artikuluekin eta legearen lehenengo dispositionarekin. Specifically, succinctly, the above-mentioned articles provide for the regulation of uninhabited housing, public instruments of intervention in the housing market, and agents involved in the provision of real estate services. I am now focusing on the first of the issues. The Housing Act has established the definition of uninhabited housing and, in order to promote the fulfilment of the social role of housing, establishes a fee that will impose it. These dwellings, in addition to the canon, may be forced to rent, according to the law, in areas where there is a demand for registered rental housing, if they remain empty one year after their declaration as uninhabited. With regard to public instruments of intervention in the housing market, the law has regulated the forced expropriation of free housing for cases in which the duty of conservation and rehabilitation is not fulfilled, and the forced expropriation of the temporary use of dwellings in the process of eviction by mortgage execution or by leasing. Finally, the Housing Act has defined those agents who intervene in the provision of real estate services, opening up the possibility of regulating requirements for the exercise of the activity of real estate agent, as well as the obligations that these persons must fulfil. The Central Government considered that the holding of a bilateral cooperation commission Administration of the State-Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi would enable the search for an adequate solution in order to avoid a remedy of unconstitutionality. It couldn't be any other way, and we did. The Basque Government agreed to participate in the bilateral cooperation commission, and this was agreed by a resolution of 30 July 2015 of the Deputy Councillor of the Legal Regime, and a working group was subsequently appointed to propose to the bilateral cooperation commission the appropriate solution. As early as October, Otamendi andrea, the lehendakari in this House stated that the arguments that the Government was going to defend in the bilateral commission, which had not yet been convened, would be criteria of legality of the Housing Act, of defence of the Housing Act approved by a majority of this Parliament. And he also stated the lehendakari that the Basque Executive defends that Euskadi has full right to articulate his public policies, and that trying to restrict the ability to legislate and condition public policies is an interference of the Government of Spain that attacks our self-government. Are we glad to hear it, Mrs. Olivet, government resources? No. Neither I nor the EAJ. Subsequently, the Directorate-General for the Coordination of Competences with the Autonomous Communities and Local Entities, of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, finally convened us to a meeting on 12 November 2015, to the working group established. I say he summoned us, because we didn't convene that commission. And he called us nothing less than to deal, in addition to the Housing Act, which he already had enough, I say, for a meeting..., because not: in addition to dealing with the Intangible Cultural Heritage Act, the Basque Civil Law Act, and the Act on additional environmental protection measures for the extraction of non-conventional hydrocarbons and the hydraulic or "fraking" fracture. Too many topics for a meeting, but they call it. The aim of the working group was to find an interpretative coincidence with the text adopted by this Parliament which would enable the doubts that the central government had transferred to be dispelled, since the text cannot be modified in any case by the bilateral committee, whether we want it or not, but we also do not want to amend a law that has been adopted by this Parliament. I'd miss more! I'd miss more! As far as the housing law, the Christmas text, the entire text, defended its constitutionality and legality, and we asked the central Government not to appeal to the Constitutional Tribunal. From now on, the central Government, not before the general elections, nor even at the time when afterwards it has been in function, has not been placed in contact with our Government to penetrate into the socialities of this subject which we now examine (in fact, in other words, not in others). So, funk, work on the collection of corporate emissions, and the work that he's done in the work team created for the interpretational agreement, the whole Housing Law (1). he tried to keep the last distance from the article to the addiction.) He's done it and he'll be like that, no doubt. The first day we said that the Law which received him from this Assembly is the Law of us all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u109	To say, at least, that contempt in the state is a great deal. As far as we're concerned, EH Collect will never give in. When the appeal to the Housing Law is committed in the Constitution of the Court, it may interrupt the application of some important articles of the Law. That's why we're asking you to announce the appeal of the Basque Country against the suspension of the law until the Constitution decided once and for all. Is the government reporting appeals? If suspense is decided, will you present an appeal against him? These important articles are still in force for the government, so that it is no problem to go to the proper steps. Further, if this appeal be introduced, we may strictly follow the application of the law. So you're going to announce an appeal against the read-down articles? But the government will do it directly? Even before the appeal presented by the State, there were several duties to apply the law. For example, the law requires the creation of a housing register without people, to be regulated by rule. Are you getting ready already? It is also the interest of the Government to form a public organism for the housing affairs. How's it going? Are you guys starting to do something? Have the government a will to increase the public park? Did you do anything in that sense? You've put the rent register in motion, not with a few reviews, either from the tenant's side or from the professionals in the sector, as we can read today in the press. The law ordains that, independently of the means which have been directed to re-retribution, the other public means will be directed to the rent during 80% of the first five years and 100 percent from that point forward. Is there anything done this way? And so we could continue with a long list, but you know better than you know what the duties are. Another question is, whether you have any will to do or what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u110	Thank you, Madam Mount. Mr. Toña, your word is to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u111	Thank you, ma'am. Madam Ottagon, in spite of the defense of the EukMUE's assembling committee, the Spanish Minister's Council, on the 18th of the preceding March, requested to appeal to several articles of the Housing Law. It is the necessary occupation of the house, where there is nothing to do with incolicion, or that which regulates the sanctification of the non-presumption. To date, to date, to date, the Government has not received any notification of the filing of the appeal announced by the Council of Ministers, so we do not know both the legal bases and the articles appealed, although we imagine them by the reference I have made to it before, or if the automatic suspension of them has been requested. We must stress that those articles of the Housing Act that are not subject to appeal are in force and are therefore applicable. Have no doubt about this, Mrs. Otamendi. No doubt. The Housing Act continues to be in force and has its full effect, with the exception, in the event of suspension, of the items appealed, which will be a maximum of fifteen, to which I have previously referred. And if they're suspended, Mrs. Otamendi, they're suspended. And we'll try to defend them. Despite not having an official notification so far, there is every reason to believe that the remedy will focus, as announced, on these legal guarantees of the proper use of housing conditions and the social function of housing. It is true that it has not been a surprise to this Government to submit the unconstitutionality appeal, since during the parliamentary process of the law the Ministry of Economy has already warned of the possible causes of unconstitutionality that it believes existed, as well as during the development of the bilateral commission. Many of the issues that did not make possible the agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party on the adoption of the Housing Act had to do precisely with our doubts about the unconstitutionality of certain precepts that were being introduced into the law, and you know it, Mrs Otamendi. You know that. You also made some mistakes in the drafting of the law, and now you have to correct them, as we corrected yesterday with the fees. And others that will surely have to be corrected at the request of this House. In addition, numerous regulations of other autonomous communities that have regulated those aspects whose remedies have been announced had previously been appealed and suspended by the central government: the Canary Islands Housing Act, the Navarra Foral Act, the Andalusian Decree-Law... I'm not going to quote them all. The content of the Housing Act is the expression of the popular will on public housing policy that most people want for Euskadi. I said it, and I'll repeat it. And from the first day we say that the law passed by this Parliament is a law that the Government endorses, that the opposition parties endorse, particularly the Basque Nationalist Party, which will develop and implement the Government. And I'm strictly telling you. This is a new attack on the self-government of the Basque Autonomous Community, in this case against exclusive jurisdiction over housing, recognized as such in the Statute of Gernika. And, therefore, the Government will continue to defend the integrity of the text (the integrity of the text), as well as the need for the articles that have been resorted to to to deploy all their effects, without any limitation. In order to develop the Housing Act as a whole, it'll be a defense while the Eusk0 is transmigrating the resource. In order not only to avoid having negative consequences in persons who are in need of the housing, they seek to develop legal guarantees. All this at the edge of our exclusive jurisdiction in the housing area. The parties that passed, gave their approval to this law, and that we have made it ours, know perfectly well that, precisely for the time being, some issues have not been properly addressed. And then, later, it will be said that we comply with the spirit of the law and not with the letter of the law. And, although I don't know much about Latin, something I learned from the Civil Code: Legislature Volunteers, Legislature Volunteers. What the law says and what the legislator meant...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u112	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Time is up. The sixteenth theme in the theme list: "I'm asking you, "Sana Corcuera, smooth-superda Euscal Sociialists, members of the team, members of Ogasun and Finning department, to aid small and middle-class companies and autonomists on the outcome of the plan of 2015." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u113	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The economic crisis, among other things, reduced the avenues of financing available to economic operators in Euskadi. Today's uncertainty suggests that a programme to support the financing of SMEs, individual entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals, such as those that have been in operation since 2009, should remain in place. He knows, Mr President, that this support for those who are the main creators of employment has been a commitment of the Socialists, that we have called for budgetary allocations to maintain the stimulus and momentum for Basque SMEs, businesses and self-employed people. My group has been interested in the implementation of the development of this programme, and the results of your department, at least those that have provided us, have worried us, and very much, because they have seemed to us scarce. In 2015, only 85 SMEs, just a quarter of what had been the annual average, were supported by the financial support programme. And, if we are talking about the publicly guaranteed funding line, we have moved from an annual average of 160 to 20, that is, just over a tenth of the annual average. And the data are yours, Mr Councilman, and the Socialists seem to us to be sufficiently explicit and worrying that from the Basque Government there will be substantial actions and changes to this programme. That's why we were asking him what he's going to do to increase interest in this program for those who are directed and who really bet on the country's future, on creating productive fabric and on employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u115	Thank you. Madame Corcuera, our forces are divided into two towns. One, 2013, which was put in motion, and the other, when President Lopez was president, on July 2012. The area has changed economically. You see, in 2012, when we came in with the former government and us, it was in a state of extreme delay: crude internal product fell two%, even the following year, 2013, we were under 1,8%. Luckily, there has been an important growth in the last two years: The year %1,4 to 2014, and in 2015, %2.8. Inguru ekonomiko hori kontuan eduki behar dozu alde bitik, Corcuera andea. Alde battik, zer gertatzen da eskaintzaren aldetik? On the supply side, Mrs Corcuera, there is a very important change in the financial markets. There is a radical change in European monetary policy. This has provided financial institutions with high liquidity and, therefore, the basic financing problem that existed in the years 2012 and 2013 has disappeared, due to a radical change in the monetary policy of the European Union. Two, from the supply side, it has occurred that there has been a very important, very important financial restructuring of credit institutions, and that has led to an effect, and it is a capitalisation of financial institutions and an improvement in their solvency levels. Desde el lado de la suee. Like I said, we're out of time. Companies have started winning, companies have begun to improve. And the third thing is, "thank you, the lever," it's getting smaller. Those two contexts are supposed to... The two public buildings which are to promote the finances of the company, the government and the former government have a large ration, because the conditions are equal, but the context has changed. If you see the incests of the Central Bank of the European Union are also the 2048 interests of Spain, which the Banks of Spain have socialised, the financial problem of the companies in the State has diminished from 38 to 13%. That's the context that happened. Compliments have more causes, even mildness has decreased. So, if we combine the offer and demand in financial bills, that is to say, the fact is that we don't have the fullness of the popular program. But, in spite of everything, as you said, we are engaged in the government program. And we're engaged to you, too, with the Socialist Party, to maintain these two programs. And what is it that we've done? What we've done is, as you know, the maple and information that we've given you are the one who's given us, the instead of the instead of the backing up of the rain's ratio. At this moment, our interest for loans, Mrs. Corcuera, is for three years and %1,25 to five and seven years. Then it may be said that the less the loan is, the fewer the loans are made. Why? In the end, there's been a change in the financial trade, and that offer and demand is the product. But it's still more marketing for 2016, at 1%, interest...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u116	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Your time is up, your time is up. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u117	Thank you, President. Yes, counselor, look, I have heard the lehendakari say, this week of celebrations, that much remains to be done, and it is true, because something is failing in the management of the government. And this has not been discussed these days of celebrations, but it is true that something fails. Because, how is it possible that only nine new SMEs and one new person will be hosting this financial support program in 2015? True, things have been able to change, they have been able to improve in what is the economic and macroeconomic scenario, but we must not forget that if the programme exists it is because there really are liquidity problems, there are problems for the financing of these small and medium-sized enterprises and of self-employed individual entrepreneurs. Therefore, if the programme remains what needs to be done, it is a reflection on the system, and how to adapt that programme to the new circumstances that may be taking place. And it gives me the impression, because this programme for 2016 was opened up to public participation, to citizen participation, it gives me the impression that what has been missing from the government is evaluation, analysis, reflection on what to do with this programme to adjust. And to those companies, which will surely be doubting, in the face of a scenario still today of uncertainty, unfortunately, considering whether to create, if to go out to the market, if to go out to the economic world, gives me the impression that we are not assuring them with this program any access lines that are of interest. And that's what we're asking you to do, take action; that after that reflection, that citizen participation, the government evaluates and makes a program appropriate to those circumstances and does not leave it by 2020, which seems to be that fetish date that the Basque government has just found, to come up with new plans or new programs. Do so now, because surely there will be interested companies that have not taken up this programme because of a number of difficulties that are expressed in it itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies, members of the "Cinca Roncal Azanza Eusia Socialists" made to the head of the Medical Department, personal personnel and non-sanitantal functions in the constant environments of the ESI. " Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u119	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Eguerdi on denoi, counselor. Today we come to ask you about the legality and quality of the health care offered to the population of OSI Barrualde-Galdakao when you go to the emergency services extra-hospital, i.e. to the CAP, especially because you say that your policy is people-centred (i.e., "People helburu"). And let's see how this people-centred policy is carried out in the area of health. You and the OSI health service providers have organized out-of-hospital emergency health care in such a way that the first health care – I don't say the administrative, that's correct – the first health care is provided by administrative assistants and colerators, that service that in technical terms is called triage. Triage is the process by which a patient is evaluated upon arrival at an emergency department to determine the urgency of the problem he brings, and then assign the appropriate resource for the care of the identified problem. The performance of the screening – and we all agree that it is carried out in all emergency services – has many advantages, both for patients and their families and for the organization. This sorting function, of course, here and in all parts and health services, is performed by health personnel. It's a health function. Doctors and nurses are the right ones to perform this screening function. And this function, as I say, is performed with great satisfaction for the work done and the results obtained, in terms of the satisfaction of the working professionals and the patients. But let's see if administrative assistants and colerators are health professions, and we have resorted to the Health Professions Act. And the latest amendment and consolidated text of March 2014 defines the health profession as those qualified and regulated professions whose training is aimed specifically and fundamentally at equipping stakeholders with the knowledge, skills and abilities of health care. According to this law, they are structured into several levels: degree level (e.g. doctors, pharmacists...), degree level (optics, optometrists, logopeds, nutritionists, etc.), and level of professional training, and there are the higher professional training technicians, such as the specialists in pathological anatomy, in dietetics, in health documentation, and then there are the middle-grade technicians, such as the nursing and pharmacy assistants. Here, by reviewing this structure, it does not appear as a health profession or as co-workers or administrative assistants. I guess it matches me, doesn't it, Counselor? In case there is some kind of equivalence (we have the doubt that there is some kind of equivalence) between these professions of administrative assistants and secluders with other professions within the national health system, within the statutory professionals we have found that within group C2 (auxiliary group of the administrative function) administrative assistants are equated with stenographers and stenographers. And, within the group of management staff and professional groups, the cellator is equated to various service staff (maintenance, driver cellator, official, warehouse manager...). Nor do we see here any equivalence with a health profession. I guess it's back to me. For greater abundance, we have examined the requirements for access to these categories of administrative assistant and colerator in the latest OPE of Osakidetza, and we have not found any academic or formative requirements, nor health certification, for access to these degrees. So you and the directors of the OSI of Barrualde-Galdakao, through a two-hour course directed, they say, to train and inform the OSI's celling staff of the knowledge necessary for the correct implementation of the integrated process, given this two-hour course (or course, as you would like to call it) by the head of the emergency department and the head of the quality unit... Do you think that with this two-hour course you have equated an untrained, non-healthy staff as belonging to a qualified health profession, as reflected in the law? And it is that from this course or workshop they consider the collators able to perform the screening in the hospital emergency services. Triage that we have already said is to receive the patient, to ask him a health question, and to evaluate the type of problem he presents, to decide whether urgent care is appropriate, whether a transfer is appropriate, whether nursing care is appropriate, etc. But we are also dealing with data specially protected by law. The Data Protection Act, Organic Act, Act No. 15 of 1999, points out in paragraph 3 that personal data, especially those referring to health, may only be collected for the general interest, because it is provided by a law or because the person concerned expressly consents to it. Obviously, as you agree with me, this consent has to be informed consent, and I don't think the co-workers and administrative assistants will tell you, when a patient arrives, "Look, I'm not a health care provider, but I'm going to ask you some health questions and I'm going to decide what level of illness, of gravity, you present." In this case the citizen is being deceived, the patient is being deceived, because when he comes to an Osakidetza health service he understands that from a health point of view he is being treated by a health personnel, with the guarantee of the health authority. Because Osakidetza depends on the Department of Health! Health Authority to ensure that the services provided to citizens are by qualified personnel, and that these personnel have the knowledge and training to solve their problem, either by attending directly to it or by directing it to another service. So you tell me: People-centred politics? Does it belong to helburu? That's what we want, "pertsona helburu", people-centred politics. So how are you going to resolve emergency health care in the out-of-hospital emergency care services of the Barrualde-Galdakao OSI, naturally respecting the law and citizens' rights?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon. Roncal andrea, you ask me for a document, I understand, of the OSI Barrualde-Galdakao entitled "Decision trees for face-to-face care circuits", for the use of administrative and non-health personnel of the OSI Barrualde-Galdakao continuous care points. A document, as you will know, so much that it speaks to me of the law, competence of the OSI Barrualde-Galdakao in the exercise of its autonomy of management, recognized by the Law of Health Order of Euskadi and that thanks to its inquiry, I have been able to read. And the truth is, it's been hard for me to understand the question, it's been hard for me to understand the justification, and it's been hard for me to understand you here today, but, well, then, if that, particularly explains it to me. The justification for the initiative states that the document entrusts non-health personnel with the performance of strictly sanitary tasks, such as assessing the seriousness of the case or diagnosing the problem presented by the patient. Consequently, what seems to motivate this inquiry is its alarm at the possibility that this Department of Health is entrusting strictly sanitary tasks to unskilled and legally qualified personnel. If I made the same reading you've made of the text, I'd be worried too, of course. If I understood the text in the same way, I'd take charge of the officials of that organization too. Well, what I don't know is what interest you think the Department of Health or Osakidetza might have in doing such a thing, because we don't actually have it, and I'm also sure you know it. You can rest assured, ladies and gentlemen, that what Mrs Roncal has been able to understand as a possible and inadequate commissioning of health tasks to non-health personnel is nothing more than the result of a work carried out at OSI Barrualde-Galdakao to detect improvements in the points of continuous care, with the aim of unifying criteria and avoiding inefficiencies. A document driven and led by health professionals themselves, supported by the management of the OSI and with the participation of professionals of all categories. What has been done has been to work on the design of an integrated user care management process that demands urgent attention in the so-called CAP. Process integrated under the will of continuous improvement of service. And, like any improvement mechanism that wants to achieve results, this process has become part of the 2016 training programme of the OSI Barrualde-Galdakao, in order to train the staff holding the OSI CAP, as well as the professionals of the category holding the list of work that usually cover that position when there are casualties or increases in activity. A process in which the decision tree, which seems to me to understand that is what concerns you, has been only part of the content of the program, which includes other items such as patient quote, health transport management, reporting of incidents, referral to other services, management of internal incidents, etc. In short, a regular process in the Osakidetza organisations to improve the quality of service, in which, as I have said, 97% of the professionals involved took part. In addition, they have provided suggestions that can only come from those who are providing the service on foot, giving an idea of the rejection that the initiative has been able to provoke and of the real necessity or opportunity of the question for which it has asked me. A large majority of trained professionals participated in this process for free. Make up your mind how many people are against each other. On the other hand, and even if it seems unnecessary to have to clarify it, be sure that in Osakidetza the health tasks are carried out by the health personnel, in this legislature, in the previous one, and in the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u122	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u123	Mr Darpón, I completely agree that we have to do courses, recycling, continuing training, integrated organisation, integrated processes... All that can lead to improved staff training and improved health care seems appropriate to us, and we agree that this should be done. But then that doesn't work for you to do sanitary tasks, which is what you haven't entered into. Because look at that decision tree, right... Please! Two-hour course, I think it's very good. Action of the cellator: "If it comes with a crooked mouth, it has had a stroke". How can you say that! How can you even put it in writing, so that the fence knows how to guide! Someone with a stroke has come, and we're going to send him to the hospital, because he comes with this situation that we can't take care of in the CAP. That's not possible. I'm not worried you'll improve all the management circuits. On the contrary, it seems very good to me, and we will applaud all the actions that are taken to improve the management of administrative tasks, of transport, of identifying citizens, of recognizing whether they have the right to care or not, if they bring the TIS, where they live, where the nearest ambulance is... All that is going to improve the circumstances of health care seems very good to us. But health care has to be provided by a health care provider. And I'm back to the same thing. You tell me: "What interest will we have in not putting in health personnel?". Well, look, the interest is clear. This Parliament (I will give you just one example) has on several occasions approved the incorporation, as you know very well, of a second nurse in all the roles of the Durango CAP. We're waiting for you to put it on. Do you know what's wrong with him? He's short on health personnel! It's not that you have an interest in not caring for the population with health personnel, it's that you don't hire enough health personnel, and that's why you use non-health personnel to perform health functions. That is what we want to say that it does not seem right to us, that we will not accept, and that when you say "Pertsona helburu" you really worry about respecting the rights of citizens, and offering them a legal and quality service. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u125	Mrs Roncal, I didn't think you were going back to the Durango-Landako CAP by now. Sometimes I have doubts whether you have been elected by the citizens and acts as a popular representative or as a trade union agent, but, well, everyone does what they can. Look, I don't lack medical personnel. And, of course, I am not lacking in the Landako CAP, where I have exactly the same staff and with less demand, as I have shown several times, than in the previous parliamentary term. I've got enough staff. What is needed for you are enough ideas to bring new developments that bring something to the whole health system of Euskadi. In 2013, in order to work together and with consensus on urgent care in the Barrualde-Galdakao region, a truly positive initiative, all the services working on the different aspects of the emergency process were brought together, forming a working group (primary care staff, CAP staff, emergency staff and hospital emergency staff at Galdakao Hospital), which had not occurred before it was an IOS. All professional categories working in the joint care circuit were included in this group. The constitution of OSI Barrualde-Galdakao in January 2014 allowed the group to become more dynamic and incorporate it also into the leadership, so that the proposals could be brought to reality. During that year, it was discussed with the different organizations how urgency was worked, identifying critical points and proposing an operating reference model. And don't take things out of context, looking for the colloquial language of one professional talking to another, if it twists I don't know what. We don't get our ideas mixed up. This model includes aspects such as management, process team, patients, interest groups, CAP service portfolio, legal requirements, staff-specific competencies, critical equipment, etc. As you will see, this is a work far removed from any hint of frivolity. And within this work the decision tree was developed and agreed among all participants, which, along with other documentation such as the process sheet and the action plan, was presented to the management of the OSI in January 2015 for approval. As prudence dictates, before deciding the incorporation of a decision tree into the whole region was piloted and used in one of the CAPs, so that between March and June it was used as a tool to facilitate the work, with all the reports received very favorable. All reports of evaluation from the pilot were favourable. This test solved a tool that makes things easier for the decision tree that worries you so much. And that is not what I say: they say the people who work in service day by day. After that month of June it was presented in all primary care units of the region, with a view to carrying out a progressive implementation in their CAP, starting the deployment in the last quarter of last year, without having to date recorded any problems. And my first interest was in your interpellation. As I have mentioned before, understanding that the subject required prior training, 25 and 26 February this year was organized in the region, and for all CAP co-operators, training in which all relevant topics (identification of patients, notification of incidences, etc.) were addressed, with 97% of workers attending. You may think it's a little two hours. I wish, every time I make a change in Osakidetza, we had two paid hours and working hours for all staff, because, as you know, it's not easy, in an organization of our size and within the public administration. By the way, and for the record, this process with its decision tree incorporates as specific competences those described in the decree of functional posts of Osakidetza, the law – that you have named before – and includes receiving calls, receiving users, transferring users, decision tree, assigning appointments, requesting ambulances, facilitating referral procedures. Therefore, within the framework of this complex organization, provide a tool for use by non-health personnel to help better carry out their work. We are very far from the simplification with which you intend to summarise, and it is far from entrusting the non-health personnel with strictly sanitary tasks. And the purpose of the decision tree and that of the government is "Pertsona helburu". I wish you'd join us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u126	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is that Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors have been made to the head of the Medical Department, concerning the question of Margüello, concerning the recommendations made by the House of Investigation." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u127	Good morning. At the beginning of March, the court of the 3rd examining in Bilbo concluded that there were enough signs of Margüello, Cerdán, Elderga, and Fernánd to accuse them of four such crimes: prevarication, influence-traffic, negotiations forbidden to the use of unjust public money, fraud, and civil servants. First of all, in Bilbo's 7th. The court filed it and we don't know whether those people we're going to be accused or not. That's a judicial road. But we have our way and our fun won't do much of it, Mr. Darpón, who's in the hands of the Medical Department, to eliminate those alleged crimes from the public administration and apply the stupid tolerance to the exact measures of management. Horretarako bath borondate politickoa behar yes. Eta ez dakiguna da, Darpón jauna, borondate politicokorik duzuen, ikusita 2011n sinatu zenuten manifestua zuk zeuk eta, besteak beste, gaur egun Osasun Sailean daviden Vinegra jaunak eta María Jesús Múgica anderek, in which, among other issues, you stated that to see what was hidden "behind the nauseous accusations of corruption that, without any justification, have been poured out and continue to pour out". So the answer to the first Mr. Urkullu is a lie. It wasn't just a manificate against the leak. And we have seen that hitherto you have shown no will to fulfill the recommendations received by the investigating committee which had been present in this house. Here we have some recommendations received from the whole company, and on the other hand, the recommendations I received from the question (special suffrages of the year). And you were exactly asking for it, but now you're all laughing and you don't even know what I'm saying to you at your own time: to adapt the criteria of association, to push the competition in oppositions, to examine the incompatibility of the union. Therefore, seeing what we saw not only in this case, but in order to improve the management of the Medical Department, it is a correct question, Mr. Darpón: Before political learning is over, will you follow the recommendations given by Margüello's investigating committee? At least the ones you received in your specials?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u129	Thank you, Mr. President, Congressman. Ubera andrea, when reading the inquiry, believed that you were confusing what was approved by the committee of inquiry with the amendment, which was not approved. With regard to the Government's position with regard to the car, it has become clear this morning, there is nothing new: the Government, which is in its third year, has not withdrawn over the course of these three years, and will remain in person at the time it occurs. However, it must also be borne in mind that the process that has just been reactivated, the order issued on 3 March 2016, will probably be appealed by the accused, as a means of communication already collects. Once the appeal has been resolved, and as long as the court confirms the order, which has not happened, it will proceed with its transfer to the prosecutor for the written formulation of the accusation, which has not happened either. This Government will then proceed with the accusation, which, as you have heard this morning, has never withdrawn. And if the trial follows this sequence and the judge dictates the opening order of the oral trial we will characterise ourselves, as has already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u130	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u131	Mr. Darpón, I didn't ask you about being a person, but what I asked you is about doing the advice the house approved by this Plenus. I mean, about the way public administration has to be done. The one is the judicial and the other is the political road, and here also the business lies. You know, it's a responsibility. And if you have no will, you must know that we have registered another, and will bring it to the discussion in this assembly of inquiry, in order to fulfil these recommendations received by the committee, on the one hand, because it seems essential to us to establish the grounds for the exchange of health services. We need to strengthen the inner controls, we need to study and change the incompatibility of the past, to avoid such cases from the public administration, to apply to the health department with a certain amount of self-reproachable tolerance. It's time for you to go through words to action and now you have a chance to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u133	Mrs Ubera, look, I admit you criticise our management, I admit you tell me if we have a lot or little staff, I admit you tell me that if we privatize more or less, when the position of government is well known, what has been the management of the public health system and what all external actors think. What is not acceptable to me is that you question the transparency and honesty in the management that we are developing. Forgive me. With regard to the implementation of the recommendations adopted by the committee, which should not be confused with the particular vote of amendment, which was not approved by Parliament. So, with regard to the implementation of the recommendations approved by the committee, I will tell you that Osakidetza's waiting lists are managed directly by Osakidetza, by the public health services, by no external agents. All administrative procurement is carried out in accordance with the rules in force on public sector contracts, both from procurement in general and with respect to the fulfilment of the requirements of the contracting companies. And finally, for the third recommendation, regarding compatibility, Your Honor, there is a Basque public employment bill presented in this House. You may present the inquiry or non-legislative proposal you consider appropriate, but the recommendations are being complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u134	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interpologies, members of the Basque Socialists, Patxi Elola Azpeitia, made to the Chief of Environmental and Regional Policy, the Eukotren's services between Donostia and Urola Coast." Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u135	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief physician. We're here to discuss the tramo of Donostia-Deba and Deba-Donoste. It's the only tramo that Eukoten offers that doesn't have night service. I said frankly: Donostia-Deba, Deba-Donostia. We're surprised that you're going to bet on the night transport in Biscay, considering that the city's transport is fully extended and fixed. For the last years the Viscacious Fordun made a great effort to establish public service. But this time, and in this interpelation of ours, we are not only speaking of permanent transports, not only of leisure, of accidents or accidents, but of the promotion of the host, and of the promotion of commerce in general. What we're asking is from Hendaia to Devba (they come from Donostia, mostly French, but there are many others who come to Donostia from the net of the encounter, from the Oarso and from the upper part of Toulouse), all of them, those who come to the Donostia, to the coast, to the Deca, or to come and return by night. Klaro, as I have said, would go away and return at a more calm hour. You'll have the data, but I'll tell you how much of it affects it directly. Deban 5.450 inhabitants; Zumala, 11.488; At Getaria, 1.898; Zinga, 22.890; Aian and Orion, 5.694 and 2.036; Usurbilen, 6.368, and Lasart, 18082. Den, 73.709, and Donostian, 1886.082. Considering the area, both Donostia and the coast, that it doubles in summer, these numbers are much larger in summer and in holiday times and weeks. Recently, the Vice-Advisor of Tourism of the Basque Government said that one in five tourists visit Euskadi for their gastronomic offer, and not just for restaurants. It also referred to fishing-related companies, the fishing industry, and, among others, also referred to the Chocolate Museum. Well, look, counselor, restaurants in this area are many, from Aginaga, Orio, Zarautz, Getaria and Zumaia, famous and not so famous, that attract those tourists. But not just tourists, but here too. And companies related to fishing as well. Precisely it will be the area where possibly the most industry there are, especially the canneries, without forgetting Orio, Zumaia and Getaria. She also spoke to the vice-advisor of the Chocolate Museum, and is in Mendaro, where the gatrena ends after Deba, because precisely from Bilbao comes to Deba, but from Donosti you can not get there. Luegon es tamen hay ostro de razones para viscitar, como por ejemplo es el Museum Balenciaga, que est est est en Getari tambien; tenemos el Photomuseum de Zzazz... I believe, if I am not mistaken, that he is the only man in Spain; In Zumaia and Deba's phlysch a geological treasure, known throughout the world; now, from the last storm, they have found more riches, so that more people will come. The caves of Ekain and the caves of Decah [are] the inhabitants of the cliffs. And sporting and cultural events, infinity. We have from the races to the ball and surfing, very practiced especially in the area of Zarautz-Getaria. And let's not forget that this year is the year of the cultural of Donostia, the year 2016, with which the flow of users of the train in general will go up, or must be going up. We're also talking about marinas, we're talking about beaches (I'm not going to talk about my village). Y tampoco tenemos que olvidar Bilbo-Deba transfers. Also the Moors of Bilbo-Deba are cut off from Deban (they are of Greek, Eibar, Elgobar, and Mendaro, which I said before, Mendaro, that people in the Museum of chocolate, which the vice-presidents say must visit). And in this area, the direct cause is 41,000 people. But even small gestures, like the growth of night's service, would have a lot of profit to the advantage of small world corporations and populations. It seems that the Government of the Populative Party will not comply with its established deadlines. He said he'd fill it in 2019, and now the alarm's going to go on and see if they won't. It's easy to blame Madrid, but it's easy to say to you, to the Basque Government, to yourself, to the head of the department, to answer the request that so many people have made today in this interference, because we believe that some of the guitars are damaged in the public transport. Eta, gogoratuko dizuut, 2013an Legebiltzarreko batzordean onartutako legez bestesteko proposimena hau izan zen: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, continuing with the policy of adapting the supply of public transport to the existing demand, to study in the shortest possible time, and in a coordinated way with the Gipuzkoa Transport Authority, the need to increase the transport service through the Euskotren operator between San Sebastián and Urola Kosta-Bajo Deba, to attend sports and socio-cultural events, as well as weekends at night". After all this has been explained, you will understand the reason of our interaction. I'll tell you what to say. What are your departments for keeping Donostia and Urola coast-Debares still working in the Euscot's night service? Or, more precisely, what's the scheme of 'Muddy' in order that the whole country may have (if it's a drug network, of course)? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ella. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u137	Good morning, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Yes, by the 23rd march of September 2013, the Euskalion was asked to use the Gipuzian Transport Land Authority to increase the transportation service between Donostia and Ustola Coast, to supply the needs of sports, social and culture, even during the weekend nights. Thus, according to the usual procedure which is to be examined by the Eukot's assistant of the new service, he examined the possibilities and demands of such services. As a result of the application in the corridor specified, from the accumulated experience, the Eukot's suborduct given by the technicians decided that the request which was estimated in the given hours was not available to start a railway service. Nevertheless, some services were offered to supply the wants of special events, especially for concerts, and there was scarcely any demand. Considered by the special trains of the case of special events, the result of the demand and the result of the appeals of the Basque offer was confirmed by the consideration of the technical contractors, and it was decided that the service by the road would be more suitable for the movable necessities of the given hours. As far as Euskotren is concerned, it is the offer committee that analyses the desirability of the various hypothetical services. This offer committee, as you well know, is composed of Euskotren technicians, and also plans the service according to demand, the experience gained from previous occasions, the analogy with similar events. In addition to taking into account actual demand when establishing services, the social benefits of services are also taken into account. Together with the analysis of the demand of the global corridor of Urola-Kosta, Euskotren also makes a cost-income-demand estimate of the alternative night rail service of Saturday night between Zumaia and Donostia. The hypotheses of the service were: every Saturday of the year except for unique days such as Christmas and New Year, service every two hours in both directions, two train agents and a watchman for the material, a material circulating. This analysis also calculates the demand that this night service could have, using a real proportion existing in the line of the mole. Thus, it uses the relationship between the night of a feast Saturday of Donostia, from 10:00 p.m., to 7:00 p.m., and the night of a normal Saturday, establishing an analogy between a royal feast service of Donostia and the hypothetical demand of a Sabbath at night in the possible service that would be implanted. However, we get an employment rate of 14.30 %. As for the estimated number of users, it would amount to 64 per train, which means about 128 trips all night. If we take into account that there may be a transfer of travelers between Amara and Errekalde, from the current service of the mole to the coastal service, we could be talking about that we would have about 17 more travelers, about 34 more trips. Which would give us a total of 162 trips. All at the best of the hypotheses, and taking into account all night. The cost analysis shows that we would get a coverage rate of less than 10%. I remind you that the average rail mode in Euskotren is about 40%. Taking into account this estimate – which, I repeat, has been prepared by the supply committee of Euskotren, composed of experts in railway operations – it is understood that the implementation of this service would not meet the objectives of matching demand to supply, nor would it have justification in terms of socio-economic profitability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u139	Well, first of all, I have to thank you for the tone you used in your answer, because it seems to me today that I am very surprised by some of the answers I have heard from other colleagues, other Members of Parliament. From questioning a partner if she has been elected by the citizens, to telling another parliamentary colleague that she has been confused, so I am hallucinated. So, I appreciate the tone of your answer. Pero, well, I didn't like it, I didn't like the forms, but I didn't answer because I don't agree with the facts you gave me. I can't hire them because they never made a Deba-Donostia and the Night of Donostia. So you're talking about hypotheses. And I ask you: If these hypotheses had been used in the traversal of Bilbo-Bermé, would this tramoum be now established? That thing, as you know, according to your data... You answered a question Jesús Wides asked. The question was: "How much is the use-percent of the moment of service between Bermeaeus and Bilbo? "I don't know. 27,8. You said media 40, so that doesn't work. And would the resolutions which it takes to take from it (not hypothesis, as it were, with precise facts) take away the course of the Bilbo-Berme? We're not on that line in Bilbo-Bermé to take Gait's off, not much less. What we want, and I think I've reasoned enough not with facts, but what offer is given to the Doostians and the neighbours to Donostya, to Hedonia... We don't have those facts, but you're talking about hypothesis too. We can overcome these hypothesiss if we really try a summer, and if it is of complete loss we can remove it. But the loss isn't just economic, because you said first social utility. And what we're asking for... Well, I'm from here, as I've guessed, but what we're asking is social benefit to promote the economy. You can say: "Buela is made at night." But if you go out for a walk, you can't have a limited schedule, or you can have it, but according to the plan. Later on, this offer committee uses them... You said, and the other day, three weeks ago, I asked you for the reason of adding the train to the veil, and you said that the committee decided according to the request, or according to what it was supposed to be. Look, here come some demands from many people. You will know how the Central Council in 2014, with a single pleno (and then there were Aralar, Left Norice, Popular Party, Party Socialist, Eudu Party Jaldo, Collector,) agreed with one accord to make this request. And at the same time, in Zumai, it was exactly the same. So the local committee, who know the wants of their fellow citizens, hasn't made any demands, hasn't this subpoena taken into account? They didn't take it seriously? I think you should take a ride again. And don't just look at economic benefits. social. And there's no place for social benefits, a area, no way out. We think it must be so. And if you don't, bring me data. If you don't, then we'll begin to do that, we'd start asking for the use of all the tramoes to make real comparisons. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ella. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u141	You think we're going to serve the public as a complete agreement. But this public service does not always have to be the train. We have to serve the best public service, and that's why I said it. And of course we consider petitions, and of course we consider them here as well as other proposals and all these matters. And that's why we place it in the hands of the technical committee to examine it and see what request we have and what reports we have about it. Apart from all that had been said, this organization of the Eukotre's having a right on the highways suggested to him to examine: "To improve the transportation services on Saturday nights between Donostia and Urola Coast, in order to complete the rest of the regional services in Gipulia." This would be effected by means of road services, and the cost would be more proper, considering the character of the service. In point of fact, the service of the evening was intended to be completed by buss to connect to Zumia and Deba Donosti; for as to the difference between the appreciated demand for concerts and the real, the most prudent alternative that the bus gave, not only to guarantee motion, but to value the possible need for the railway service. I would also like to point out that in the renewal of the road concessions of the historical territory, the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council did not include the services proposed by Euskotren in the specifications governing the tenders, which we understand had taken into account the demand expected in the planning of the services. It has only decided that line UK9, Zumaia-Donostia, offers night services every hour. And the real demand is generally covered by a single bus, which reinforces Euskotren's decision. On the other hand, neither the Gipuzkoa Transport Authority nor the Gipuzkoa General Council have ever transferred the need for such services to us. In any case, Euskotren is offering numerous services to respond to special events that involve massive attendance: Real Society parties in Anoeta, Eibar parties, drums, concerts... Thus, Euskotren in 2015 has performed special services in more than 134 days, which correspond to more than a third of the days of the year, and has strengthened both the regular day and night services of Saturdays, as well as making available to users special night services on special days, on days when it had not provided for service. Of them, in Gipuzkoa have been more than 50 days, highlighting the services with matches in Anoeta and Ipurua, drums, races of La Concha, Behobia, Euskal Jaiak of Zarautz... And the special services for Urola Kosta have been 30. The assistants of Eukot and offer are working to offer the people the best service possible. To this end they endeavour to remain in all the actions which should be given an answer to a request. Besides, the means of optimizing politics, adapting them to the offer, adopt and determine what kind of transport is best adapted to mobile needs, examined from the security point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Munez de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popula, made for the chief division of the regional and the politics of the country, about the works of spreading Gastian trams." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, "it's never late if the bliss is good," or "it's better late than never," or we could go on. It seems, Madam Counsellor, that at last steps are taken to expand the tram in Vitoria. This Wednesday the public information was published of the informative study of the south enlargement of the tram, the first phase. Counselor, you asked, in a medium of communication that you like so much, urgency to start the works already to some administration. And I ask you, Counselor: What deadlines and actions does the Counselor handle to start the works? Which administrations are involved and how? What budget are we talking about, and what amount does each administration have? Does your department, you, have an economic readiness at this time to face the execution of this work?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u145	Yes, Mrs López de Ocariz, I am glad that you are satisfied that we are taking steps in this matter. I will tell you that they are now more visible steps, while we have in the newsletter on Wednesday of this week the informative study of the tram to the university. That means we have a lot of work behind us that isn't in the newsletter. To get to the newsletter you have to do a lot of previous work. We therefore have the tram, the extension to the university, the information study, and we are also making progress with the drafting of the construction projects, which must incorporate everything that comes from the allegations or proposals that come to us, from the information study that is currently on public display for thirty working days. You ask me about our intentions. Well, our intention is to continue taking steps. Indeed, we have sufficient budgetary appropriations to address our share of this action. And what we have been proposing and what we have been demanding, from the City of Vitoria in particular (well, from the other institutions), is the formalization of a financing agreement for this tram, with the model that we have followed in the construction of the tram of Vitoria on previous occasions; that is, 65 % the Basque Government and 35 % the local administrations (the City of Gasteiz and the Foral Diputación de Álava). We are working on that agreement, and we will continue to take steps. After the informative study, as I said, the constructive project, and then, bidding. Before we reach that tender, we must have closed the financing agreement. These are the steps that we take by the order that corresponds to them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u147	Counselor, talk about previous work. What we have seen and what we have seen is that of an entire legislature, marring the loss with transport and mobility in Vitoria, and an entire legislative blank. From the mobility work table arises the possibility of an agreement to study the extension of the tram to the campus, to Salburua, the peripheral BRT, the electric bicycle..., what we called the last mile solution. They then insist that an urgent study should be carried out for the BRT. Then, in his day, before this and a while ago, an engineering was hired to study the south branch; the engineering elaborated the study, and talked about two phases, or a whole journey that was to the Palace of Justice, where he said that the first stage was viable and the second stage was not. Then they agreed to study Salburua's branch, because this study was not viable. Then, in 2015, the council drafted the convention for the study of the BRT, plus the tram of Salburua, plus the electric bicycle, between the Basque government, the deputy and the city council, which was drafted but which the Basque government did not sign. Counselor, why have you not signed this agreement that the city council drafted? Why didn't you sign it? We'd like you to explain it to us, Counselor. But, counselor, as I was saying, you have not signed this agreement, and then, for the sake of "what do I do?", now takes the first phase of that study that did the engineering and brings it out to advertising. A job that you didn't do, that you found done, right? So, counselor, this is really improvising. This is really improvising. This is about transport and doing nothing. Yeah, filling up newspaper sheets, that's right. We advertise, we advertise, but we don't do anything else. And now you urge the City Council of Vitoria to agree. You know where the stones are in the City of Vitoria, because the PNV chose a bad government for the city of Vitoria, a government for the city of Vitoria with which Vitoria loses, and the Victorians lose. And you know where the stone is on that path, and you know it's not going to get, because it's a mortgaged government. So, counselor, don't open up channels of electoral propaganda, when you know they're not viable. I wish they were, but everything points to that project being held in the City Hall of Vitoria. That's why you give that urgency to the City Council of Vitoria, but you know it's not going to be possible. I hope so, from our group we are available, but it is that you have chosen a bad government for Vitoria. And, counselor, you speak of the BRT in Vitoria, you speak of the BRT in San Sebastian... Are you competent to do the BRT?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u149	Mrs López de Ocariz, it is clear to me that you do not like to see me in the newspapers. I am sorry, because we work hard, and we work to solve and improve the problems, in this case the mobility of our territory, and to help the municipalities also in the resolution of the mobility of the cities, combined with the territory. And you know it. You know that we work on that, and that we work a lot, and that we have worked for a long time. Therefore, we will continue to be in the newspapers, because we are going to see things, as we have been seeing for the past three years, which we are doing in this and other matters, and which have their reflection in the media, obviously. I don't know if we have a bad government or a good municipal government, but what I do have very clear is that these jobs... And the Mobility Table with the City Council of Vitoria is set up with Mayor Javier Maroto more than three years ago. We took a number of steps; we couldn't reach a financing agreement with Mayor Javier Maroto either. Since we have the new municipal government we have continued to take steps, and at this moment we are, as I said before, with the informative study, project... Next step, bidding. That is why I insist that what remains for us to close is funding, which is guaranteed by the Government, and which is pending to define the agreement of the municipal groups. In any case, I am happy, because I come reading and listening today in the different media that Mr Maroto (of his group, of his political party) supports this tram and supports this route.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-08.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Your time is up. Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty.
