ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u0	Good morning to all of them. We'll start the whole meeting. Please sit down, everyone in your seats. First point in theme list: "Ostuna and Consultation on the bill of legislation on board of addiction and drug addiction. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Darpón, you're the one with the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. I compare to present the bill on addictions, adopted by the Governing Council on 9 December 2014, which is presented today in plenary for adoption as a law on comprehensive treatment of addictions and drug addictions. First of all, I'd like to say that it's a great pleasure for me to have a new rule about this Euskádin. With this new law, we shall be enabled to support the health of all men from this day forward, especially the minor classes of society. It is also a fundamental rule to establish and strengthen our preventive standard. We believe that this is precisely the area of priority action in relation to addictions and drugs. In fact, our proposal is to intervene from a public health approach in order to optimize the effectiveness of prevention and promotion of healthy lifestyles. I would like to recall that three years ago this plenary approved the 2013-2020 Health Plan, which provides a cross-sectoral perspective for public policies to be developed to improve people's health. I refer to the health approach in all policies as a priority strategy along with the promotion of healthy behaviors to respond to people's health needs. This new law will help address the phenomenon of alcohol consumption by minors, which, as you know, is one of the issues that has concerned us and occupied us throughout the legislature. Also to address so-called behavioural addictions, which have not been covered by current legislation, as well as new products, such as nicotine release devices, and, above all, to deepen the rights and duties of people who use drugs or those who exhibit excessive behaviour at risk of generating addictions. As your ladies and gentlemen know, the approach to addictions has undergone enormous changes over the years, evolving uses and consumption, as well as the social perception of the phenomenon. We will all remember how in those 60-70s we began to see new consumptions and samples of consumption-protest. There were also the first symptoms of alarm and heroin intrusion in a society that considered alcohol and tobacco consumption normalized. From there we passed to the 80's, the decade in which the social alarm began, along with a great public insecurity assiduous to drugs...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u2	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u3	Thank you, President. ... Which brought with it public policy responses. But also then the therapeutic approaches began to spread. The phenomenon mainly affected young people and was accompanied by the AIDS epidemic. The institutional response in Euskadi was intense. In 81, the DAK, Coordinating Centre for Drug Addictions, was established; in 82, the I. Action plan in Euskadi; in 84, the implementation of the interdepartmental and parliamentary committees; in 86, the General Secretariat for Drugs and Drug Addiction was established; and in 87, the White Paper on Drugs and Drug Addiction in Euskadi. A year later, the first law on drugs was agreed on this legislature. This law was one of the first in the whole state. The 1990s brought with them new synthetic drugs, the decline in heroin and cocaine consumption, the rise in alcohol consumption among young people, especially since the end of the decade, and increased social awareness of the phenomenon, as well as a normalization of the response to the different needs arising from addictions. This was evident in the Basque law of 1998 which amended the previous law of 1988 and which relied on a comprehensive approach, a Community strategy and planning and coordination between the different public administrations. The law of the Institution of Euscadicus was also adopted in those years. This law gives a pre-eminence to promote and strengthen the health of the people to the public institutions of Eucata. From the year 2000 the fight against tobacco is consolidated, new patterns of alcohol consumption arise, such as bottle and intensive consumption on the weekend, and new addictions begin to be discussed while devices such as electronic cigarettes burst. In recent years, the Basque law has been amended in matters relating to tobacco in order to adapt it, on the one hand, to the requirements of the World Health Organization, also of the European Union, and to the basic legislation of the State, with the aim of protecting the health of all persons, but with particular emphasis on hospitality workers and minors, which has taken an important step in the defence of public health. As a result of these changes, of the normative advances, of the successive plans of addictions promoted by the government and municipalities, of the work carried out by non-profit organizations in this field and also of the development and dissemination of knowledge in this field, today in Euskadi are a reality the growing role of the prevention and promotion of health, the general improvement...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u4	Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u5	...of well-being and quality of life...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u6	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u7	... the general improvement of people's well-being and quality of life, the incorporation of new therapeutic modalities to address addictions and new patterns of consumption, the equity and effectiveness of existential resources and the drive for research. They are also a reality, and we must be proud of, programs and resources such as the methadone program, the supervised consumption room, the syringe exchange program, the different socio-health programs, the safe sex program, etc. Effective and targeted strategies to reduce the physical, psychological and social risks and damage associated with drug use. To place the context, as the end of this exercise, I shall give some explanation of the situation in regard to substances and conducts, and I shall consider the data the latter polls give me. These surveys are mainly the Euskadi-Drugs 2012 survey, Drugs and School and the 2013 CAPV health survey. Thus, by providing them with some data, the trend towards reducing some general indicators of consumption has been consolidated with regard to alcohol. Since 2000, the percentage of people drinking alcohol every day has been around 12.2%, especially adult males. With regard to weekend consumption, 11.3% of the population is considered to be overdrinking or at risk, although the most worrying is that among young people between the ages of 15 and 24 the percentage is 25%. There has been an increase in the proportion of people who consume at-risk or excessive alcohol both on working days and on weekends. As far as tobacco is concerned, we are successful in this area and currently 25.7% of the population is considered a regular smoker and 5.4 states that this is done sporadically, so 68.8% of people between the ages of 15 and 74 do not smoke, although a third have done so in the past. Since 2012, the trend of the last decade towards a slow but gradual decline in tobacco consumption has been consolidated and the proportion of people who have never smoked has also increased, and very especially and successfully among the younger population. As far as cannabis is concerned, its consumption has decreased significantly in recent years, but we must not lose sight of the fact that Euskadi is still among the regions and countries with higher consumption rates in the European Union, the highest prevalence among young people aged 15 to 24, is about 16.4%, and most of them are men rather than women. As regards other illegal substances, there is a clear decrease, their experimental consumption fell from 14 % to 8 % between 2004 and 2012, except for re-resuming heroin. Cocaine and amphetamines are still the most widely used illegal drugs in Euskadi. As far as gambling is concerned, lotteries, quinielas and the like are the most common gambling, 53% of the people say they played some of them last year. The prevalence of other betting games, such as coin machines, bingo, etc. is considerably lower. As regards the use of the Internet, around 3% of the population is connected for five hours or more per day. More than 13.7% of the population use less but more intensive use, between two and three hours a day. Once I have briefly reviewed Euskadi's historical course on addictions and after briefly recalling the current situation, I would like to share with your ladies and gentlemen why we have drawn up and requested the adoption of a new law on addictions. They are aware that the legislative programme of the Basque Nationalist Party envisaged the adoption of a bill on addictions. A comprehensive project that is advanced and responsive to the needs of today's society. If until recently everything related to drugs would be dealt with from perspectives and areas more appropriate to its consequences, public order, health care or social services, with this new legal text, its approach is intended from public health, focusing more on the causes than the consequences. And above all, from a cross-sectional and multidimensional perspective. From all its related fields: community, family, education, work, the judiciary, etc. An integrative, planned and global vision in a normalized way. As a Department of Health, we have worked on thinking about the health of people living in Euskadi. Presenting a proposal for a legal text that clearly bets on the prevention and promotion of health, but which in good logic also includes the rest of the aspects. We are convinced that, after being worked by this Parliament, we also have a text that is in line with the beliefs, preferences and perceptions of the Basque society as a whole. I'd like to give some directions to explain how we've worked this law. I would like to point out that the most current international references, the WHO, the European Union's Drugs Strategy, the European Drug Report 2013, have been taken into account, and legislation and regulations have also been consulted on both the European environment and the autonomous communities and on the local level. We have also used experts and entities who regularly collaborate with the Government in this area, such as the Documentation and Studies Centre of the Eguía-Careaga Foundation, the Deusto Institute of Drug Addictions or the Basque Institute of Criminology. It should be noted that the preliminary draft was sent to all departments of the Basque Government, to 45 institutions and entities and was presented in Irekia. Efforts have been made to structure the text systematically, using terminology appropriate to the current situation. It is also noteworthy that this text has been written simultaneously in Basque and Spanish, so the proposal was not a translation from one language to another. And the gender perspective has been present throughout the process. The main areas of the new law are: health promotion and prevention, supply reduction, social inclusion, health and social health care, knowledge development and management, institutional organization and competition distribution, infringements and sanctions. Its contents are detailed throughout 96 articles distributed in eight titles, two additional provisions, a transitional provision, a derogation and two finals. The preliminary title provides a theoretical framework, objectives, definitions and general principles, as well as the basic foundations of the model of prevention and attention to addictions. The first title focuses on the prevention of addictions and drug addictions, and on the promotion of health, as the central axis of the administration's actions. Health education is seen as a basic strategy and action is being taken in all related areas. Measures of both a general nature and measures directed at groups or persons at risk are described. I would also like to highlight the approach of involvement and collaboration of all Community institutions and other sectors, such as municipalities, communes, educational centres, sociocultural services, associations, volunteering, work centres, health systems, social services, etc. The second title refers to the reduction in supply. As far as tobacco is concerned, it generally maintains existing legislation and also provides for the equalisation of nicotine elimination devices. With regard to alcohol, the consumption of alcoholic beverages to minors is prohibited expressly, and the sale or supply of alcohol in all types of sports facilities is prohibited. Also, persons under 16 years of age may not enter closed public establishments serving alcoholic beverages, unless they are accompanied by their officials. The bill also prohibits the outdoor advertising of alcoholic beverages of more than 20 degrees and may not be advertised less than 100 metres from educational institutions in Children, Primary or Secondary. In terms of the game and the excess of digital technologies, awareness-raising and awareness-raising measures are mainly envisaged for the responsible use of digital technologies and their new applications. The third title deals with health and social health care. Social inclusion appears as its own entity in the fourth title. Later on, the fifth title unifies aspects that are disseminated in the current legislation and details measures in the field of knowledge management. It provides for information on addictions by the Health, Social, Educational and Labour Administration. It provides an impetus for research and training in this area and provides for the evaluation of public programmes. The sixth title refers to the organization and planning, and concretely the responsibilities and competences of the different institutions concerned, mainly Government, outlaws and municipalities, adapting the institutional and coordination architecture. As a matter of interest, the current inter-departmental commission becomes an inter-institutional commission, composed of the Government, deputies and municipalities. Title 7 refers to infringements and sanctions. And I'm about to finish. In my opinion, it must be remarked that in all these months the work of the Basque Parliament is to be done. The text of the bill that we have tabled in its day has been the subject of intensive analysis by the various parliamentary groups, which have tabled more than 230 partial amendments. They have all been worked through 12 meetings in the presentation. Today, therefore, intense work has been completed, over three years old, both in the Executive and in the Legislature, as well as by administrations, entities and agents who have contributed to the comprehensive law of addictions and drug addictions. I do not want to conclude without my last words being of thanks to you and to all the people, collectives and institutions who have worked to make it possible for Euskadi today to have a regulation which, above all, aims to respond effectively to the current and future needs and expectations of people and our society in terms of addictions and which, moreover, is entangled with the intense and good work that, for 30 years, has been done by the Basque institutions to address such a complex and changing phenomenon. You and all of them, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u8	Thank you, chief physician. Is it decided that some member of the board should present a proposal? No. Passing the teams, Mistto. It's your word, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u9	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to you all, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. The law currently in force is from 1998 and has undergone three changes since then. It was and is clear that this 1998 law had to be updated because many things have changed since then and because that law focused almost exclusively on alcohol, illegal drugs and ludopathy. Today there are many new elements: all the new provisions on tobacco, the appearance of electronic cigarettes, substanceless or behavioural addictions, and new technologies and video games, among others. Therefore, it seemed opportune to introduce a new law that would completely replace the previous one rather than go to new modifications, as had been done so far to patch up the old regulations. We have tabled 24 amendments. Of these 24 amendments, during the work done in the paper and in the committee, they have been accepted or fucked 7. Therefore, we maintain 17. Some of our amendments sought to give greater importance to behavioural addictions; to stop euphemisms from euphemisms with electronic cigarettes and to call it so, as the European Union does; to make their use more flexible in certain places; to equate all alcoholic beverages, regardless of their alcoholic strength; to make the issue of drinking and smoking less stringent in the street; to allow smoking in the gastronomic societies whose partners consider it appropriate; to limit the complex network of commissions, councils, bodies provided for by law and, above all, to limit and clarify the distribution of competences between the Basque Government, outlaws, municipalities and municipalities. Some ideas throughout this process, reflected in these amendments put forward by UPyD, have been accepted. Otherwise, we keep those who have not been admitted or fucked. Issues that we share in the report. We share above all what is related to the approach of the law, which is more open to new addictions and no longer refers almost exclusively to drug addictions. The former law was very focused on this, since at that time it was the most worrying thing about society. We highly share the model of prevention and promotion of health, health care, socio-health and community addictions. If we talk more about behavioral and substance-free addictions, we quote them in many articles of the law, but, in our opinion, we have not just made too much concrete about their prevention and treatment, as if they were afraid to admit, recognize and quote expressly certain addictions – addictions to food, addictions to shopping or addictions to sex – beyond the classic addictions to gambling, video games and new technologies. Issues that we do not share in the report. The distinction in many items of drinks of more than 20 degrees in promotion, outdoor advertising, sporting events, dispensing and selling places or schedules. We do not share this, this distinction that is made permanently in the law. We find it deeply hypocritical to allow you to consume drinks of less than 20 degrees without limit and, however, it is forbidden to take a shot of pacharan, by putting a simple example that most of you will understand perfectly. For example, alcoholic beverages of less than 20 degrees are allowed in educational establishments for persons over 18 years of age – university, adult education centres – so students can drink before entering class four canes and a pair of vermous, but they cannot take a pachara shot. It seems contradictory, it seems something that does not marry reality, it seems to be a hypocritical thing. In the shops of the highways and highways you can sell wine, but not cognac; and in those of the conventional roads of everything, because they are not quoted. In our opinion, it doesn't make much sense. And you can also advertise wine and beer outdoors, and even in sports stadiums, but not in higher-grade drinks. This also seems contradictory to us. Alcoholic beverages cannot be sold in shops between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Nor do we understand the reason why this is included in the law that will finally be passed. On the other hand, especially we do not like the sixth title, where institutional organization, coordination, etc. is embodied. It is said that in this area all institutions – Basque Government, outlaws, municipalities – have competences. The Basque Government has to make a plan on addictions, but also in its territories and municipalities, that is, we will have a multitude of plans. And for everything to work, there has to be an inter-agency coordinating commission, that is, another body on the multiple smaller bodies. A support and assistance body is envisaged to provide technical support to the Coordination Commission and a Basque Addictions Council, with no fewer than 50 representatives. It is also said that parliaments and municipalities may establish other bodies for coordination, consultation, advice, participation and the establishment of more specialized bodies or commissions. In conclusion, it is a necessary law because reality has changed, rather well focused on issues of prevention and assistance, but that leads to an issue such as addictions the whole Basque scheme of institutional organization and its framework and that which so much likes for these places to create many organs, commissions, subcommittees, councils and councils. Finally, we are going to abstain in connection with this law. We would have liked to have better regulation and a less politically correct law in some of its aspects. In any case, obviously, we hope that this law will serve to have a healthier society. Having said that, and beyond our position on certain amendments that have been tabled, perhaps they are finally voted together, I would like to make it clear that we are going to vote in favour of two specific amendments by the Basque Nationalist Party, one of them having sex with the People's Party. I am referring to amendments relating to Article 93 on sanctions and on the replacement of sanctions for courses and work for the benefit of the community. At this point let's say there were two transactions: one signed by the Socialist Group and EH Bildu, and one signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party. Finally, we will vote in favour of this second, because it seems to me to be more complete than the first. And with regard to Article 68.1e, powers, we will finally also vote on the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party, which is also more reasonable. I think that's how we break two possible ties. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u10	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Barrio, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u11	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, counselors, counselors, good morning to you all. We are at the final stage of the bill on comprehensive treatment of addictions and drug addictions, and before this final stage of the project that we have discussed and studied in the Health Commission and in the corresponding presentation, with work, indeed, intense, as the Councillor has also recalled. Our group has tabled 110 amendments at the time and they have served. There have been vicissitudes, agreements, convictions that have led us to maintain a good number of amendments. Although primarily in a chapter, in which there is no substantive discrepancy, because it is the aspect of infringements and sanctions, where our claim was to homogenize Basque regulation with Law 28/2005 on Health Measures against Tobacco, we wanted a search for greater legal certainty, but the issue was not fundamental to us in that regard. It has been an interesting work that of the paper, a fruitful work to a large extent, there has been a constructive spirit in the paper, although we do not share some aspects in the text that comes to this plenary, for different reasons that I will make at a time. But it was clear that we had to make a parliamentary effort and a political effort. In this Parliament, when we have dealt with the issue of drugs, I remember that because I have been on this subject for many years, there has always been a unitary action fundamentally and a conception of work to improve public health, to prevent the health of children and young people, to adapt to new realities in the fight against drugs, in the neutralisation of the effects of different consumption habits and practices. Indeed, we have already remembered here the walk, the iter that has carried the matter of the regulation of drugs through its laws, but also through its three-year plans...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u12	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u13	Thank you, President. There have been many plans. At first, you will remember some of you, it was three-year plans that addressed this matter, then it was five-year plans, and in that sense good has been worked out, as I say, for a long time, in unison, generally, with counted discrepancies, of course, there have always been, but understanding that we had to move forward and adapt to the needs and times, and that public health, the health of all of us, was a priority, and that what we did, despite certain discomforts, was to move forward on that path. As we said in the committee, the bill was initially somewhat maximalistic. We do not mean that he was removed from reality at first, but rather in a bit of a maximalist. And now we understand that, after the presentation process, it is more connected with that society, with that reality at the moment. Well, that's what parliamentary work is for, and that's what agreements and amendments to projects are for. The bill started without amendments in its entirety, which is a symptom of the fact that certain agreements could be reached. And for our group this has been the approach, although logically we have to maintain our discrepancy fundamentally in some aspects, also that discrepancy based on legality. Mainly in article 83 of the draft, which regulates the entities of persons who consume cannabis, the well-known social cannabis clubs. Similarly, we maintain amendments regarding the regulation of so-called electronic cigarettes, as regulated in articles 42 to 47 of the bill. As far as electronic cigarettes are concerned, we have a less restrictive view than the text of the draft, and we continue to have it, so we maintain our amendments. We proposed a compromise, an agreement, but it was not accepted by you, and we therefore maintain the amendments. Comparing the use of electronic cigarettes to the use of tobacco seems to us to be excessive, given scientific positions, some of which even consider these devices to be alternatives to tobacco. It is an open debate but we did not want to link the use of electronic cigarettes so restrictively to the use of tobacco and to do so in a homogeneous way. We thought that a compromise could have been reached, which we proposed, but it was not possible. That is why we do maintain those amendments. As far as cannabis social clubs are concerned, we believe that it is not appropriate to regulate them through a standard such as the one we are studying today. Not applicable. There is a legal basis for understanding that this cannot be the case and with the initial documentation of the project we had the opportunity to know two ministerial reports, one from the Ministry of Justice and the other from the Ministry of the Interior, which analyzed the origin or not of regulating the practice of drug use, such as cannabis, in so-called social cannabis clubs. And the conclusions in those reports are clearly negative. The conclusion was that the draft that we are studying, the bill on addictions, falls within the scope of an area whose regulation is exclusively the responsibility of the State, I say, of social cannabis clubs, in terms of competence in criminal legislation, as well as public safety and pharmaceuticals. That corresponds to articles 149.1, 16 and 29 of that article. I think the reports are very clear. It's a problem we're going to have with this law. We are certainly not going to support that article 83. I believe that the great mistake of this bill is that it seeks to regulate an issue that it cannot regulate. I hope that other bodies – in Spain, in Europe – will reflect on this situation and on this type of entity, on social cannabis clubs! I wish it were done! But with the current legislation in hand, an autonomous law cannot address this regulation. That is why we understand that we should oppose an article, such as article 83, which cannot be regulated by this bill, by this law in the end. Finally, the bulk of our amendments, as I said at the beginning, referred to different considerations within the title of "Infringements and sanctions", in which my group sought – I say again –, without entirely diverging from what is regulated in the bill, a homogenization with Law 28/2005, law known as Anti-Tobacco Law, Measures against Tobacco, its supply, consumption... And we thought that in favour of legal certainty, since it would also be a good thing to homogenise these kinds of issues, which have to be dealt with in the area of infringement and sanction. But I say again, it is not a fundamental issue within what is the progress that, apart from these three circumstances, we have found in the legislative procedure. We must also stress, and that is true, and that is why we have worked seriously and rigorously, like all of us, but we must also stress that a good number of our amendments have tried to fine-tune, have sought technical improvements, improvements in style or drafting in the law itself, of legislative rigour when it comes to improving texts. Ladies and gentlemen, except in the areas mentioned, we share the objectives of this law and the need to continue to work among all to improve the health of citizens. Surely within a few years we will have to review the subject of drug dependence, the subject of addictions and there will be new social, health, educational conditions of new habits, which will lead us to reform. I believe that the path this Parliament has taken has been interesting, as we have seen before, to go through this matter somewhat devoid of ideological approaches and getting a bit into the needs. In any case, I repeat that it has been a good job and that we maintain our amendments and the way in which they are managed, as the Bureau has already proposed to us; and that in relation to the other articles of the other groups, I shall then propose the separate vote on some of Mr Maneiro's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u14	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Sarasia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u15	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. The work being carried out within the Basque parliamentary framework and from society in general itself on legislation on the prevention, assistance and insertion of drug addictions and addictions must be recognized. As the Councillor has rightly said, this law which came to this Parliament in time and since December 2014 we have been discussing it long and extensively, and I do not say that it has been easy, because it has not been easy, but it is true that we have achieved a quite satisfactory framework of agreement, at least for the Basque Socialist Group. And of course, I want to thank all the groups, because I have to say that the debate has not been simple. The first drug addiction law was adopted in 1988 with a pedagogical and intervention approach in terms of prevention and reintegration. Since then, 26 years have passed and has been reformed on three occasions; the last was in 2011 at the time of the socialist government. The social phenomenon of drugs and addictions is a changing phenomenon, and we therefore believe that it is necessary to adapt to the new realities. And I say to the new realities and to give answers also from this legislative area. This new law introduces the concept of health promotion, which we socialists value very positively, but it is also important – and I think we have to say this – to make it clear that the phenomenon of drug use and addictions not only has that aspect, but also has another more social aspect, so the Basque Socialists are presenting a total of 64 amendments with the intention of improving the original text and giving it a more social approach. In the course of the presentation we managed to incorporate 49 – some were accepted in their entirety and others were fucked with the groups –, we withdrew 11 and we kept alive for this debate 6. Health professionals differentiate between addiction and drugs, and the World Health Organization and the European Strategy on Drug Control do not talk only about addiction, they also talk about drugs. That is why we consider it opportune to change the title of the law, and finally the law goes on to be called the law of comprehensive care in the area of drugs and addictions. In the explanatory statement we have also incorporated some important considerations that have been necessary for the development of the presentation itself and the changes that have been made in the article. With regard to the article, we have incorporated very important concepts that were not included in the preliminary draft into the definitions of article 7. We need to talk about comprehensive care, damage prevention, risk reduction, drug dependence and prevention, which we cannot give up. In the field of prevention, we have emphasized the need to consider the regulation of actions that protect third parties from harm that can be caused both by the use of drugs and other substances with addictive capacity and by behavioural addictions, with special consideration for minors and young people, as well as for persons in situations of special vulnerability or exclusion; to create conditions that favour adapted preventive actions in the family sphere, that are inspired by the principle of positive parenthood, that in addition to reconciling work and family life, there is talk of co-responsibility, and therefore this objective should be a purpose of family intervention, especially when it is intended that various bodies and entities are involved; to give more concrete expression to Community prevention as a space for interventions within the framework of a comprehensive policy, enhancing the improvement of personal skills and coexistence, and to use the working environment as a useful mechanism for disabling the consumption of substance or behaviours that are at risk of generating behavioural addictions in the samework , but to promote access to the preservation of the personconcerned. As far as alcoholic beverages are concerned, it should be noted that the law prohibits the sale to minors, and that is why it is very important to control the supply. For this reason and on the basis of the recommendations of the scientific community which points out the need to reduce the access of minors and young people to alcohol consumption and to set up a stricter regime than is currently the case, in article 28.1, on advertising in the field of alcoholic beverages, the socialists have incorporated the prohibition of external advertising of alcoholic beverages in supports located at a distance of less than 100 metres linear to the access gates in the educational institutions of children's, primary and secondary education. In Article 35.5, concerning the sale in the supply of alcoholic beverages in commercial establishments not intended for immediate consumption of alcoholic beverages, irrespective of their schedule, the sale is not allowed from 22:00 until 07:00 the following day. In addition, the Basque Socialists have gone much further, obliging these establishments by law to take special control measures to prevent the sale of alcoholic beverages to persons under 18 years of age. In self-service establishments, the exposure of alcoholic beverages shall be carried out in a specific section, shall be placed from a minimum height of one and a half metres and with a window surface restriction: not more than 20 %. Self-service can have the drinks behind a bar, if their sale is controlled by a person, or in a key case. In addition, where there is a ban on the supply and sale of alcoholic beverages, the corresponding sign of the ban must be displayed in a perfectly visible place, and this was not covered by the preliminary draft and we have included it. As far as alcohol consumption is concerned, we understand the Government's concern about the bottle and uncontrolled consumption on the public road, but it is also true that the bottle is possible to regulate it through municipal ordinance. The Government intended to solve this problem by allowing drinking alcohol only in bars, terraces and wake-up callers. And we considered this measure to be excessive and unreasonable. We therefore support the amendment to delete the point in the article where this was specified. With regard to the consumption of regulated tobacco, article 40.1 prohibits smoking in all enclosed and semi-closed spaces for public use, places accessible to the general public, or places of collective use, regardless of their public and private ownership. And we have managed to reach agreement with all groups, to specify, however, that, in the case of closed and semi-closed spaces of private ownership but of public use, tobacco consumption may be expressly permitted by majority agreement of the members in the statutory rules governing the activity of the holder, which must be without profit and not include in its social object or activities the marketing or sale of any of the consumable goods or products. With regard to the regulation of entities, people of cannabis users, recognizing that the work in the parliamentary presentation was also very important and the law frames the possibility of regulating legally registered social cannabis clubs – which the Socialist Group has added this – within the scope of health protection and also of harm reduction and regular – as I said – a regulation in the case of older persons who consume at the same time being asked to cooperate with the Administration in the prevention and promotion of responsible consumption. There are six amendments reserved by the Socialist Group. Paragraph 8, we call for the deletion of article 2.4, where we consider it inappropriate that excessive conduct today, not conceptualized as behavioral addictions, be regulated by law. It can become an open door to many interventions that would distort the interventions themselves in this field, and this is not baladi. The number 28, in article 27.1, we also consider it more appropriate to regulate the promotion of alcoholic beverages at sample fairs, in similar activities, without specifying graduation, and that promotion is carried out in separate and differentiated spaces, and that access to minors is not allowed, unless accompanied by adult persons. And that in the entrance and in the visible place, a sign should be placed that warns of such a prohibition. As the law that we are going to vote on here is drafted, minors are forbidden access to places where the consumption of alcoholic beverages of more than 20 degrees is promoted, without including any exceptions for them, for those promotions that have as their object the drinks of less graduation. This wording could create confusion and convey that the spirit of the legislator is to allow free and indiscriminate access for minors to the promotion of wine, cider and beer. We have interpreted that from the Socialist Group; that is why we eliminated discrimination. Amendment No 31, to Article 28.3, allows the advertising of alcoholic beverages of less than 20 degrees – i.e. wine, cider, chacolis, beers... – and again discriminates by graduation. The current law does not differentiate graduation. There may be sports facilities and events attended only by adults, but the majority of sports facilities, which come from sports facilities, are minors. We believe that, since the consumption of alcoholic beverages in sports facilities and centres is prohibited, we would also have to protect the child by following the same advertising policy. Amendment No 60 concerns the composition of the Basque Council on Addictions. To date, there were two participants in the School Council: one representing the teacher and the other representing the parents. This law reduces it to one and eliminates the participation of parents, which we have considered should not be done, because it is an important part. The compromise amendments that we have saved for this debate with EH Bildu, one is Article 68.1.e, concerning the exercise of the powers of inspector and sanctioner in the terms provided for in this law, which would correspond to the municipalities. And we have added, "always and when they have the resources necessary to exercise that power." In the current law, article 54 regulates the powers of inspection and punishment, and provides that the inspection and control function shall be carried out by the units of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community, in matters of promotion, advertising and sale and consumption of tobacco. Alcohol is also incorporated into this law. Personnel performing the inspection functions would be considered an official of the authority. We understand that giving control and inspection to a city council that has no resources because it would be meaningless. Finally, the compromise amendment to the new Article 23. It would read as follows: "The fines imposed on minors may be replaced in accordance with Article 88.4 by the inclusion of the offender in training and information programmes related to addictions". Socialists eliminate work for the benefit of the community, because we consider it much more pedagogical and much more effective to take them to training and information programs and, in this way, to bet on prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u16	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, guests, good days. In this case, we will accept the law for the full attention of addiction and drug addiction once and for all. It wasn't a short process, we had to make a long way to get here. Many of the agents and representatives who have passed the medical committee have given their opinion to the improvement of this law. Besides, these several sects of Parliament have enriched this law by our justices and labors in power. And today is the result of this long journey. At first EH Collect was very clear that the law sent by the Government did not agree with our judgement, because we identified several points which were at first unacceptable. That's why it's our main goal to turn these points together to match our judgment. And, fortunately, we must say that at first we have succeeded in the object specified. We wish to point out that all the almost all the corrections of the EH Collect have been approved by the obstacles. In like manner, we desire to point out, that our conduct in the execution of this law has been fully proposed and a builder, because our principal labour has been to improve the law. Therefore we are convinced that the law which we now accept is much nearer to the people than the first proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u18	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u19	Thank you. And when we mention being close to the people, it's because we've given them the importance of the people. When we say "the people," we mean "all the people," because the texts sent by the Government originally considered only the traditional family, and we believe that this law ought to unite all kinds of families. Though it may seem foolish, the language of a law is of its importance; On the other hand, we have considered in this law the importance of the work of the third sector, especially of prevention, assistance, and intervention in the field of drug addiction. As I said, we've considered that job, and that's why, in a certain sense, we've pushed the work of the third sector into the organizations, including the others. On the other hand, EH Collector considers it indispensable to consider the point of view in the genus. Hence we have succeeded in considering this point of view by our conduct, or by our sources, at the moment of the evaluation of the pretty ones, and the manner which they lead to the understandings. It is good news that in this law we receive some of the most important changes, which belongs to the distribution of the hand, to the distribution of our attentions and conducts without substance. Like a pathological game. We must state that the ungovernable attentions are more and more frequent, that which is not to-day may be a serious problem in the future, and we have put the means to avoid it by our conduct. On the other hand, as far as the Kalamuck is concerned, this law receives what was agreed on the basis of the litigation of this legislature, and therefore EH Collect has respected and proposed no change. We are about to pass a law containing 96 important articles, without doubt each and every one of them, but it is also true that there have been few articles that have had an impact and, without a doubt, those that have had the most on alcohol and tobacco. That is why EH Bildu also wants to clarify some aspects. We applaud and support that the ban on smoking or drinking alcoholic beverages in sports venues applies equally to all people, regardless of where they sit or the locality they occupy, sit in a step or occupy a armchair in a VIP area or a VIP stage. It must be admitted that until the passage of this law that did not happen, therefore, it ends with certain privileges that we did not share or share. With regard to Txokos or gastronomic societies, thanks to the amendments tabled and the agreement reached in this paper, it is now the partners and partners of these spaces who decide and regulate the prohibition or not to smoke in them, because we believe that it is a private place and that they and they are concerned with self-regulation. We would like to recall the deletion of Article 33.3 of the original text on the proposal of EH Bildu. We were the only group that amended that article; thanks to the support of the opposition we have achieved our goal. We are referring to the Government's attempt to ban drinking alcohol on the street. If it had not been for our amendment, it would have been impossible from the adoption of this law to drink an alcoholic drink, from any graduation, not even at the door of a hostel, as long as it was not on a terrace or a gazebo. It does not take much effort to imagine the conflict that this article could have entailed. We sincerely believe that the Government intended to end the bottle, but it was about to create a problem where it did not. Therefore, thanks to our amendment, as we say, nothing changes in this matter, and if any mayor considers the bottle to be a problem, he has the capacity and power to regulate it at his own will, by drawing up an ordinance, and in his hands it is to punish anyone who takes an alcoholic drink on the street or even an energy drink or a refreshment, as happened a few days ago in one of our cities. Finally, we want to explain and defend the two intermediate corrections we've reserved for the PSE. The first is the correction of the article, by which the municipal councils are prevented from taking notice of it in the first instance of the law sent by the Government; It's the same nail that's got 100 reconnaissance from the EH Collect. The second is the correction of the new article 93, by which the fines can be substituted for the minors. To this rule, instead of fines, a preparation and programs related to addictions may be made. That's what we agree with PSE, but the rest of the teams are supposed to be in favor of commoning jobs. I mean, instead of education, punish it. Thus the minors will not change their attitudes, they will learn nothing, we will not raise them, but they will stigmatize them. Finally, we want to show that we all have succeeded in improving the law. "EH Collector has concluded with all the legislatures, as we have said at first, that our purpose has always been to make a good law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u21	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, guests to all good days. Let's see, simplifying I've always thought it's a mistake, and I come to say it because today we're not going to approve what I'm hearing that is simply saying "the law of addictions," because someone might think that we're going to pass a law promoting additions, for example. And no, it's exactly the opposite. It's the law of integrated attention on addictions and drug addictions. Mindfulness, which begins from prevention, begins from the attempt of public health. What for? The citizen's freedom to keep him from being distracted. I said it in his freedom. This maxim ought to be taken notice of in regulating any aspect, but still more so when it affects all the citizens in some way or other. The Consumptions which we shall assume are sometimes inexplicable; but they are likewise a part of our life and of our individual freedom, which is not part of a tradition. And I'm not talking about what Sabina sang that "the good thing of the years is that it heals the wounds and the bad thing about kisses is that they create addiction." We're talking, we all know, about other addictions. We all know that we are talking about addictions that nullify individual freedom, create sick people, and generate family and social conflicts that cannot fail to be addressed by the public authorities, which more than ever should be put in the role of preventing and helping to achieve a society that, without losing its freedom, is more balanced. And we are talking about freedom in the sense in which Herbert Spencer, a positivist philosopher, explained that he said: "Everyone is free to do what he wants, provided he does not violate the freedom of anyone else." And passing the law that we are going to pass today means that we have legislated applying that aphorism, and that is one of the reasons why the group that I now represent is comfortable adopting it. On the other hand, and understanding, as Nehru said, that freedom and power entail responsibility, the EAJ-PNV group has worked, together with the Basque Government and the rest of the parliamentary groups, to transfer a text full of responsibility, both of the responsibility to respect the freedom of all and all of us who form Basque society, and of setting ourselves up in a legislative power that transfers to the executive power a responsible rule, which allows to prevent objective risks and that promotes, above all, balanced solutions to the different conflicts that arise before consumptions that can create addictions. All this, moreover, with the pretence that society as a whole accepts it as a norm of coexistence necessary to order the traffic of the freedoms, of each and every one of them, and to work the prevention, the best method to avoid healing, action that in any case will always be there, but that in order to come to it it it is necessary to suffer damage, which is precisely what this law intends to avoid. All this, moreover, we have obtained, by the labor of one another, a vast consent, which is not common to the law. I should mention two reasons. On the one hand, the government sent us a pleasant project, and on the other, that we were all prepared to agree on the subject, instead of following several ways of meeting society. Faced with the problem of the consumption of objectively harmful substances and its possible consequences, despite our differences, we have been able to agree a law. Thus, 36 amendments have been adopted with the Socialist Group, 13 accepted; with Bildu, transactions 27 and accepted 4; with the People's Group, transactions 24 and accepted 15. And finally, with UPyD, transactions 5. I know they're just numbers, but the numbers that express agreement. And what the agreement means is: If we have defended the project sent by the government, the rest of the teams have also done it. It is, indeed, very few that have remained without discussion at this meeting. Although, it is logical that each group maintains the importance of its rights, the preserved corrects do not change the text in a profound manner. In particular, our group, together with the Group of the European People's Party, supports a compromise amendment to resolve the original wording of Article 93, in which, while not breaking it, the spirit of the preliminary draft supports the possibility that the competent authority on sanctions may replace the fine for work for the benefit of the community or, where appropriate, with the inclusion of the offender in preventive programmes of a formative nature. The latter part is also supported by the amendment agreed between the Socialist Group and Bildu. Then, the only discrepancy we could have is to replace the penalty for work in favor of the community. Without affecting the substance of the law, the debate about how to deal with the sentence handed down after an offence is not swayed. If the penalty of activities for the community is socially well accepted as an alternative to the more classic and caspian penalty of the fine, the more must be done in a law that seeks to address a matter from prevention, from co-education and from co-responsibility. Other possibilities must be offered to the convicted persons and to the convicted persons, especially when the law itself leaves freedom to the convicted person to choose. Give it more opportunities, which also activities in favour of everyone are formative of a spirit of solidarity. The other issue that requires a position is that of the transaction presented by the Socialist Group and Bildu to article 68.1.e.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u22	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u23	... in which, after describing the municipal powers within the scope of this Act, it appears in the section on sanctioning and inspection powers, which will apply provided that they have the necessary resources to exercise such powers. In a while, we're going to pass municipal law. Who decides if they have the necessary resources? The City Hall? The government? The congress? And all this, after hearing throughout the debate in the paper and today, that the municipalities are already larger to exercise their powers, especially to regulate the consumption of alcohol on the street. Well, if they're big, they're big for everything. In addition, the text proposed by the Government and accepted by our group, adds that such authority can be exercised individually or jointly. There they have, in addition to others, the possibility of solving a possible point-of-time misadjustment. We do not understand the amendment or share it. The municipalities are responsible for the matter and can not be half-retirement council, whether or not according to what. And the unpleasant also falls within their competence, because the law and its application demand – and I have already said this – responsibility and also legal certainty, not guaranteed by the amendment they have tabled. On both issues, Mr Maneiro announced to us today, he will support our position, which is to be thanked. With regard to alcohol at the doors of the hotels, it was missing, Mrs Blanco, to say one thing: "We are looking for a compromise between the government's proposal and its amendment, which was, in fact, to be able to drink at the doors of the hotels, and you did not accept it. Don't come with one another; there was an intermediate position. It's okay. I cannot fail to quote briefly, and after the harassment suffered this week, our position on the electronic cigarette. In any case, I am also surprised that some parliamentary group that at the time encouraged this debate here is now abstaining, but, well, our position on this issue is simple, without further evaluation, not even that of harassment, which in any case is legitimate but tiring, our position is that of the Department of Health of the Basque Government and that of the World Health Organization, which no one will doubt these bodies, which in this matter are a reference. Nor can I fail to make a reference to the regularization of cannabis clubs, which has been carried out as approved by this same legislature by the corresponding presentation. If throughout my presentation I have spoken of freedom and responsibility, this is your exponent, to accept what exists as the fruit of free will and to regulate it with responsibility and also to appeal to the responsibility that demands their consumption towards each and the rest of society. I will not extend to everything else, but only a generic comment on the maintenance of PPk, which seems a great deal, but is really a parcel of correction, and its object was to lay down the laws of the state. We make the Basque laws in the Basque Act, and we are better created than copying them. Having said that, and in addition to remaining satisfied with the work done and the consensus achieved, I think it should also be stressed that with a law such as the one we are going to adopt today, it represents a further step in the progress towards a society that, without losing an apex of its freedom, is capable of changing some social ways of being and acting, which some call traditions, by achieving a greater balance in the field of public health between all the forces that counterbalance in society. This law is to yield a bit from each of us and us to build a society more aware of its own problems before what could only seem routine consumptions. This law is to give health greater social relevance, and this law is to understand among all that by giving up part of our ways we can move towards a more balanced, healthier, more responsible, more supportive, freer and surely happier society. In short, this law has been built in the game between wisdom and will, because, as Elbert Hubbard said, "Responsibility is the price of freedom." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u24	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. We're gonna go back to the answers, is there a group that wants to participate? Mists, no. Popular groups, no. Sociistic groups, no. EH Collect, yes. It's your word, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u25	Thanks again. I leave only because I have been questioned by Mr Tellería in his speech and, basically, low to answer him. And to Mr Maneiro too, an issue that we have before left to tell you. With regard to the compromise amendment we have to Article 93, Mr Maneiro, it is not that it is more complete than the compromise tabled by the People's Party and the PNV, it is that it is different, and it is true that the substantial difference, also named by Mr Telleria, is precisely the work to the community. Yes, they are given to choose, they are given to choose minors in case they have a sanction, either to be included in training programs, which is what the Socialist Party and EH Bildu proposed, or to do jobs for the community. And that is what we do not share, because, as we said in our first speech, we tend much more and it seems to us more opportune to use in this case pedagogical measures than non-stigmatizing ones, which we consider them to be so. As for drinking or not drinking on the street, it is true, I have to admit it and so it is, in the presentation you tried to reach an agreement with us, with which it shows that you would certainly not agree very much with the original text when you were trying to change the original text. But we also told him on that occasion, that it was tremendously difficult to reach an agreement on that, because the only way to do so was to find exceptions, except, and it was tremendously complicated because the case was so broad and so diverse, that it would have been very difficult in the end to find a text with which we would have agreed, and we have not been the only ones, because they have also tried to reach agreements with living amendments from other groups that had not amended that article. Therefore, the effort I know has been important on your part. And as for the municipalities, whether they are older or not to make ordinances, if they are not so older, according to the Socialist Group and us to be able to sanction, we are talking about two very different things. The law says, according to what is to be approved here today, that it is the municipalities that are responsible for inspecting and punishing. There are municipalities that do not have those resources, but we also believe that the mayors are responsible enough, not to intentionally abandon their duties in this case. That's why we said, as long as they have a choice and have tools to do so, then they do. But if you don't have it, we also have to take it into account. And another very different thing is the ordinances that they can or cannot do with the subject of alcohol. I told him in a paper, I told him in private and I tell him again today: There is a very clear example in this case. The theme of the slices. The lounges used by young people, boys and girls, in our cities and in our municipalities. There are municipalities and there are places, where there are mayors and mayors who consider it a problem. And they are absolutely capable, they have the ability to put in the tools to take the measures they create timely. It can be an ordinance, it can be another type of measure, it can be a good practice manual, it can be an intermediation with a mediation office. I mean, there's a lot of ways to do it. With this, the difference between one thing and another, is substantial. We are simply going to support, of course, the two amendments that we have negotiated with the Socialist Group, even though we believe that Mr Maneiro's support will not be voted for in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Tellegioía, the Eurcan patriots, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u27	Thank you very much. Very fast. I could talk from the seat, but that's where I feel more uncomfortable. I'd rather look. First of all, the penalty of work in favour of society will never be stigmatizing when the law provides for the prisoner to accept that penalty. Then, if you do not accept it, because you believe it stigmatizes you, it will not apply to you. In other words, the law favors this possibility of work in favor of the community and at the same time tells the sentenced person "hey, you choose if you want this, the fine or a formative course". Man, the more possibilities we give, the better we're working on collaborating, on solving this. I insist again, I have spoken of freedom and responsibility. And so, I think it has to be what the whole text of this law had. With regard to alcohol on the street, I am not going to get involved, but it does not stop at the complexity of management. Don't stop. The text was given to him. It seemed more opportune, and it seems to me good, I do not want to break the good roll that we have had all these months; it seemed better to tell the public that you defended the tradition of potion. Okay, great, he stays with her, but we haven't broken the tradition of potion, which, by the way, in my town of course the potion has all life been from bar to bar inside, and if we only had a bar, from one side of the bar to the other side of the bar. But in any case, we offered to look for a pact, which does not mean that we do not like the text of the Government, which we may not like, but in everything we have negotiated, what has it been, that we did not like the text of the Government or that we have sought a pact? Looking for a pact isn't that I don't like the government text, okay? And with regard to the municipalities, I speak again about freedom and responsibility. We are not questioning the freedom and responsibility of the municipalities. We are questioning your amendment, which leaves in a, I do not know, in a legal purgatory the possibility that they can do so or not. If you can do it, then do it. And if they can't do it, let them join together, that the law itself favors them. In other words, we do not question the capacity of the good will of the municipalities. And without further ado, believing that with this we continue to keep in good shape and consensus, as I hope that we will pass the law in the next five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u28	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to start the vote. First, we'll vote for the corrections made by the Misto-UPyD team. We'll vote here in the block, but if anyone wants to get something out, let him say it now. Bale. Carmelo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u29	Yeah. Madam President, 117, 120, 123 and 124, and the rest...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u30	Itxoin, itxoin, itxoin. 117 or 117? 117?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u31	No, no. No, no, 117, 120, 123 and 124. And the rest on the other side.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u32	Okay. Okay. White, zuk?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u33	We'll take 117 and then all the others.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u34	The rest. Okay. What's the Social Party trying to get out? 117, okay. Then we vote 117. Correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 28; white, 0; abstain, 35.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u35	So 117, the amendment has not been approved. After that, we'll vote for 120, 123, and 1224 addons. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The opposites, 63; white, 0; abstain, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u36	So they didn't accept it. And next time, we vote for all the others. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 1; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstain, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u37	So they didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the corrections made by the Basque Popular Group. The ones you're trying to get out of here, too? Yes, Eva?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u38	186, and then the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u39	The rest. Okay. Sociistic parties? Same, yes, but (... ) interval. What about the Mists? Wait. (Response) Okay. We'll vote first, 139, 150, 151, 152, 187 and 196. We vote in one group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u40	Therefore, those who have been reserved have not been admitted. Then we'll make another group: 153, 156, 1558, 171, 174, 176, 191, and 233. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The opposites, 63; white, 0; abstain, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u41	So they didn't accept it. Next, another group: 180 to 1885. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 27; white, 0; abstain, 36.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u42	So they didn't accept it. After that, we'll vote for the amendment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The contrary, 28; white, 0; abstain, 35.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u43	So he didn't accept it. And next time, the rest. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; counters, 63; whites, 0; Abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u44	So they didn't accept it. The Euskal Socialists vote the reserved corrections of the teams. Yeah? Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u45	Twenty-eight apart, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u46	28, aside. Well, we'll make different teams here, too. We vote on one side, eight to 60. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 15; counters, 38; white, 0; Abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u47	So they didn't accept it. Next, we vote 28 corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 16; contraries, 48; white, 0; Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u48	So he didn't accept it. And 31 to finish. We'll vote for the amendment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 16; contraries, 37; white, 0; Abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u49	So he didn't accept it. Next up, we vote for the EH Collect Group 100. Correct, article 94. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; Abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u50	So he didn't accept it. After this, the particular suffrage of the euscripts of the eulogy is put into votes. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 38; the opposites, 36; white, 0; abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u51	So it's accepted. Next, we'll vote on the 68th article of the criterion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u52	So it's accepted. Next, the Eucobertians and the midway correction of the Basque Populous Groups is directed to a new article 93. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 38; the opposites, 36; white, 0; abstentions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u53	So it's accepted. Next, they go to vote together with those parts which were designed by the reserved corrections. We have different votes here. First, you've been in teams, so we'll vote first with two and 27 articles. Yeah? Yeah? Okay, so two first. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the east, 57; contrary to 0; white; 1; Abstations, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u54	So it's accepted. Next, we vote the 27th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the country, 48; opposites 15. Whites, 0; Abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u55	So it's accepted. Next, we vote the 28th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the country, 48; the contrary, 1. White, 0; Abstations, 25.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u56	So it's accepted. Next, we vote from 42 to 47. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contrarys 10; white, 0; Abstations, 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u57	So they're accepted. Next, we vote for 74. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 58; the contrary, 1; the whites, 0; Abstations, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u58	So it's accepted. Next, we vote 83. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 64; the opponents 10; the white ones are 0,0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u59	So it's accepted. After that, we'll vote for the 94th. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 52; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u60	So it's accepted. Next, we vote 25, 30, 39, 70, 73, 85, 88, 90, 91, the first extra regulations, the unimproved and the last regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u61	So they're accepted. And next time, we vote for the rest. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u62	So they're accepted. After this, these articles of judgment, which have no correction, are made to vote; 1,3 to 5, 9 to 24, 26, 32, 33, 36, 37, 41, 48 to 58, 60 and 61 to 67, 69, 71, 72, 75 to 82, 84, 84, 87, 89, 93, 99, and 96. Second and third of the last regulations and regulations. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u63	So they're accepted. And finally, the explanation and the name of the law are addressed to the vote. Yeah? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u64	We'll vote first for the explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u65	So it's accepted. And in conclusion, we vote for the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u66	So it's accepted. And with these results the Law of Integrations and Drug Integrations has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The dispensation of the Institution, Security, and Justice Committee, made upon the bill of law upon the Institutions of the Basque Office. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board are allowed to participate? No. Miss, let's start with you. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u67	Thank you very much, President. In July last year, when I defended our amendment of the whole of the municipal bill submitted by the Basque Government, the only amendment of the whole that was tabled, I expressed, in the first sentence of my speech, the fundamental reason why we tabled that amendment: because this law does not bring anything relevant. And laws must be and serve to transform reality and improve people's lives, not to leave everything basically as it is. And this law, in particular, does not bring anything relevant – he said – and it also strengthens the Basque institutional framework that we want to change. So this project does not contribute, it does nothing, it does not change reality, it does not improve people's lives and maintains the institutional field of the Basques which we want to change. That's why we're all right. Not to disturb them, but to have a better law, was said at that moment. And he added that we tabled the amendment in its entirety because the Basque Government intends with this bill, as it was expressly said, to complete the process of articulation between the three institutional levels of Euskadi, and to complete the Basque institutional building, rather than reform it deeply. What we were defending, we are defending and we will continue to defend. Because the Basque Government stresses that the draft law scrupulously respects the unique position assumed by the historical territories in the institutional framework, rather than stressing the need to move forward in its modernization, simplification and reform, as a way for the Basques to have an institutional architecture that suits our needs sooner rather than later. And because this bill, said, in short, aims to consolidate the nonsense, inefficient, inefficient and absurd institutional framework, while UPyD considers that its reform and modernization is urgent and indispensable. And he added that introducing a complete amendment to a bill that does not change or improve anything, or that stays far from what should, as it will finally happen, not be boycotting or hindering anything, it is simply fighting and defending our ideas also in Parliament. The real boycotters, he said on that occasion, were those who had been unable to bring a decent municipal law to the Basque Parliament in 35 years or those who simply understood politics as maintaining the old structures and distributing posts, rather than understanding it as what it really should be: transformation, change and renewal. In July we told the Basque Government that this is not the law that Basque society needs. Euskadi needs a clear jurisdictional distribution between the various existing institutions and this municipal law does not comply with the expected work. Finally, it remains very short and is, in that sense, a missed opportunity. We've often said he needs a municipal law from Euskaca, but this is not the law he needs from Euskka. If it needed, and needed, a municipal law that clearly and definitively set out the competencies to be assumed by local corporations; a municipal law that effectively guaranteed the financial self-sufficiency of local entities; a municipal law to reform and modernize the structure of our local administration; a municipal law to place municipalities in their rightful place, as the closest institution to citizens, which could play an essential role in meeting their most peremptory needs; a municipal law that also promoted the merger of smaller municipalities; and a municipal law that guaranteed citizen participation and maximum transparency. However, neither that draft nor the opinion before us today represent any significant progress or change anything substantial, and above all consolidates the absurd Basque institutional framework. It is, as I say, a missed opportunity, and this is the essential reason for our vote against this opinion and against this law. I admit, I recognize that it is difficult enough for a municipal law to solve Euskadi's problem of entanglement. The measures to be taken should be comprehensive, another type of legal reform should be promoted first. And I also recognize that through partial amendments it is impossible to modify the substance of this law and thereby promote the reform of the Basque institutional framework. I admit, that's what we have today. But we, with that political position of presenting that amendment in its entirety, of also presenting the partial amendments that we have considered, and our position of finally voting against this law today, what we want to say is that we do not agree with this framework, and that, therefore, we should first push for other, deeper, more radical reforms, in the good sense of the term, and more modern ones, which could, as I say, make us have another institutional architecture as soon as possible. It is absurd in our view, as I have said in this Parliament, that an autonomous community such as Euskadi, with only two million inhabitants, has four parliaments, four governments, three estates, three fiscal policies or 251 municipalities. How many times have I said it and how many times will I keep saying it! I recognise that this is a minority position in this Parliament, but you too must recognise that this speech on these issues is a historic speech, which has never been made before, and that, in any case, we hope it can at least serve to raise ideas which we consider essential and which no other political party proposes. Indeed, he said, an autonomous community with four parliaments, four governments, three estates, three fiscal policies or 251 municipalities, an autonomous community of just two million inhabitants... This doesn't make any sense. And he said that it has 251 municipalities, and by the way, 251 municipalities of which almost three quarters have less than 5,000 inhabitants. 94% of the Alavese municipalities and two thirds of the Vizcay and Gipuzcoans do not reach the 5,000 inhabitants. Two Basque municipalities have less than 100 inhabitants; 21 are between 101 and 250 residents; 78, between 251 and 1,000 inhabitants; 47 do not reach 2,000 and 36 more are between 2,001 and 5,000 inhabitants. Only 67 Basque municipalities, of the 251 that exist, exceed 5,000 inhabitants. There's more. Only 43 have more than 10,000 inhabitants, the minimum number that the Council of Europe considers necessary to provide adequate services. And only 21 have more than 20,000 inhabitants, the magnitude that various studies establish as a threshold of effectiveness for the provision of adequate services to society. The size and population of the municipalities has been shown to be a further source of inequality for citizens, who, depending on where they live, have and enjoy greater and better public services. This is a perfectly proven fact. Therefore, this serious review of the Basque municipal map should also be carried out, along the lines of what has been done in many European countries. This has been done in recent years in Germany, Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, Greece or Sweden, or in many others. There has recently been a merger of certain institutions to provide better public services, which, after all, is the objective of any political party and any institution. But the municipal bill submitted by the Government ruled out the merger of municipalities and missed a historic opportunity to initiate that process. And the opinion that is presented to us is on the same conservative line. In addition, the historical singularities, old relics of the past that we are lashed with, are not updated, while local letter is granted to joint ventures or any other entity that groups several entities. That is, far from ordering the institutional framework, its excessive atomization is patched up and ratified. The bill pointed out certain objectives that we could share, but the truth is that it does not end up fulfilling at all. And the truth is, he points out those goals, but he doesn't finish achieving them. The almighty outlaws are consolidated, there is not sufficient clarification of municipal competences, full municipal autonomy is not guaranteed and the equality of Basque citizens is not guaranteed regardless of the municipality where they reside. It is therefore a deeply conservative text that we cannot support with our vote. I insist, I understand that the political position of UPyD is radical in the sense that it goes to the root of the problems. I understand that all this that we are proposing cannot be resolved with the adoption of a municipal law, but it must be put on the table. And we again call for a profound reform of the institutional framework in order to have a framework that is more useful and at the service of the Basque citizens. These are the reasons why we maintain our amendments and will vote against the law. Gure zuzenketak keepzen ditugu eta legaren kontra bozkatuko dugu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u68	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. And to all the members who came from Eudel. Good morning, as I said, all of you. We are discussing this legal project at the full meeting today. It seems that this will be tested by an agreement between the Jestric Party and the Collectors. We may say that the municipal law is not a law and a law necessary in order to form the institutional structure of the Basques. This bill of law, we must say, has been delayed. From this ring, we insist that this project has been delayed. The Popptic Party continued to have a constructive attitude, and at its very moment we introduced a commission from the Arbataba Fordin, and then, when the tramitation began in the parliament, the popular party did not present any general correction to the bill. But we thought, too, that the bill of law was weak and that we were to correct these weaknesses, and that we had the opportunity of improving the text, and for this reason we introduced 182 partial corrections, although we did not present any general correction. Tramation began at the parliament, late, and then when the power began its course, more or less in January, the agreement between the Jestric Party EH Collector and EH, was completed in the last two months. We may say that the treaty signed has been concluded by the serious circumstances of both parties, and we may at last say that the law which is to be tried today will be late and ill. Today we set again the position of the People's Group on the municipal bill, which, by the way, has also been changed its name, is going to be the law of local institutions. We have to say that it is not any law, it is an essential law for vertebration, or to culminate, rather, the institutional and competitive vertebration of Euskadi. In this sense, we can say that it closes the institutional framework in the VAC. It is the great subject pending in 30 years of development of our autonomy and self-government and, as I have just pointed out, it is a law that comes late. The bill, better said, came late with respect to the forecasts of the legislative calendar itself: the legislative calendar itself indicated that it was coming in the first half of 2014, and arrived on November 12, 2014. Our position, the position of the People's Party as a party, has been absolutely constructive. At the time, when we were ruling in the Foral Chamber of Álava, we made allegations to the text at that time. Some were admitted; others were not. When, as I say, the bill arrived late in the Basque Parliament, the People's Parliamentary Group did not table an amendment in its entirety (although it is true that we are discussing an amendment to the whole of UPyD, which was also rejected in this House), but that did not stop this group from introducing 182 partial amendments on the understanding that the law was grieving or had issues that needed to be corrected and corrected and others that needed to be improved. I will refer briefly to the pact between EH Bildu and PNV, PNV-EH Bildu, Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalea eta EH Bilduren artean sinautako akordioa, because this law will be the result of the agreement between two parties. It has been a shock that consensus has not been sought with other parties, it has been a shock that the Socialist Party has been left out, it has been a striking issue, which we have also highlighted in numerous appearances on this issue, being the preferred partner and being the law, according to the Government, one of the most important laws of this legislature. This agreement has been woven, it was rather woven in January. It should be remembered that we also qualified January as the competent month to gather the paper and did not meet until the end of that month, when already the agreement, the change of chromosomes better said, between the Nationalist Party and EH Bildu, EH Bildu and the Nationalist Party, was made, and that change of chromosomes involved or entailed, better said, the entry also of EH Bildu to Eudel. They ran into hunger with the desire to eat, because the Nationalist Party obviously had an urgent need to take out one of the laws they have described as the most important. By the way, a law that has been pending for more than 30 years, and it must also be said that there will be a responsibility for those parties that have ruled, and especially the Basque Nationalist Party, which has been continuously in the Basque Government, except for the last four years of the legislature. As I say, this pact is conditioned by the urgency of both parties, and the result of that agreement is going to come out today the municipal law that, by the way, as it said, has changed its name. We do want to highlight some issues in relation to the processing and, in the end, the law that will be adopted today by these two parties. We believe that the uniqueness of our institutions has not been properly used to strengthen municipalities and local authorities themselves in relation to some specific issues, such as councils and gangs. This peculiarity has not been duly taken into account. It has also shocked us that some parties that constantly claim that, precisely, it is in addition to the two that have agreed this law, have finally made a kind of shallow table and have not taken into account the peculiarity of our institutional framework for, precisely, and seeing that we are late, to have taken advantage of that circumstance for having made one of the most ambitious and novel laws and, of course, to the height of the circumstances. That is why we say that this Government has had a rather important ambition in this area. We believe that an opportunity has been missed in the clarification of competition, that the powers and funding of the various institutions have not been properly clarified and that this issue has been dealt with specifically in this Parliament with a specific presentation, on the subject of duplication... We believe that there should have been an impact on the elimination of duplication between the various institutions. And finally, in the area of transparency, and seeing that we do not yet have a law of transparency in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, we believe that we could have gone a long way and placed ourselves at the forefront of some of these issues as well. The People's Party, in that sense, has maintained many amendments which have to do with transparency, because we believe that this law will be absolutely short. It has been given a varnish of transparency, to appear that we were doing something, but at the time of truth we believe that we could have gone much further on this issue. We were proposing and maintaining the amendments that have to do with the local government committee. I take this opportunity to say that we have maintained all those amendments that have not been accepted during the course of the debate in the paper. Another issue that seems to us to be crucial, in relation to the Basque Public Finance Council, which also has to do with transparency, is that the members should be appointed by the general boards of the historic territories and not by the lehendakari on Eudel's proposal. We believe that by adopting this formula there is a democratic reduction in the representativeness of citizens in political decisions. In short, we have missed an opportunity to make a law commensurate with the circumstances, as I said, with our specificities and which responds in a real way to the current needs. As far as transparency is concerned, as I say, we could have gone much further, we could have been more ambitious in all the detailed information that has to do with the autonomous bodies, with the linked or dependent public bodies, public foundations, consortia, commercial companies; more also with regard to the minimum transparency obligations in government members, senior officials, information on institutional advertising campaigns, the composition of the recruitment boards, the budgeted volume data on the contracts awarded, on the members of the trade union representative bodies, on the subject of subsidies, on the subject of aid. Therefore, in the area of transparency, we can clearly say that the agreement between Bildu and the PNV is rather an aesthetic agreement, and not an agreement of depth and depth on transparency, which, as I say, we had an opportunity to have reached there. And I'm finishing up, Madam President. On the subject of Basque, we are concerned that there is a manipulation of what may be the existing legislation and that there is much confusion in the text as to whether Basque and Spanish are the two official languages and to ensure the effective exercise of citizens to choose the official language they wish. It is no wonder that in the end the agreement was between two nationalist forces and, therefore, this matter has been shunned to the positions which these parties maintain in linguistic matters. We are concerned about a specific issue: to guarantee language rights in the provision of services indirectly, the possibility is introduced of introducing clauses to ensure that in the public services provided by third parties citizens are served in the official language they choose and the service is provided in language conditions equivalent to those which are payable to the administration in charge of the service. And I am finishing, Madam President, but I am going to stop at an issue that I believe is also a real trap for the municipalities, which is the issue of social emergency aid. Payment obligations are laid down for municipalities in a certain percentage, which is also differentiated in relation to the size of the municipalities, but an obligation is laid down for them to pay for social emergency aid which they do not have so far. Another thing is that the municipalities at the moment – some – and because the needs are not covered by the allocation of social emergency aid which the Basque Government has systematically provided for in its budgets, and which do not arrive, decide to supplement these social emergency aid. But with the regulation to be adopted today, there is an additional obligation to pay to municipalities that do not now have, which is quite worrying. And I'm done, Madam President. Missed opportunity to respond to existing needs; lack of ambition, has clearly gone to cover the file and there have been found two parties that had very clear needs of a party type, and, of course, the People's Group, after 30 years, ladies and gentlemen, expected something more, especially considering that municipal law was not just any law. In that regard, we maintain our amendments, as I have pointed out, and also, as we believe that the agreed text or agreement between the PNV and EH Bildu ultimately worsens the original text on some issues, we have tabled a significant number of particular votes to maintain the original text of the bill, obviously on those issues that we initially agreed. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u70	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u71	Good morning, President. First a greeting to the mayors, local public officials, who are accompanying us today; to Senator Bildarratz. Today is a day that should be highlighted in the political history of Euskadi, because at last, even if it is with a delay of 33 years, Euskadi will cease to be the only autonomous community that lacks its own municipal law, because at last we will complete the legal basis of the institutions that will spill over our country defining the framework of action of the municipalities as we have already done decades ago with the Basque Government and the outlaws. We will finally have – it is true – a municipal law. But I'm sorry to say, believe me that the socialists regret it, it's going to be a bad municipal law, a law that doesn't respect the local level, a law that we think is more outlawist than municipalist. It is quite a symptom that the text has lost its original name in the final section, becoming the law of local institutions of Euskadi, rather than the municipal law. Perhaps the new name is more precise, but the disappearance of the municipal adjective is not precisely free of charge in this case. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about adjectives, but about content. That is why my group, which has undoubtedly fought the most in this country for decades for the Euskadi municipalities to have their law, is not going to support this law with its vote, for it is insufficient, because it puts more emphasis on safeguarding the competences of the historical territories than on defining those of the municipalities. You read the text and talk more about the outside than about the municipal on many occasions. Because as much as it is said, gentlemen of the PNV and gentlemen of Bildu, it continues to keep the municipalities as poor relatives of the Basque institutional concert. The project was already deficient in origin, but we trusted that we could improve it among all in its parliamentary process. That is why the Socialist Group has not tabled a complete amendment, but a series of partial amendments. However, more than 16 months later, the project is true that it has had some partial improvement, but it has also suffered worsening in some way, and above all it maintains its outlawist bias and in the background, let us not be fooled, anti-municipal. Something that I am not surprised at in the PNV because this is precisely the cause that we have taken so long to pass this law, but which draws attention to in a formation like Bildu, which has swallowed with this approach of the law in exchange for certainly no substantial concessions, except the entry, certainly with much delay, in the governing bodies of Eudel. The socialists have always argued that municipal autonomy – because that is what this law is about, or should be about – is guaranteed by clearly defining the framework of action that corresponds to this institutional level and by providing the municipalities with adequate and sufficient resources to develop these powers, but not by delegation or grace of other administrations, but by dialogue of equal value. That should be the trunk object of this law. These are the principles that should regulate a municipal bill in Euskadi. But it wasn't like that. After filling their mouths with the right to decide, the nationalist parties will leave the Basque municipalities unable to decide on almost anything, with autonomy cut short and controlled as hitherto by the outlaws. And I will briefly reiterate the reasons behind the Socialist Group's position. As far as the competition framework is concerned, we believe that the text is clearly insufficient. It should be made more clear that the competences of their own, assessed in the law, imply the ownership of the functions and powers that accompany them, as we advocate in our amendments, and that the allocation of new powers to the municipalities must always be made by law of Parliament, foral rule, with their prior acceptance and accompanied by the necessary economic resources. Regarding the treatment of Basque, we consider that both this and the Spanish are official languages, so they have to be languages of use, of work and of relationship with citizenship. And that should have been reflected in a clear wording, not in tangled and also intentional writings. We argue that any citizen can relate to the Administration, also to its council, in the official language he chooses, as well as the law, this is not guaranteed and leaves to the arbitration of the municipalities that they have or do not have care services in Basque and Castilian. We disagree that the Basque Council for Local Public Policy, which brings together all the institutional levels to coordinate local policies, should be robbed of the possibility of participating and intervening in initiatives of the historical territories that may affect municipal competences, something truly surprising. Because curiously, the council can act in the face of the exercise of competences of the common institutions that interfere in the proper sphere of the municipalities, but it is not known why the mysteries are being shaken by the possibility of doing so in the face of initiatives of the historical territories that may also violate the rights of the municipalities. It must be the foral pass applied within the Basque Autonomous Community. The same applies to the Basque Local Government Commission, which acts as an early warning body to initiatives by the Basque Government or Parliament that could undermine municipal competences; however, initiatives by the deputies and the general councils, as if they were above good and evil, are also left out of its scope. But the point of greatest disagreement is that of municipal funding. In the project, the participation of the municipalities in the agreed taxes is not recognized equally with the other institutions, and according to objective and common criteria for the three historical territories, at all. As much as Bildu wants to sell as a great advance what was already in the original text, the presence of the municipalities with voice and vote in the council in order to distribute the resources that correspond to the local entities. The problem is that they do have a voice and vote, but they have no decision-making capacity. They are not at all on an equal footing, no matter how much they are said. And the wording of draft article 118 makes that very clear. He did not say that those resources would be distributed according to what the representatives of the three institutional levels agreed sovereignly on the Finance Council. No, that's not what the bill says. What he says is that the determination of the resources of the municipalities of each historical territory is the responsibility of their outside bodies, which will exercise it freely in accordance with their rules. And only after this extemporary manifestation of praise to the outside in a municipal law, is the concession made that, if necessary, the distribution can be adjusted to the criteria agreed by the Basque Finance Council, or not, without the vote of autonomous representation, by the way, except in the case of a tie. However, it should be pointed out once again that these criteria for the distribution of economic resources to municipalities do not have binding force, since they are only a recommendation for fiscal policy. Where, therefore, is the decision-making capacity of the municipalities in the distribution of taxes if what they agree has no binding force, only the nature of recommendation? And for dessert, the rematch that proclaims that the historical territories can depart from these criteria if the deputy head considers it appropriate. How can one maintain with a certain solvency that this regulation respects the autonomy of the municipalities and their dialogue on an equal footing with the other two Basque administrations? It doesn't exist, it's camouflaged, but it doesn't exist. We are as we were, yes, with more paraphernalia. The Statute, it is true, confers on the historical territories the power to regulate and collect agreed taxes. It's true. But it does not at any time grant them ownership of their resources or the power to distribute them to the municipalities at their will. That is a sui generis interpretation of the Basque Nationalist Party, not something that is contained in any legal provision. Would we have accepted, for example, that the Law on Economic Concert should say something similar with regard to State administration, which could deviate from the criteria if they considered it appropriate? Isn't that right? Wouldn't it have been a major political scandal? Well, that's what you just did with the Basque municipalities. And for all this, out of municipalist coherence, the socialists are not going to give our positive vote to a bill that takes so little account of the autonomy and role of the Euskadi municipalities. We will therefore vote in favour of the amendments tabled and maintained by the Socialist Party and we will oppose those of the other groups and the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u72	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Mazzu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning to all the municipal delegates and especially to the members of the City Hall. Well, in the 10 minutes that I have to make a speech, I'll try to explain how we've managed to make a good law that was necessary to us. Because it was necessary that a law which regulates the scope of local jurisdictions should be determined, because it is necessary to determine what municipal jurisdictions are after 36 years' time. But it was essential for us to guarantee that we could develop these financial powers. In other words, the townships became a first-class institution, in a state of equality with General Administration and Forals, in order to restore to the people worthy public services. That was our last aim. If we gave us a good instrument, we'd end up supporting local institutions, worthy and better public services. We have, of course, used discussion and negotiation to restore the business of the townships, even in part, transparency, and equality, and in respect of the jurisdiction of the organizations of the local institutions, in order to establish some of the least necessary matters. But let's go to a part that's essential to us. And there's a municipal jurisdiction section. 17. For the fact that in the article 37 precise districts the townships are allowed to develop their own rights. I'll try to explain the importance of this article by some particular examples. Because no one doubts, for instance, that the jurisdictions which have hitherto been developed by the council were their own: and in the streets, or in the lights, or in the building, or in the building of the town, or in the country of the police. But there are other jurisdictions, which have been doubted, and have been especially doubted, by the law of rationalization received by the State. For instance, in the field of social service. The Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration, a law made by the party that most corruption cases have throughout Europe supposedly to avoid municipal corruption – thought the thief that all were of his condition – this law aims to cut down on municipal competence in social services simply to the mere assessment and information of situations of need. Not only did it cut back on this, but it also sought to privatize public services. Intervention by the municipalities is a frontal attack on local autonomy. But in the field of social services it was very characteristic, the mere assessment and information of situations of need. Well, the law that we are going to pass today specifically establishes municipal competence to order, plan and manage social services, that is, a containment dam against the cuts that come from Madrid. That is, to value and support the work that basic social services have been doing as a spearhead to alleviate the serious situation that many people in our country are experiencing. Nothing better than an example to see what this law is for, to support the social services that are currently being provided from local entities. Another example. Another of the material areas with the possibility of developing exclusive competences by the municipalities, important in any socio-economic situation, but more in the current one, this law also includes in article 17 the competence of the municipalities in the field of local, economic and social development, and local employment plans. Why do I say it's important? For to avoid news like this, news was given two weeks ago: "They accuse the Chamber of offering a self-employment program that is already being lent. Mayors and Councillors of Durangaldea have denounced the interference represented by the district reactivation program that the Parliament is going to launch in Durangaldea to boost 75 self-employment projects." This is an example we want to avoid. This is a misunderstanding, Mr Pastor; rather, a very misunderstanding of provincialism. The lord of the province comes and imposes on the municipalities and the commons what employment plans we have to carry out, when it is the municipalities and the commons that know best what the social reality of that place is. Well, do you know who holds the portfolio or, in this case, the employment area in the Bizkaia Parliament? The Socialist Party of Euskadi, that party that has just told us here little less that we are bowing to an outlawist vision of the country that has the Basque Nationalist Party. Well, Mr Pastor, and Mrs Mendia, you can tell Mrs Laspada, who is the Member of the Employment Committee, and Mr García, the Director of Employment, former Mayor of Barakaldo, because it seems that you do not like the deputies, unless it is to occupy a seat there, you can tell them that the new law of local entities reflects that local employment plans are a competence of the municipalities, you can tell them to take the picture elsewhere. So this law is very important to us, in order to protect the local jurisdictions of the townships. Of course they are. 17. In this article all hands are given. But this law would remain lame, if it had no other side, and it is to guarantee the financial will to develop them. And that's exactly what EH Collect has got in this law, where economic resources are divided together with the New York Citys, the New York Citys, and in a state of equality, they'll have a word and a faculty of decision. Yes, it was from the beginning that they would have a word and a vote at the Basque Council, which was received from the beginning, that is not our contribution. What was our contribution? I'll explain now. I'll explain it to you right now. In order to determine the doctrine of the Law of Confederation, they will have a faculty of resolution. That's what's recorded in article 117.5, and please read it. We didn't act small. We didn't leave when we split up in the country. No. We went to the general box when the general distribution is made. And when it is decided how much it belongs to each country, the councils will have a word and a decision, by means of the representatives of the Basque Council. Article 117.5, which is what we have accomplished. We didn't play the little one. We didn't go to the country. We played the big game, and we won. And that's what you can't accept. But besides that, you're lying because in article 118.5, it's been recorded in the country that the minimum has been established by the Basque Council of Finna, and that the councils will be there. The minimum. And that's where you can't get it out of there. And that is also recorded in the law. So in the general box, the councils decide, and decide the least in the country. That's what's been accomplished in this law. And in conclusion, because it has been a very important section for us, we could not allow this discussion to pass without facing a very serious problem which the municipal councils have at this moment, and it is the question given in social distresses. 'Cause the money that you put on from the start is pretty fast, 'cause it's half a year finished. But the demands don't end. Orders continue. And what the councils have to do nowadays is face this situation with their own resources. Well, the Basque Country has also been produced by the initiative of the Collector, while the regulator of frames for social distress changes, by establishing a transitory regulation. At the present day, the councils must pay a hundred per cent all the money they have to pay from their original amount. Well, we've received a temporary regulation, and what do we say about it? Well, there's a third of the townhouses below 20,000 people, two-thirds of the eucalyptus. I repeat, that at the present day, at a hundred per cent, the councils must perform, and half and half of 20,000 populations, what the councils have to do at the present day at a hundred per cent. So we've guaranteed the town councils to know what money they're going to put from the beginning, and even if you know what's going to happen to the Basque MUDM, that's what we've got in this negotiation. Eta bukatzeko. In short, for Euskal Herria Bildu we have moved from a bill that was necessary, to a good law for local entities, a law that will count on the support of the formations that hold 80% of the mayors. It is a pity that the People's Party and its three mayors and the Socialist Party and its nine mayors did not want to join this agreement to give it greater plurality. We can understand, in the case of the People's Party, since its mode of country and that of Euskal Herria Bildu are totally antagonistic; what we have not understood at any time is that from the moment they saw that Euskal Herria Bildu entered into the negotiation, they departed in the sectarian way that they have been doing so throughout this legislature. There's a song from a band, Peiremans, that says, "Egunen batan, ateri denean, euritaz ariko gara." There you are, soaked up in old rains. Encouraged by the work you have ahead of you. What has been much more difficult for us to understand is the attitude of the Socialist Party, which, from the moment it saw that Euskal Herria Bildu entered the debate, has withdrawn. They wanted to sell the municipal law, they wanted to appropriate the medal of the municipal law exclusively, and they didn't want to share it with anyone else. They want to sell us and they sell us that you are the greatest valiant of municipalism in the Basque Country. They were not able in the previous legislature, when they ruled, to convince their governing partner to pass a municipal law, it seems that they did not share your municipal project, and now they are not able to reach an agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu, nor with the Basque Nationalist Party, for a law of local entities. You on this subject are like the one who goes down the highway in the opposite direction and thinks the rest is the one who is wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u74	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u75	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, all good days. First of all, welcome to Mr. President Eudel and the other lords and ladies who came with him. This is the Chamber today, we will accept the law of Eucharistic local institutions, without any medals for anyone. We all came here last night that this law is necessary. Besides, we believe that it is necessary and irresistible, even if we approve of the law that the local Administration should be a nationalistized and bearable. The Basque Nationalist Party during the processing of the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration in the General Courts, defended and asserted our historical rights and our extraneous singularity to exempt the application of that law in Euskadi, extraneous singularity that some want to eliminate and others seem to question. And precisely because of this, today we can pass this law that completes the Basque institutional architecture and constitutes, together with the Statute and the so-called LTH, the norm of closing the Basque institutional model, configuring a model of local regime that has nothing to do with that of the municipalities of the common system and that will give them stability and legal certainty. Three have been the basic parameters for their elaboration and processing. Firstly, something that might seem obvious, which is respect for the existing institutional legal framework. Secondly, to seek the difficult balance between the three levels of the Basque institutional system, which, unlike previous projects, has been achieved an important consensus also between the various institutions, the different political sensibilities, Government, deputies – at the origin governed by the PNV, Bizkaia; Bildu, Gipuzkoa, and PP, Araba – and the Association of Basque Municipalities, Eudel. And thirdly, to have as much support as possible. Although amendments have been incorporated into the draft by all parliamentary groups, "only" in quotes, it will have the support of the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu. Some seem to be trying to undermine the legitimacy of this agreement, which is unfair and does not correspond to reality, since it is an agreement of great political legitimacy, since it represents, as has been said here, almost two thirds of this House, 48 of 75 parliamentarians, and the parties that govern in 197 of the 251 municipalities of this Autonomous Community. The law we adopt today is an integral law, because it regulates two basic aspects of local autonomy: competences and their financing, something new at the state level. As a result of this law, we can say that our municipalities are going to be real local authorities and not mere service providers. They will also be given institutional visibility in the system of Basque public authorities, and to this end there will be important inter-institutional cooperation mechanisms: the Council for Local Public Policies, a body for pooling between the administrations of the three levels of the Autonomous Community, which can function as a platform for institutional integration, and the Commission of Local Governments, a pioneering early warning body in defence of municipal autonomy. In the area of competition, in the face of a competitive system limiting the basic legislation, this law will allow the Basque municipality a wide margin of action, at least the one that has been developed until the adoption of the Rationalization Act. We tend to have greater competition, greater autonomy. Article 17 provides for up to 37 subjects, compared to 15 in the basic legislation, on which sectoral legislation will have to determine the specific powers and powers of municipalities, and not only of enforcement. And besides, these have no closed character. Important, important, Mr. Pastor, this competition system that is reflected in the law was thoroughly analyzed by Eudel and agreed with them, with the Association of Basque Municipalities. With regard to financing, of course, without sufficient and adequate funding for the competences assigned, it is not possible to speak of local autonomy itself. The starting point is clear, Euskadi's municipal funding doubles that of the rest of the state. With regard to the participation of municipalities in the Basque Council of Public Finances, the law represents an enormously significant advance in the current situation, from being mere listeners to being full members in matters affecting them. It is also important and novel that this participation is accepted by all the institutions that have participated in the process of drawing up the project, including Eudel. That is why it was not appealed to the Board of Referees as was the case with the last two drafts of the municipal law, and I believe that this agreement reached outside the legitimate maximalist aspirations of each institutional level needs to be valued. It was also agreed with Eudel that everything that is being done until the adoption of this law is considered funded, although the first transitional provision provides for a general analysis within one year to see its adequacy. On the other hand, the new powers conferred by sectoral legislation will have their corresponding funding. And finally, in this matter, historical claims of the municipalities, such as the portfolio of services, municipal music schools, municipal euskaltegis and social emergency aid, are also addressed in this law. On the other hand, as far as the eucaia is concerned, this law gives a great importance to our own language. For this reason it is principally regulated by the first title, in the place of the primary law. It's a bet that the City Administration officials can do it by degrees. To this may be the language of the organization, when it is always determined by the municipal institutions. And of course, all this being considered as the right of the language of the people. In terms of transparency and participation, the issues that have been covered by the law were also agreed and agreed with Eudel, and the criterion has been not to establish more obligations in this area, you are going to be fulfilled by the municipalities. We are faced with 251 different realities, and it is preferable to reach agreements that can be met by those who are obliged to do so, rather than unilaterally setting very ambitious objectives that can then be systematically breached. As far as the rest of the groups are concerned, Mr Maneiro, I will refer briefly to you in connection with your little interest during the parliamentary process of this important law, it has been repeatedly made clear in various sessions of this House and also today that your institutional model of this country and ours are completely different. But not only that, but its uniforming model, which seeks to eliminate our historical rights, has no political backing from any other parliamentary group, nor does it have the social support of the citizenry: no mayor, no councillor, no junta. This can be the cause and at the same time the effect of their ignorance of the socio-political reality of this country and of the real needs of our local world. With regard to the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Garrido insists on the delay in the referral of the draft, in breach of the legislative timetable. Of course, Mrs Garrido does not ignore two fundamental issues in this regard, firstly that, being the Basque Government aware that the Rationalization Act was being drafted by the People's Party in Madrid, it was at least prudent to wait for its final outcome in order to be able to develop this bill, and it was not until December 27, 2013 when this law was passed. On the other hand, there was also a parliamentary mandate for the Basque Government to seek institutional consensus on this important matter and this is not achieved overnight. There are subjects I will try to leave for the second round, for the time being. He's talking about competitive clarification. In the area of jurisdictional clarification, well, tell him that the law, this law, follows the model of the Law of Rationalization approved by his party, and that at the same time gave for good the model of the Basic Law of Local Socialist Regime of 85. And of its amendments to Title Three, and more specifically those to Article 17, which are 8, do not bring about substantial or silent changes, which may go along with what they point out, rather they refer to adding unnecessary legal references and I believe that they are inappropriate for the process or for the evolution of the law. He says that the elimination of duplication has not been adequately addressed. Article 16 of the Act is devoted to this, in which the third paragraph contains in its entirety its amendment 306 on what is understood as duplicity for the purposes of the Act. It also proposes the abolition of the Local Government Commission, which is a vital element in ensuring municipal autonomy in the face of the regulatory impetus of common institutions. With regard to the Basque woman, to the concern expressed by the Basque woman, to tell her that we are talking about public services, no matter how the service is provided, and it will apply, logically, depending on the nature and purpose of the contract. It is not the same a construction contract to make a road as a contract to provide a call center service of citizen attention. Regarding transparency and citizen participation, very interesting, we will talk in the second round, because I don't have time. As far as ESAs are concerned, the truth is that I was surprised after the committee meeting, in which both EH Bildu and we urge you to read the transitional provision properly, and you continue to insist that an additional payment obligation is imposed on the municipalities, when clearly the article says it is optional. It is clear that the municipalities, some of them put more money than they get from the government, but it is not obliged, but it is going to be financed, there is going to be a transitional system of additional aid, additional aid, for a maximum period of three years. With regard to the Socialist Group, with regard to the competition system set out in the Act, as we have already said, it was agreed with Eudel and follows the model of the Local Regime Bases Act adopted by the Socialist Party in 1985. Mr. Pastor, without wishing to take credit for your formal claim of essentially municipalist party, which Bildu has questioned a little bit, do you honestly believe that Basque society will understand that the Socialist Party defends the principle of local autonomy more and better than the Association of Basque Municipalities? With regard to all his manifestations about the "foralistic self that permeates the law", I will also try to answer him in the second round. And in terms of funding he says that the municipalities are therefore good because they will remain the poor relatives of the Basque institutional system. The Socialist Party has ruled for many years in Spain, with an absolute majority, and, as far as I know, there is no joint body – if there is one tells me – in Spain between the State Administration and the autonomous communities to decide its financing, and not in autonomous communities that govern, some that set an example, such as the Municipal Law of Andalusia. Nor do I know, even if there is, he tells me, that there is no equal body between the Autonomous Community and the Andalusian municipalities in financial matters. Where is that equality of conditions they claim in Euskadi? It is about defending local autonomy while respecting the rest of the institutions, while respecting the institutional balance. For what you claim, and indeed have done so by submitting a proposal for a law amending the Historical Territories Act, the legal framework should be changed, but not just the Historical Territories Act, at least the statutory and perhaps even the constitutional one. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u77	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Zorrilla, why did you say this of little interest in this law on the part of a servant? You tell me? Little interest, why? No, you have to explain to me why you think I have little interest. We looked deeply at the content of that bill, and we had the courage to put forward an amendment of the whole, which was debated in this Parliament in July and in the corresponding permanent parliament. And in that total amendment we explained perfectly why we considered that bill not to serve Basque interests. And we explained it perfectly. Obviously, then, it no longer made sense to participate in a paper that was going to maintain the fundamentals of what was originally proposed, as has been perfectly clear with the positions of the different groups. What is proposed, what was proposed and what is intended is to fit this municipal law – and this has been said repeatedly by different groups – into the Basque institutional architecture. The foral suit we're suffering from. That is what was proposed, and we, with those amendments in their entirety, have said: we do not agree with this institutional framework. That I'm one in 75? I don't care, I defend my arguments equally. I am convinced of them and believe that Euskadi, in fact, needs a profound reform of its institutional framework, which must include, by the way, the corresponding reform of the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Gernika, the abolition or abolition of the Historical Territories Act, the abolition of outlaws, the abolition of the general councils of the historical territories and the merger of the municipalities. Do you want me to repeat it to you again? That's all we've been defending for seven years. By the way, some political party has already begun to propose changing the names of provincial deputies. It may also soon be proposed to abolish the provincial parliaments, and it may then even be proposed to abolish the outlaws. Because they make no sense, and observe the world around us, that a community of just 2 million inhabitants has four governments, four parliaments, three different fiscal policies, and, to coordinate all that, a good number of coordinating bodies. This doesn't make any sense. I understand that these ideas remain great for you, this merging municipalities is an idea that you, in the end, stay away, do not share it, do not understand it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u78	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u79	They understand it and share it in all the countries around us. This process has been carried out in the main European countries. I understand that you do not understand this or that you may not understand it, but it is the best solution to make public resources available to citizens. It is about having the necessary institutions and making them available to citizens, beyond historical rights and, finally, similar nightly ideas. I understand that my speech is revolutionary, I understand that that speech stays far away from you, but they are progressive ideas, good for society. It is about carrying out all these reforms and this municipal law is one more patch within that absurd framework that we suffer, which we will never defend. The most reasonable thing, the most sensible thing is to carry out all these reforms, that the forality does not condition our life, that we are able to overcome it, that we are able to make available to the citizens the institutions sufficient and necessary for those citizens to receive the best possible public services. This municipal law, therefore, is nothing more than an instrument that can be fitted into that absurd outbuilding. Congratulations, you have a law! They thus consolidate the absurd institutional framework. Do not count on my vote, nor, apparently, on some other votes from other political groups. Therefore, with this law the all-powerful outlaws are consolidated, the forality is consolidated. There is not enough clarification of municipal competences, there is no guarantee of full municipal autonomy and there is no guarantee of equality of Basque citizens regardless of the municipality where they reside. These are the ideas, I defended them in the whole amendment, I defended them for seven years, what I am not going to do is waste time on a paper that does not want to address all those reforms. I mean, I'm not going to waste time with you to talk about maintaining absurd forality, have a single parliamentarian or 27. My ideas are good, progressive, take them into account and, finally, speak with respect in any case to the rest of Parliament. These good ideas of UPyD you don't understand them, they get big, nothing happens, later you will see that they are good. Look also at Europe and what the main European countries are doing. Travel, nationalism and foralism are cured traveling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u80	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The word is represented by the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u81	Okay. Mr. Mazzu, you're talking to me about sectarianism, the Poptular Party, you said it was a sectarian party, but we won't tolerate the lessons there. Of course this law comes out, it seems to be going out with 48 votes out of 75, of course, is that it is a law agreed by the nationalists for the nationalists. I don't think that's a source of satisfaction for a government, for a lehendakari whose preferred partner was the Socialist Party and intended to take this law out with the Socialist Party. The problem is that it encounters very different positions in order to be able to agree on specific issues in relation to this law, and after the general elections, and of the batacasso of EH Bildu in the general elections, because it finds EH Bildu's urgency to need to make a policy more possible and therefore agrees. You join the late presentation, because when your partner comes out, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, now a Member of the Congress of Deputies, but those of us who have been in that presentation, of 14 sessions I have to say that I have missed one and I acknowledge that I have missed one because of the impossibility of reconciling it with other responsibilities also in this Parliament, the position was not one of rapprochement between EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party. You're welcome! Moreover, the Basque Nationalist Party at those meetings seemed to be looking, courting the two parties with which it had the most options to be able to bring this law forward, which were the Socialist Party and EH Bildu. And it is after the result of the general elections when the agreement comes in Eudel and when comes the need for EH Bildu's pact, a change of chromosomes also after the agreement of Eudel. But EH Bildu's position until then was not of approach in the postulates of this law. You weren't there and you also know that it was precisely with the transactions already made to that paper, and that even you had to remember that there were texts that were fucked and that, therefore, the subject was already made and cooked. There has therefore been a clear need for two parties to agree, which I think is very good, but it has been for two nationalist parties and that bias is clearly noted in many of the provisions of this law. Of course, the Basque Nationalist Party had a need to make a box, of course, a need to make a box: One of the most important laws, which I saw not taking it out, because the amendment of the whole we discussed it in July, was enabled the month to discuss the amendment of the whole. We had a constructive position, we did not vote for the amendment as a whole, we did not table it, but 182 partial amendments. Of course, need to make box, Mr. lehendakari. As much as you sold us 23 bills yesterday. In any case, it will refer to those adopted in the Governing Council, but not to those adopted in this House. Of the 29 bills that you said were going to be passed in this legislature, in your legislative calendar, upon entering this Parliament, we had five passed. Yes, I will tell you what are: the Basque Plan for Statistics, the Plan for the Prevention and Correction of Soil Pollution, the Statute for Women Farmers, the fifth amendment to the Basque Parliament Act, and the Plan for Public Shows and Recreational Activities. Now we have six, when we leave the parliamentary session today we seem to have some more, but not 23, Mr Lehendakari. 23 you will have passed – if there are 23, you will have to compare them – but passed laws of the bills that you had provided for in the legislative calendar, six so far, so far. Therefore, the management balance leaves much to be desired, Mr Lehendakari, no matter how much you try to sell us something else and no matter how much you try to make too much propaganda lately – I don't know if in view of an electoral advance, which still, by the way, much remains to be done – and above all, by trying to cover up the inaction in terms of management and legislative production that has clearly been seen with the balance of the approved laws of the commitments you have made. So don't tell us "compromise fulfilled." No, no, Of the 29 commitments you promised, only, so far, six passed laws. Mr Zorrilla referred to the institutional consensus. Well, institutional consensus will have been sought among the nationalist parties. Because with the rest of the games... Indeed, we have entered into some agreement, some transaction, some transaction was presented to us. Mr. Zorrilla complains that we did not tell him the position; of course, it is that the final position was also conditioned to the final agreement, which was finally with EH Bildu. On the issue of social emergency aid, the truth is that you have made a real splash. Because when you incorporate this transitional regime, you talk about the revision of the Basque system, making a diagnosis. All this puts it in an article of a law. I mean, a monumental boulder. They speak of a specific diagnosis; that a technical commission attached to the department will be created; that it will then be taken, for debate, and that a text will have to be made by the end of the first half of 2016, a report that will then also be made available to another commission. I mean, an absolute hunchback. And as much as you want to tell me, you are trying to dilute, with the prediction that you are finally contemplating in this transitional provision agreed between you two, the responsibility of the Basque Government in the payment of social aid. I was in the process of the last amendment of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act – well, rather, in that approved law, not in the last amendment; when it was approved – and specifically in section 91, the provision was made that the Basque Government was obliged to record the necessary amounts when the municipalities did not meet their demand requirements in social emergency aid. You, therefore, with this sluggishness that you have made here, of so much study, of so much report, and in a transitional way to which we are referring, clearly want to dilute the responsibilities that you have as a government to pay for this aid. In short: lack of ambition, lack of leadership, a missed opportunity... We could have gone much further on a lot of issues. And of course, a delay where... Do not talk to me about the delay of these months in the Basque Parliament; tell me about the delay of this law in arriving at the Basque Parliament and arriving at a good port with a text approved after you have been, at least four years, every year in the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u82	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u83	Thank you. Well, what I have been able to see is that neither Mr de Bildu nor Mr PNV have responded to any of the statements I have made here regarding the dependency role that the municipalities continue to have regarding the outside. Not one of you. They have forgotten article 118, it seems, and they talk about other things. I thought, I think we were all thinking, that here we were talking about a law to strengthen municipal autonomy and to place the municipalities in their proper institutional place; that is, on an equal footing with the other two administrations: the Basque administration and the historical territories. And it turns out that we now have a level, it is true, that of the common institutions and that of the historical territories, and then a smaller paw, which are the municipalities. That is what this law enshrines, however much Mr. Maeztu comes out here very nervous trying to justify something that, simply, Mr. Maeztu, you know what it is? These gentlemen wanted a cheap deal and you sold it to them very cheaply. And then you have preferred to make the deal with you, because you have bought the whole shopping basket minus two pochos peppers. That was your agreement. Because I'm gonna tell you a little something. On the same day that you signed the agreement, you came out saying that you had achieved two historic achievements: the participation with voice and vote of the municipalities in the Basque Finance Council. But if that was in the original project, presented by the government! Secondly, it was an element of enlightenment: "We have made the municipalities, here you are, have the capacity for binding consultations". Fuck, like all my life! I have been mayor and have convened consultations that are binding, if so decided by the city council in the area of its competence, but with the basic state legislation. Therefore, if those are the achievements that you have achieved, then in the end, may God come and see him, I do not see them anywhere. And then you say, "No, we play major," after you've accepted that municipalities don't have real decision-making power over their finances. Because it will recognize me that the law says they are a recommendation in fiscal policy. Thus, strictly, article 118. You read it! Therefore, if it is recommendation it is not binding, and if it is not binding you do not have decision-making capacity. And he says, "But we play great, because we're going to decide on the Basque Law of Contributions." Lie, read the text! He says that the municipalities are recognized to be able to participate in the discussions for the elaboration of the new law, but to discuss is not to decide, it is to discuss, and that is to do black, dirty work so that another in the end decides whether it is good or bad the work that has been done. And then with the AES, please read what you're talking about the AES. Read it because you said it wrong in the committee. It is not true that small municipalities are told that the Basque Government pays two thirds and they pay one third; no, what it says is that small municipalities pay 30% and the Government pays a maximum of another 30% compared to the initial amount. That's not two-thirds. And in the big ones, the difference is that the Basque government pays the same, but the municipalities put 50%. That is what comes in the text of the amendment which you have agreed and which is written one letter on another with commas and dots. What you have said is a very generous interpretation, but it does not respond to the reality of the facts. And then, Mr. Zorrilla, man, don't cheat! Don't tell me that the Basque municipalities have more resources than the rest of Spain! Of course, because in this Community, fortunately, we have more resources available and, therefore, we have more capacity to distribute to the municipalities. And don't set the Andalusian example, don't set another trap, that's another field of play, there's no economic concert, there's no outlaws, and the relationships, in Andalusian law, municipalities-government are from you, municipalities-government. Look at that easy and simple, no intermediate elements, no zarandajas of any kind... It is true: with less money, because they have less economic resources available than those which, fortunately, have our Autonomous Community. Therefore, realities that are not homogeneous cannot be compared, unless one wants to cheat. But in any case, I value, as we have put it, that there is a law – it is always better a law than none – but it is bad. It could have been much better; many opportunities have been missed along the way. If I understand the position of the PNV, they want to safeguard the outlaws at all costs. But if you have been the ones who have laid down all the municipal projects that have been in the world, except the last one, because you have forgotten to say that they have resorted to the Arbitral Commission, but the Arbitral Commission has given reason to the Patxi López Government that that project did not invade the municipal powers. You have gathered the previous allegations of the deputies and have dropped them here. And it's good to be called local institutions of Euskadi, because also the deputies are, because of the municipal has little.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u84	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Mazzu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. First, that I have not been able to mention in the first part of the subject to mention time, and which is very important to us, and what is more important to us, and what is more important to us, and what is more important to us, we think we have hit upon the Social Party and the Poptular Party. And it is in the case of the eucalyptus, that the use of resistance in the law of which it has been established will be a proper jurisdiction of the municipal or local institutions. And because with this we get a shield from Madrid at the moment, and not only from Madrid, but from Gastize, and when I'm on the way to Gastize, I'm talking about getting a shelter from the attacks that come from the Delegative Government. And a recommendation for you alone in this respect: we are all eloquent, and I advise you to come to this variety, because we live very well in this variety. And I think it is also time to continue to deny the lies that you have been repeating over and over again on this subject since it was taken to committee and now here in plenary. The issue of social emergency aid. I think there is the text and it is going to be read and it is very clear. Councils of less than 20,000 inhabitants, all that they have to put above the initial allocation, one third assume it, two thirds will assume it by the Basque Government. Today they assume it at 100%. And that comes just like I'm saying in the law itself. And over 20,000 inhabitants, 50-50. Today they have to assume 100%. But you were talking cheaply, do you know what that clause means in millions on the basis of what the municipalities had to pay in 2015? EUR 3.8 million more than the Basque Government will have to put in. In those budgets that you agreed with the Basque Government, you had an item for that, for the same concept, of EUR 1 million. He comes here with all his jet that he's paid a million euros for social emergency aid, he comes here and tells the guy who got 3.8 million euros in the negotiation of municipal law, that we've lowered our pants. What a party you have, Mr. Pastor, it's awesome! We have not put nine roundabouts for your nine municipalities, we have not put it in the negotiation, as you put it in the budgets. Not that, in those "caros" deals you guys make. EUR 3.8 million in social emergency aid represents this clause. Do the math and look at it. And Mrs. Garrido, may you tell us about a law that is going to come out with the support of 48 parliamentarians, which accounts for 80% or less of mayor's governments... I'm going to remind you of a law passed last year's legislature here, the Income Guarantee Act. Thirty-eight came out, the Socialist Party and the People's Party. For what? To raise the registration requirement from one year to three years and reduce the number of social assistance preceptors. You come here too, who signed that agreement, saying that you have achieved 3.8 million in the negotiation of municipal law, you tell us that we are making transfers to the government in matters of social assistance. Throw yours, too. And finally, the municipalities since the beginning of this bill, it is true, had a voice and vote at the Basque Finance Council. What has been defined is what aspects they are going to vote on. Article 117.5: in horizontal coefficients. I didn't mean it like that, because I understand that people don't understand that they're the horizontal coefficients. But it is, once the vertical coefficient is made, the Basque Government and the deputies will have a voice and vote when deciding how much it goes to each historical territory. Not then in the historical territories how much will be distributed to the municipalities. That is where we have managed to get the minimums to decide by their representatives on the Basque Finance Council, but that is that in the general box they will decide with a voice and with a vote. Article 117.5. We have therefore succeeded in empowering the municipalities and participating equally with the Basque Government and the outlaws in the distribution of this country's general resources. And finally, discussions are discussions. I know everyone has to defend theirs in this place. The law is there, the texts are there. Thanksgiving to the different crews that have been negotiated. We know it wasn't easy negotiations, it's been long, but we think we finally got a good law. And a good law is not the law of the Basque People in the United States, it is not the law of the Jestric Party, it is the law of local institutions. And that's why we should be satisfied that it's a law for the people, because if local institutions are involved, they can guarantee worthy public services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u86	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u87	Thank you. Well, from our point of view, we understand that it is clear that this law guarantees the principle of local autonomy, which was the main objective of it, and that it configures the municipality as a genuine local government. Why? Because it attributes them, as we have said, a wide range of action material, up to 37 subjects, and it is also not closed; it recognizes them the right to participate actively in all the processes that promote and approve the various local institutions, of all – yes, then I will enter with that, Mr. Pastor; it establishes an early warning system in defense of local autonomy, and regulates their presence in the Basque Finance Council as a full member. Therefore, these four things I believe give a status of autonomy to the Basque municipality which neither as a whole nor separately is found in any local legislation that is in force throughout the State. Tell me, from the Socialist Group, Mr Pastor – calm down, as I know you can't answer, it will be a rhetorical question – and you can start with those that govern your party, in which autonomous communities these four premises fulfill – well, I also settle for you to tell me those that meet any of these four. None, Mr. Pastor, none. And today it is possible, as I said in my first intervention, thanks to our historical rights and our uniqueness foral and the efforts made by the PNV in Madrid to exempt the application of the Law of Rationalization in Euskadi. I'll try to answer some of the things I've had pending before. With regard to Mrs Garrido's comments, which I have been to all the meetings of the presentation and I know what her evolution has been, as well as in the negotiations with the various parties. So, talk about what you know. With regard to the appointment of local municipal members participating in the Basque Public Policy Council and the Basque Finance Council, you have put forward a formula, and there may be many formulas. Yours, elected by the general assemblies, I do not know whether on the basis of some foral tutelage, it could also be democratic to be appointed by this Parliament, or the formula proposed by the Socialist Party, we assume that for the sake of democracy and plurality, which was to be appointed one representative for each political party of the three that would have received the most votes in the local elections. We, and Bildu too, share that what is also democratic and also guarantees and better defends municipal autonomy – which is what this law deals with – is that it is the municipalities themselves that, through their association, the Eudel association, in which all, the 251 municipalities, choose their representatives. Regarding local entities, he spoke of the gangs and councils. I think it lacks the truth, as you usually say. I believe that both Euzko Abertzaleak and Bildu echoed the demands of the Association of Councils of Araba, ACOA, by presenting the corresponding amendments and even their approach is contradictory with one of the amendments tabled, namely 307, and with the title, the title shows that they have been taken into account. As regards transparency and citizen participation, this matter is very interesting, it is true that it has given great importance to transparency, in fact 90 of its 170 amendments to the joint text focus on this matter. And it is curious what the People's Party is doing in this area, since they set by basic legislation the minimums of transparency, and then propose to increase those minimums when they are not concerned with them and without knowing the opinions of those affected. A clear example is the transparency obligations of the governing bodies: Article 52 of this Act provides for subparagraph (k), while Article 6 of its State Transparency Act regulates two subparagraphs that are beyond the obligations of this matter. And also at least it is curious that the People's Group, in an exercise as a pyromaniac firefighter, wants to become little less than the adalid of transparency and especially when the obligations are for others. There is nothing more to see, how this same party, the People's Party in Madrid, is acting, where Mr Rajoy's government in office, in a clear exercise of opacity, refuses parliamentary control, control of representatives of the citizenry and to account for its management. So less preach transparency to others and apply the story, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Re-emphasize the inaction of the Government. It's a thing that repeats all the time. I think it has already become clear that the Government has complied by referring 23 of the 29 projects to this Parliament, to this House. The example is this law, sent on November 12, 2014. Today is April 7, 2016. On 17 November, this group submitted 12 compromise proposals to the People's Group, and the People's Group has been pending three compromise proposals since that date. It was not made until the last meeting of the presentation, even some later. I don't know if the issue of inaction is government or parliament. And in that case, we'll have to analyze what the causes are, because we've been accused in this paper of wanting to take them to "kick hammer," literally. And in some laws, you have asked for an extension of the deadline, and then you have not tabled the corresponding amendments. With regard to ESAs, and I was surprised by Mr Pastor's intervention, who did not learn much about what the legal text contained in the seventh transitional provision, that simply with a reading, a new reading, probably, and with the explanations given by Mr Maeztu, can be clarified. And I am left alone with regard to all your manifestations, Mr. Pastor, about the supposed forality that permeates the law. The law can be adopted in these terms precisely because of our uniqueness. As I have already mentioned, the law cannot be abstracted from the internal jurisdictional distribution existing in this Autonomous Community, as was not done by the socialist project either. In other words, the Basque legal framework must be respected. He disagreed that the Basque Council for Local Public Policies and the Local Government Commission should be robbed of the possibility of participating in and intervening in initiatives from historical territories that might affect municipal competences. With regard to the Basque Council for Public Policy, I have to say that as much as I have looked at the fifth title, articles 39 et seq. of its draft, the draft approved in the past legislature, I have not been able to find its inclusion; moreover, it was a joint body between government and municipalities alone. And now, unlike that, the historic territories do participate in that council, we do not know whether this is due to some foral pass or the need to gain the support of their government partner. With regard to the Commission of Local Governments, in order for municipalities to be able to participate in the elaboration of the norms and public policies outside, article 5 was introduced in the first title of the law, interpreting the provisions of the seventh title, which guarantees the right at each institutional level to form this commission of local governments. And to a greater extent it was the socialist representative of Eudel, according to the minutes of the working group, vice-president, for more signs, who maintained a position contrary to that which the Socialist Group now defends, basically arguing that he did not see the reason for a Gipuzcoan or alaves municipality to have an opinion on a Vizcain foral norm and vice-versa, reasoning to which the Gipuzcoan Foral Diputación joined. Therefore, and finally, it draws our attention powerfully to the fact that the same legal text, the same bill, serves some, the Socialist Group, to say literally that it places the municipalities at the expense of the parliaments, and others, the People's Group, to say that the new law is going to lower the powers of outside institutions. As we said before, efforts have been made to seek, and with some arguments it seems to have been achieved, the difficult balance between the three institutional areas of the Basque institutional architecture and all this within the existing legal framework.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u88	Finish it, Mr. Zorrill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u89	I'm finishing up, Madam President. Faced with the shameful spectacle that we are seeing at the state level, with a situation of blockade and division, here in Euskadi the agreement between different is possible, it is dialogue, it is negotiated and it is agreed to build, to consolidate our institutions, in this case, the local entities. Finally, I want to thank the contributions of all the teams especially for the readiness and determination that EH Collector took to make an agreement. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u90	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion's over, we'll start the vote. First of all, I rang the doorbell, didn't I? I did it before. Well, it doesn't matter. But we're all here. Well, we'll start the vote. The misto-UPyD reserved corrections are placed at the vote, except those which have been introduced to the explanation. Yeah, you want to go out with 212. Correction. All right. That's all. Then we vote first 212 corrections. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 48; contraries, 15. White, 0; Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u91	So it's accepted. After that, we'll vote for the other amendments. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; supporters 1, contrary, 73; white, 0; abstain, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u92	So they didn't accept it. Next, the peculiar suffrages made by the popular Basque Group, and the reserved corrections, are agreed upon, except those which have been introduced to the explanation and to the title of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; counters, 63; whites, 0; Abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u93	So they didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the terms reserved by the Socialist Basque Group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 15; counters, 58; white, 0; Abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u94	So they didn't accept it. Next, if anyone wants to get out of Nozdrev, say the articles which are intended for the corrections reserved for them, from 1 to 7, 9, 11 to 14, 16 to 27, 30 to 36, 39 to 42, 45, 47, 49, 50, 52, 57, 61 and 62 to 71, 74 to 88, 9095, 98, 108, 109, 111, 111, 1 to 4th, 1 to 42, and the fourth and the third, and the third to the third, and the third. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrary, 26; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u95	So they're accepted. The articles of transcripts which have no joint correction, that is to say, 8, 10, 15, 28, 29, 37, 43, and 38, 46, 48, 51, 58 to 60, 72 and 73, 89, 96, and 97, 107, 10.1, 10.1, 121, first, second, second, second, second, and second, fourth, and fourth, and fourth, and fourth regulations, except the last and fifth of the regulations. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 48; opposites, 16; white, 0; Abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u96	So they're accepted. The special suffrages and corrections of the Potion of Euscals, from 460 to 471, are agreed upon by the explanation. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u97	So they didn't accept it. They vote for Misto-UPyD team 450 and 485. The corrections, says the explanation. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; supporters 1, contrary, 73; white, 0; abstain, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u98	So they didn't accept it. The peculiar suffrage of the Basque Potula is put to vote by the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; counters, 63; whites, 0; Abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u99	So he didn't accept it. The explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrary, 26; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u100	So they're accepted. So the Basque Office Act has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Irrefuture of the Office of Secret and Preservative, made upon the legal proposition of entering the public contract of certain social clauses. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board to file a judgment? No. Misto-UPyD. It's your word, Mr. Maniro. Please silence. (Response)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u101	Thank you very much, President. A pleasure, Mr. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u102	I'm asking you to keep quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u103	Social clauses. Let us go on to say that we would have liked the promoters of this popular legislative initiative to have had the opportunity to defend it in plenary, at the beginning of this whole process. We would also have liked that they could have had a presence in the presentation, that they could have had a presence in the committee where the amendments of the different groups were discussed...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u105	... and that they would also have had a presence in today's plenary, so that they could present their arguments and defend with their voice – not with their vote – the measures proposed in this popular legislative initiative. I hope that the legislative proposal put forward at the time, registered by UPyD and which is in progress in this Parliament, can be adopted as soon as possible so that all this can be done as soon as possible. I should now like to recall the two reasons why we voted in favour of taking into account the popular legislative initiative which ends today. First, because it was more than 100,000 Basques who signed that ILP, which does not mean that they were right in everything they proposed, nor in the way they proposed it, but it was a large enough number of signatures to at least discuss the initiative and then, through partial amendments from the different groups, try to improve it. And two, because the ILP touched on a sensitive issue that affected the working and social conditions in the sub-contracts of the public administrations. The problem is that the promoters' goal was more media than political or legislative. The problem is that this Parliament has no legislative powers either in public procurement or in labour legislation. The problem is that the text originally proposed was unconstitutional. The problem is that the ILP included illegal proposals, unconstitutional proposals and proposals that violated basic legislation. Beyond the title, what the ILP wanted was for this House to be able to legislate on collective agreements and for subrogation to be established on a universal basis for all types of procurement. In other words, the ILP proposed us impossible, wrapped in a social discourse and that at first it might seem reasonable, but the truth is that it proposed us impossible. That is why we tabled eight amendments aimed at curbing these excesses, correcting them and also trying to agree on an alternative text with the various parliamentary groups. Finally, the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group reached a reasonable agreement. In the words of Mr Itxaso, "a formula that enables the Basque public sector to incorporate social clauses by means of a normative instrument, in this case with force of law". I must say that the text agreed between the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group seems reasonable to us. And so, beyond the amendments put forward by UPyD, which will surely be rejected by the rest of the groups, beyond having good consideration in previous debates, we will finally vote in favour of this text signed and agreed between the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u106	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u107	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Indeed, it is the final step towards the adoption of a popular legislative initiative, the wording of which speaks of the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement. That would necessarily lead us to raise two issues. One, what are social clauses in hiring? And a second question, whether the popular legislative initiative really dealt with this fact? And this is what we Socialists want to talk about today in this House, dealing with nothing more and nothing less than a popular legislative initiative. And I'll start by asking a rhetorical question. What would be called collecting signatures for a legislative initiative on which we have no legislative competence? I leave the question to everyone to understand what answer he deserves, but this is a transcendent question, because the main argument of authority of the applicants is, in fact, that there are 110,000 signatures collected and that this makes it impossible for the proposal to be rejected by the crowd that supports it. Precisely and before entering into the content of what the ILP is, it is appropriate to talk, even briefly, about what social clauses are in contracting. This is a concept that has become increasingly important in the hands of European directives, which ultimately means that the inclusion of social, labour or environmental conditions in public procurement can be a factor or tool at the service of public authorities for the effective fulfilment of their public purposes or policies. It is a form of intervention by the public authorities in economic, social and political life, and it is possible to guide behaviour aimed at the economic agents concerned. So, in the end, in all this European legal acquis, the question is to change the idea of the most advantageous tender offer from the idea of the best value for money. This necessarily brief explanation, of what social clauses are in public procurement, is necessary to then examine whether what the ILP proposes is really a question of this nature. Of course, the first thing he raises is a law. A law. We, as the spokesman for UPyD, Mr Maneiro, has already said, have no legislative competence in the field of contracts, in public procurement, and in labour matters, and we do not even have any legislative development, only of mere implementation. Therefore, to suggest that a law can collect this sort of thing, it seems to us simply that it had no possibility of travelling at all. Because, basically, we talked about social clauses, but popular legislative initiative only mentioned two nuclear issues, the issue of conventions and the issue of subrogation. Of course, the question of the agreements to begin with is covered by the Workers' Statute, and on what is the preferred application, is covered by 84.2. We cannot, as legislators, invade an area of collective bargaining, and the same goes for subrogation, which, as has been said by the previous spokesman, was intended to be indiscriminately for all types of contracts, services, supplies, works... where it turns out that the subrogation in the Workers' Statute only refers to business successions, in Article 44, only business successions. And the doctrine of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court is very abundant, which clearly states that reliefs in administrative contracts do not mean, much less, succession of enterprises. Who speaks of subrogation is the consolidated text of the Public Sector Contracts Act, which speaks of the case of subrogation, which may have, as I say, legal origin, i.e. based on the Workers' Statute, whether there is a succession of companies, or a conventional origin, i.e., whether there is a collective agreement that collects it. And again, we come into the realm of what is the invasion of aspects that are part of collective bargaining. There is one very recent fact: the Constitutional Court, at the request of the Supreme Court, makes a judgment for which it gives the very reason to the ELA union, in the case of EITB workers. And what does the Constitutional Court say? It is precisely because the budget law which took away 5% of these workers could not be adopted, because it could only be the result of an agreement between management and the workers. That is to say, we have a clear example that the legislator here, there and there can not enter into aspects that are reserved exclusively for collective bargaining. But of course, when we say that subrogation belongs to collective agreements, we talk about collective agreements of a statutory nature, which are precisely those that sign the most representative trade union centres. But it turns out that here, right in Euskadi, we have the rate of coverage by minor agreements from all over Spain, from all over the state, that is, with the majority ELA union. We have therefore reached an agreement, as has been said, with the Basque Nationalist Party, despite the fact that we have many discrepancies, which have been expressed in the course of the debates that have taken place in this area. We reproached the Government for taking this matter into consideration, which will explain to us what the title of competence was, the enabling title to regulate this matter. Similarly, there was an agreement in 2013 urging the Government to draft a package of general clauses including issues relating to the conventions. Similarly, an appearance no less than the Advisory Board on Recruitment, which took place in the Finance Commission, and of course, we had no opportunity to be counseled at all, because to nuclear questions about whether it was possible to legislate in this area, the answer was either no or no answer. However, we have reached this agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party because it has seemed to us as socialists that after all this journey, it was necessary that at least a text that was viable within the constraints should come out. And that is the text that, as has been said, we have agreed, which will surely appear to the sponsors to them loose and scarce, but it is the only text that is viable. Because we could have made other agreements that were certainly very pro-Soviet, very Bolshevik, but they would not have come out of parliamentary arithmetic either. And on the other hand, we do indeed have political representation and have political responsibilities, because it is not the same thing that I have the right to intervene in politics – of course, everyone – but political responsibilities are shared by the political parties that we represent the citizens. And I say this, because, of course, it would also be necessary for the plant itself to assume its own trade union responsibilities, because, as I said, not even the collective bargaining that is so much invoked lives its best days with this type of trade union centre and with these approaches, which, by the way, prioritized the company agreements. And then we talk in general that we have doubts about capacity and competition, but we say it, in the end, because we always have to grant the benefit of doubt, but, really, we have no doubts at all. Why? Among other things, because here is a law, 8/1986, which speaks of the popular legislative initiative and says clearly, in Article 2: "They are excluded from the popular legislative initiative" – which ones? – "those matters on which the autonomous community lacks legislative competence". Well, man, if it was so clear, why did we go all this way? We have done so because the debate seems important to us, because the issue is truly important, that public procurement should be used in the future to guide certain public policies. But if someone is dissatisfied with what is to be agreed here, he must have the assurance and the assurance that it will not be insufficient, because on 18 April, when the deadline for the transposition of the European directives on procurement expires, since they have not been transposed on that date, they are directly applicable because of the known vertical direct effect, and they can be raised and the contracting authorities can carry out the award procedures on the basis of what these directives say. Specifically Article 18 of 24/2014 states that "Member States shall take the relevant measures to ensure that economic operators comply with environmental, social or labour obligations in the execution of public contracts". And then, in a series of recitals, it speaks precisely of the subjection to the conventions. This guarantee that the existence of the conventions may be included seems to us to be that, in application of the directives, it has as much virtuality as possible that the applicant's claim may not have been met, but it comes from the hand, as I say, of that European legislation. And to regret, in any case, that in this process we were able to go through with doubts that they had no reason to do so, because we would not have made the debate dirty, but rather with legal certainty as to how far we can go. What we find unacceptable is that neither the Government has made a reference, which is usually a standard and styled clause in any consideration of whether or not we have an enabling title, it did not; the Advisory Board on Recruitment also faded away in explanations that did not make any sense, and it turns out that we have a law that speaks of popular legislative initiative that clearly excludes all those issues on which we do not have jurisdiction. And in this case we talk about public procurement and labour matters, about labour law. Therefore, we understand that the agreement reached is, I do not know if the best possible, but it was the one that was feasible, and I thank Mr Aldaiturriaga for his good offices, his availability, which is one of the reasons why we have also come to that agreement. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u108	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Arrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u109	Thank you. Good noon to all of you, and good noon to those who were at the top, to the guests who brought this proposal to the union with the LAB union. In the October of 2013, the legislator of the citizens, driven by the ELA union, came to the legislature, as we all know, with the protection of 110,000 signatures. So, after two and a half years, we've been discussing the report from the Ogage Board today. It has certainly been a long journey, and full of obstacles, no doubt, from the beginning. First of all, he received a false opinion, and then, in this parliament, he went on with the adoption of some groups, the vote of the Social Party and the EH Collectorate, and then the Badge Fortalous Forbital Forge brought up a question of hand at the Arbitraje board, and the Arbitrajes took the reason out of him until we came here for a few months. The initiative that protected 1,10,000 signatures had been determined: In the public services and works of Araba, Biscay, and Gipulia, in public contracts, to end with the pretorium, and to secure a minimum of decent conditions of work. For this purpose there were three proposals at the foundation of the whole series of articles which were given to the subsections in the legislative assembly of the people: and to prevent the punishment of persons who do not observe the demands received on the terms of the condition. From our point of view, the subject of importance, which has often been mentioned in this legislature. In the end, because public opposition is a highly important economic activity and the regulating of service and functional conditions would be an important advance to face the present preventive state. The legislative initiative of the unions of ELA received the protection of our party from the very beginning, the protection of the EH Collectors. We have set up several additional corrections from the starting-point and the basis of the proposed proposal. That's what we've been doing with our proposedors and LAB unions and other operators. And therefore the corrections proposed have been of two sorts. On the one hand, having agreed with the basic text, we have introduced certain specifications through correcting: Around the prices of liquidations, about corporate agreements, and so on. And other corrections are concerned with other parts which must be applied in public contract. The equality between men and women has, indeed, been a clause between the clauses of language, about environment, or the health of labour. But after two and a half years of this whole meeting, what do we meet with? Well, the report that's brought in isn't valid from our point of view, in order to face today's situation. In fact, the conditions of the workingmen's labors are rejected by the political choice which was to protect them, and they make fun of the proposal. It does not at all receive what ILP proposed, nor what was proposed by our conduct. He does not aim at a single object among those who were masters. It's not guaranteed the latest work contract in the smallest area of the sector, the program of sectorial agreement. It's only in the report that the consumers need to tell us which kind of work contractors apply. How far from the proposition! And how far away from what is really necessary to-day! It doesn't acknowledge that this opposition is under the subrogation of all workers who have at least three months of age. And not if he talks to a third part of the company contract he's assigned to, then the workers who worked that work first will be subconscious. What you've said in the text you agreed to is that if it's in the contract, then the subrogation will be there, and that, as I said at the committee, we don't need laws. This also at the present day: If there is an agreement in the treaty, he's giving subrogation to various services today. It does not say anything about litigation, but it does not guarantee that the price of litigation is sufficient to ensure the contract of labour and worthy conditions of labour. He doesn't talk either. Lastly, the consequences of not fulfilling these conditions follow from the observation of them, but from the observation of the foregoing two, it has no meaning to mention them in the discussion of the present day. At the present day the prices of liquidation are descending. We are all conscious of it. And to lower the price of licitation, it directs the preparation, and to some of the local companies also find it more difficult to survive, and others to open all doors to follow whatever they want to do. Adibidez, eraikuntzan, éza da guk esaten dugula Bakarrik. Begira, Gipuzkoari buruz hitz egiten eta orokorrean: "The fall in public tender prices triggers layoffs in construction. The great Basque builders have cut down a hundred jobs in recent months. About 200 workers are in ERE or about to get into it." This is reality and it is doing for services that are sterilized from public services. And that's our responsibility and the government and the fun. Here we have more than once discussed what is going on in several public works; Mustikene, less than 30% of the bottom assigned price, 1 51% of the Aquinit, below, at the High School, 40% of lititation prices. And many more and many more. Is this an acceptable situation? Well, we don't think so, and that's why we agreed and we're on our side with the agreement we've made and the corrections we've made. And it's serious, it's serious what's happening and it's a lot bigger than what you've agreed on today or the texts you bring in the Social Party and the EAJk. This agreement between you enables you to persist in applying to the less pretorial conditions of public contracts, in practice, with the situation now given. You have wasted the chance to guarantee worthy conditions of public contract, from our point of view, and you have ruined thousands of men's opportunity of becoming worthy conditions of work. It is again evident, that in prejudice to the conditions of labor in subordinate labor, money in public contracts is the privilege of saving money. And we understand that it's just another example of the public policies that MJ does after all. Therefore, from the very beginning, the attitude of the EAJ has been clear: he did not like the proposal; he did not think it convenient for him to propose it, and he tried to prevent it from the first. And in the end, he's managed to demean the proposition with the help of the Social Party. The attitude and course of the Social Party had been strange these two years. What you agreed to, as I told you the other day, has nothing to do with the corrections you introduced. It's not understandable. Instead of defending the workers' work conditions, you helped EAJ and AMI to ruin the initiation. But while we discuss this, for people, for people, for people, for people, a principal problem, a chief concern, a labor, a lack of employment, and a degree of premeditation. But fun doesn't do anything because there's no political will. We have here discussed the initiations of public politics several times during the past few months, and have received the same answer: No. No. And this is someone else. Because the price of reductions is well brought down, because it is cheaper, because it is cheap; for the application of the Araba, Bizkai, Gipulia, and Navarre's labor contract costs the price. For, after all, he is not really ready to face the Praediction and the Injustice. Yesterday, Mr. Urkullu, Mr. &c. We've had very hard years, but prevaricant, poverty, unemployment... Not a word again. In the meantime, there are about 80,000 people working in the company dependent on the public sector. It's in the power of political decisions and again, EAJ, he refuses, with PSE's help, in this case, to guarantee it. The proposal, therefore, is not to be made to-day, the initiation, the corrections, but our priority is clear; to defend the worthy conditions of labour, with all the instruments and powers required for it. I hope in the second part there's an opportunity to talk a little about powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Alter fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u111	Thank you, ma'am. Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the department, fellow members of the legislature, good noon to all. It was the reason of those who introduced the popular sense of legislation that the conditions of work were socially unacceptable in the building attorney. For instance, an uncontrolled sub-contractation, was under the contract the wages and the hours of work, and so on. These situations are unacceptable, not only to proposeers, but also to our team. Those who present the evidence are apt to boil the guilt of the situation to the economic crisis and the form of work that Congress has accepted, even though they know it isn't the person who created the crisis, not even the manager of the work-reform. Our group, as our party in the governing institutions has done, has always tried to use all the tools at its disposal to eliminate or minimize the production of such socially unacceptable situations. But with the feet on the ground, looking for the match between the aims pursued and the means available to them, as we do now with this initiative within the framework of our competences in the field of public procurement. But let's look at the initiative presented by ELA. Already in their explanatory statement, the promoters of the ILP offered us some clue about the true purpose of what they are proposing. Just read the second, third and fifth paragraphs to understand that it focuses exclusively on certain labour aspects of public procurement. In this line, the third paragraph of article 4 of the ILP submitted was in line. It was literally said, ladies and gentlemen, that "The conditions laid down in the text of the territorial collective agreement shall conform to the minimum conditions under which workers who carry out the activities covered by the contract may be employed, irrespective of whether the said agreement has become invalid as a result of the provisions of Article 86.3 of the Staff Regulations". In this way, it was clearly intended to act on a matter of a clearly working nature, such as the relations between the employer and the worker, and it did so in our view to alter the determinations of the labour reform operated by Law 3/2012. But it seeks to alter it from the point of view of public procurement and public procurement, ladies and gentlemen, it has another purpose. It aims to regulate the procurement of the public sector, adapting it to Community directives in order to ensure that it complies with the principles of freedom and access to tenders, publicity and transparency in procedures, and non-discrimination and equal treatment between candidates, ensuring efficient use of public resources by safeguarding free competition and selecting the most economically advantageous offer. In addition, the Contracts Act lists a number of businesses and legal relations excluded from its scope that will be regulated by its special rules, including contracts regulated by labour law. However, that public procurement must integrate and enhance social policies is something that no one is discussing. In this sense, the Contracts Act itself provides that social aspects may be taken into account by so-called social clauses in public procurement. But what are the social clauses of public procurement, ladies and gentlemen? The social clauses are provisions which oblige the successful tenderers of a public contract to comply with certain objectives, in addition to the object of the contract. They may refer to considerations such as promoting the employment of persons with particular difficulties in entering the labour market, eliminating gender-based social inequalities in the labour market, combating unemployment, promoting training in the workplace or other purposes which are established with reference to the coordinated employment strategy defined in Article 145 of the Treaty on European Union, or ensuring respect for basic labour rights by requiring compliance with ILO conventions, in particular. It should be recalled that the particular administrative clause documents are administrative documents which include the covenants and conditions defining the rights and obligations of the parties to the contract, which are based on the principle of freedom of pacts, but which have as their limit those which are not contrary to the public interest, the legal order and the principles of good administration. It is therefore important to bear in mind that contracts in the public sector may include any covenants, clauses and conditions provided that they are not contrary to the legal order, i.e. that the specifications must be subject to the laws. With regard to compliance with the specifications of the laws, notes on labour reform. The labour reform carried out by Law 3/2012 has substantially amended the Act on the Status of Workers. In the part relating to collective agreements, Article 84.2 of the Staff Regulations gives priority to the company agreement or the agreement of the group of undertakings, in respect of the State, autonomous or lower-territorial sectoral agreement, inter alia, in the following areas: basic wage and wage supplements, overtime and pay for shifts, hours and distribution of working time, measures for the reconciliation of working, family and personal life. That is to say, the territorial collective agreement sought by the promoters of the ILP has lost its application priority because of the prevalence of the enterprise agreement, so it is not possible to require all the successful tenderers of a public contract to comply with the matters mentioned above and included in a specific territorial collective agreement other than that governing the enterprise. It was intended to impose on all the contracting companies the subjection to working conditions which do not apply to them in accordance with the requirements of the labour law, and we understand that the working conditions in a company are fixed by the workers and the employer, not a third party other than that of the administration which awards a work or a service to that company. In view of this initial proposal, we have made another proposal on the basis of our amendments and those of the Socialist Group which have the following characteristics. Firstly, its scope is broader: it includes the possibility of incorporating social criteria beyond the work aspects contained in the initial ILP. Secondly, we have technically improved the initial proposal, both in terms of the subjective scope and the objective of applying the standard, as the initial relationship led to errors. Similarly, in the face of confusion in the initial text, the assumptions of recruitment, subcontracting and subrogation are clearly distinguished, and a specific regime is established for each of them. With regard to labour relations, in particular, it is proposed that the agreement applied by the contracting companies should be declared from the time of the submission of the tender, which is the subject of general publicity, establishing mechanisms to check that it corresponds to the agreement to be applied in accordance with the labour law, and also providing for the obligation that, once the contract has been awarded, the contracting company should not proceed unilaterally to make changes which entail a reduction in the working conditions applicable to workers assigned to the performance of that contract. With regard to the subrogation, the obligation is laid down for the new successful tenderer to be covered by the employment contracts of the staff performing the activities which will continue on the occasion of the future contract. In addition, the specifications require that the information on the employment contracts in which the successful tenderer is to be subrogated be included in the specifications. A mechanism is established whereby tenderers can obtain information on employment and occupational risk prevention obligations that apply to the contract in question. And finally, the reactions in case of non-compliance are indicated, ranging from the imposition of economic sanctions to the termination of the contract itself, when these clauses are attributed to them as essential. In fine, our proposal is the most realist of planning, the law of the Contracts of the Public Sector allows our fellow-citizens, and also the new jurisprudence, which regulates the conditions of the social clauses of administrative conditions in the making of contracts. And with regard to the amendments tabled for this plenary by the Bildu and UPyD groups, we will vote against them all for the following reasons, which have already been set out in both the presentation and the committee which adopted the opinion. Firstly, since most of them are involved in the errors and conceptual confusion that came from the popular legislative initiative, the original text, and in other cases, they aim to extend the scope of action to the environmental aspects of the public clauses, which are not the subject of direct or indirect analysis under the ILP presented. In addition, many of them we believe are incorporated, or at least we believe that they have room for both the generic empowerment set out in Article 4 of our proposal and the other rules on social clauses in the public relationship applicable today in our Community. However, we must thank the Joint UPyD Group and the Group of the European People's Party for their support for the text agreed in committee, and also, in particular, Mr Itxaso for his efforts to reach an agreement, which we are submitting to this House today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u112	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing on the answering shift, Misto doesn't have to say a word. Basque Socialists, Mr. Ichaso is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u113	Firstly, Mr Maneiro, thank you for your vote of confidence. Also the People's Party. He didn't know what his position was going to be. Well, thank you very much. We are also going to vote against the amendments, but it is merely an expedient matter. We already let him know in a paper that his amendments seemed interesting to us; what happens is that it would have been necessary for that to have been serious, that there would have been, in the end... And that we would have dealt with the matter with guarantees and legal certainty, which has not happened in this matter. I tend to follow a maxim that says, "Whoever says what he shouldn't, listens what he doesn't want." And I have to say that since it has been said that the Socialist Party is mocking the workers, I must answer that it seems to me much more mocking to collect 110,000 signatures for a popular legislative initiative on which we have no competence. That does sound like a mockery to me. Because I have previously asked a rhetorical question – i.e. of those who are not expected to answer – but I do have a rather clear view of what that is. Because it would take a lot less signatures for a popular legislative initiative, but nothing less than 110,000 have been collected. But on contents that we cannot enter, on the pretext of absolute, total and other invalidity. But of course, that just like you, Mrs Arrondo, serves you. You, too, need an initiative that we could have agreed, which would not have come out arithmetically, on the other hand. But I must say: We are not a left of pasalles or kalejiras. We want to do things with a sense of responsibility and how far we can get with the different agreements and with the different possibilities. You're talking about subrogation. But you can't impose subrogation! I don't know how to say it. Subrogation, if it arises by law, as a result of the Statute of Business Succession Workers, is not necessary to appear in any specification, because it arises ex lege. And if it is conventional, that is, by way of a convention, there has to be a convention. What the legislator cannot do is impose conditions that are part of collective bargaining. What is happening is that, of course, there is an intention here that there should be such a replacement, because those who have to hold that dialogue in collective bargaining have abdicated all of this. They have abdicated all this or, more abundantly, we enter into the contradiction – at least for us it is – when it says: "Once the reform has been analysed, ELA has clearly explained over and over again that the most effective field, or rather the only effective one to deal with labour reform, is the company agreements". Holy shit. What are we left with? Sectoral collective agreements, company agreements... Well, they have to be satisfied, because the preference in its applicability of the enterprise pact is set out in 84.2 of the Workers' Statute. Then there can be no objection, all happy. Rajoy's labour reform coincides with the demands of this plant and, in addition, with what has been included in the Workers' Statute. What am I telling you, prove it, what is it? That this has been discussed before in the Navarro Parliament. But the Navarro Parliament has exclusive competence in this matter. And yet, do you know what happened to the popular legislative initiative that was presented there? All articles have been deleted. Everyone, no exception. And although I have not had access to them, the legal reports, both from the Government of Navarre and Parliament, come on, must say true pearls about what the content was. And we, despite all this presentation, have made an effort to deal with the issue, because it seems important to us, and we have stated it repeatedly, and it seemed important to us that at the end of all this there was at least something. That we do not know whether it will have any route, any feasibility, because of the doubts I expressed in the first intervention. But at least, as I say, there is a text which states that – Mr Aldaiturriaga has already explained in more detail – the obligation to present the tenderers with the agreement they are going to apply. But we are not the ones who have to say today and here, urbi et orbe, what are those of preferential application, because that is part of the labour legislation, on which we have no decision-making capacity. More stuff. You say this or nothing. No, if I tell you, for those who are dissatisfied, a whole range of possibilities is opened up with the implementation of the recruitment directives, which, of course, constitute a very important change in the culture of recruitment. They are very extensive directives which, of course, go beyond this; but as far as the inclusion of social clauses or the submission to agreements is concerned, the contracting authorities, which are now called, are going to be able to establish them. Because you do not forget, Mrs Arrondo, that this, in any case, is a standard of device character; it is not imperative. In other words, the hiring tables may or may not include social clauses and they will see what type they are, if they have any connection with the contract in question. So, what I have to say is that this has served as a score to set up a whole titirimundi, of course, but we did not really pursue the end that is being proclaimed, which is to see how far the Administration, the public authorities, can go, so that in public procurement you can correct all those things that you say and that we share. Of course I do! But not posing impossible or things that are known to be quiet from the beginning. We don't play that. What we have done has been to take the witness to the debate, which seems to us to be an important debate, and to bring it to the best term we have thought appropriate. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u114	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Arrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u115	Today, too, it's curious. Sometimes, even to-day, you say that this legislature has no power to regulate it, but that it is not independent to regulate it; and sometimes that we must obey what the form of labour has to do, that we cannot do anything, or that the contract of labour and subtrogation is only a private circle of business relations. You use, according to what you are interested at the moment, different criteria, all of which, in order to penetrate into a vacuum, opinions, or ratings. Or more than: it seems that all this is so, and cannot be moved. And we don't agree, we believe we have power. And, in any case, that we need the power to answer the wants of the people, that we may decide to be in our power. Because when we defend self-preservation, we're talking about this. We want power to determine all this, and in short, as in this case, to regulate, protect, and defend the rights of the workers. That's what we're talking about. And power is not an ethereal thing; for, as I have said before, above all that has been said, there are persons. And you speak of laws, rules, resources, as if they fell out of the fog, se, from which they come, and we are here, and we can only do this because they will not allow us to do the other, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. And I don't share that, we don't share it at all. Laws and rules are made in the legislature, and institutions do it. It is generally for the good of the powerful, and not for the protection of the workers, or for the guarantee of their rights. And this is one of those cases. Here you speak to us the law from Madrid, we have no power, the form of work. You talk to us on that level, it sounds like someone else, I don't know who. No, no, we also care to protect the people who live here, to protect the workers, and that's what we're here for, if the legislature doesn't do it for what? I'd ask Mr. EAJ, Mr. Altaga, and the Social Party, if you think it's a fair request. What is proposed, that we have the power to forget, that we have forgotten, that we know not what, the form of labour, that which is proposed, is just? Public services are protected by workers working in public contracts? A worthy condition of labor? Don't do stupid things that are now? Liducing at a good price, taking it at a fair price? All that, do you think it's good? Is that necessary? Because that's what should be explained first. Having thus explained, we should presently see what we can do to enable the rest of the legislature, and where our agreements are. You say, Mr. Ichaso, from Navarre. At Navarre all sides, at least, came to this point, and there was a point of whaleney. What do you mean, he's been given away? Who cares? I don't even know whose responsibility falls from heaven. He'll have a full name. But the problem is not with resource, it's not in the laws. It's what we're prepared for. And here it is manifest how far ye are ready, and what ye are willing to do, and what ye are not ready to do. I can't understand you, Mr. Ichaso, who say that politics ought to be done from people's needs, that you accuse us of getting lost in identity issues, because today, here and on this subject, you're going to repeat again to us the fact that you're turning your back to the working workers working through the public contractors, and you're helping theJeltizer Party go along that path and nothing else. Time's moving, I can see what's coming out of here. What is clear is also what we defend and what every one defends, what is the priority of each of us, and of which we shall no doubt proceed. I don't know if he's coming from Europe now I don't know what or what we do here. But we'll have to keep working to keep these situations from happening. In the mean time, of course, we do not protect the law which enables us to continue to apply the conditions of public contracts to those of the low and predestinative condition of labor. This is one of these.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mr. Altaga, the Eubertarian, representative of the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u117	Thank you, ma'am. A number of issues that have been referred to here in the debate. On job insecurity and job production, employment stability is not a matter of public procurement, but is a matter of employment. And this serious problem of precariousness, such as productivity in our companies, Mrs Arrondo, is serious issues that are not resolved through public procurement. The promoters of the ILP, as those who support it, must know and know that there are rules of play to be accepted. Reversing labour reform from public procurement is not possible and less so from this Parliament, you know very well. To promote issues that are known to be impossible to achieve is to deceive citizens and, in this case, the 110,000 signatories of the initiative. Promising what is known to be unfulfilled is simply populism. To seek to change the Workers' Statute directly in this Parliament is doomed to failure. And the best way to load up the institutions, surely, is to discredit them, Mrs Arrondo, and, in that sense, some, consciously or unconsciously, are working for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u118	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u119	We are talking about protecting employment in Euskadi and that is fine with us. What does not seem so good to us is that the possibility of hiring people whose employment relationships are governed by other agreements is limited. Moreover, to companies of the Autonomous Community itself: workers of Arab companies could not compete with the workers of Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa with your proposal. With the initial ILP it is impeded that these companies can compete for works in another territory. Not to mention the workers who do not have contract coverage, who are approximately 70% of the workers in Euskadi or even more those who do not have employment. In that regard, Mrs Arrondo, what would we like most, in response to the question you have asked us, that in Euskadi we could draw up a law to determine the minimum wage to be paid to construction workers, for example, but that is not the case. On awards, the Government awards the most advantageous offer based on tripod between price, time and quality of work and the Administration is asked to be effective in the management of public resources. It would not be legal, nor politically acceptable, for the Administration to pay for a work or service and to obtain it for a lower price. If I did, it would be the subject of social criticism, and rightly so in our judgment. The price is fixed in the specifications and operates as a maximum ceiling. There are no auctions, Mrs Arrondo, up. They are usually at or below the type, therefore, provided that the obligation of good management of public resources is required to be low. In this way, public resources are released that can be allocated to other social objectives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u120	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u121	jaunak: For the calculation of prices are used, as I say, the specifications. The usual prices on the market are taken into account, both in the labour costs that the government uses the collective agreement of the territory where the work is to be executed and the rest on the market prices. Again and again we have heard here about political voluntarism, and most of the time, Mrs Arrondo, it is, in our view, a trifle for the government to evade the observance of the law. But in politics, as in life in general, the first thing is to understand the problems, and voluntarism what it does is to primacy the will over understanding. When I was young I studied St. Augustine but I felt closer to Descartes who said that "will is the cause of both practical and cognitive error." Therefore, problems cannot be solved if they are not known and if we are not able to delimit them. And finally, with regard to representativeness or legitimacy, the promoters of the ILP emphasize the 110,000 signatures obtained and accuse us of ninging them, that they are signatures thrown into the trash. And on this we must express our utmost respect for the signatories, who have served precisely to illuminate this initiative that we are submitting to this House today. But just as we respect the signatories, we demand equal respect for the 383,565 voters of our party, represented here by our parliamentary group, who are 363,565 people who outnumber the signatories of the initiative by more than three to one, and if we add the 211,000 of the Socialist Party, the proportion rises from six to one. But there is also another question that is of principle: that the laws are not passed in the tents mounted on the streets and squares of our peoples, are adopted in this Parliament. And the promoters have the opportunity, if they wish, to stand for the next elections of this Parliament, incorporate it into their electoral agenda, implement it and report to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u122	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Now that the discussion's over, we'll start the vote. The vote is put in Misto-UPyD 14 and 15 corrections made on article 4. We can vote... [[Berber]] Please, get out! Please, get out! Security! Please, get out! We'll continue the vote. It's on the vote for the EH Collect Group 4th. Correction, article four. We can vote. Again, again. It's on the vote for the Fourth Collecting Group, the 4th article. We vote again, okay? We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; counters, 53; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u123	So he didn't accept it. Next, we'll vote for the fourth article of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 53; contraries; 21; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u124	So it's accepted. Next, we vote for the 16th Amendment of the Misto-UPyD team, 4 Bis to create a new article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 1; contraries, 63; white, 0; abstaines, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u125	So he didn't accept it. It's on the vote for the Misto-UPyD team 17th, 5. the article was made. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 1; contraries, 63; white, 0; abstaines, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u126	So he didn't accept it. The 5th, 6 and 7 Amendments of the EH Collecting Group are put to vote. made up of the article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; counters, 53; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u127	So they didn't accept it. 5th of Judgement. we'll vote for the article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 53; contraries; 21; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u128	So it's accepted. They vote together for the 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the EH team to create new articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; counters, 53; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u129	So they didn't accept it. Next, the 12th Amendment of the EH Collectation, made by Article 6. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; counters, 53; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u130	So they didn't accept it. It goes to vote by Misto-UPyD team 18th, article 6. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 1; contraries, 63; white, 0; abstaines, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u131	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for Article 6. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 53; contraries; 21; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u132	So it's accepted. Next they vote for Misto, the 19 and 20 of theUPD team, to produce two additional regulations: the first and the second. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u133	So they didn't accept it. The Articles of Judgment, that have no Right, are agreed together; that is to say, 1, 2,3, and 7, transient, and final regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 53; contraries; 21; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u134	So they're accepted. The 13th Amendment of the Misto-UPyD team, says he, to the explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 1; contraries, 63; white, 0; abstaines, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u135	So he didn't accept it. The corrections made by the EH Collect Group 1, 2, and 3. are placed at the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; counters, 53; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u136	So they didn't accept it. The explanation and the name of the law go to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 53; contraries; 21; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u137	They're approved. And therefore certain Klausula, the Law of the Insecration of the Social Contract, is admitted. Next up is a vote description. Mrs. Llanos, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Our group voted in favour of this proposal. We have said this since the discussion of the consideration and, although we did not object to that consideration, we did not object, precisely, to the origin it had, even though we already had many doubts about the legality of the content of it at that time. As I said, we did it as a respect for the signatures for which it was supported, although there have been other initiatives that have also come to this House backed by a lot of signatures and that, however, have not seen the light; they were not even taken into consideration. And, of course, it must be said that the proponents of those signatures, which, as I say, what they were proposing could not even be the subject of debate, were much more respectful than what we have seen here today. And we take it into consideration in two respects. One, because it came from the will of the people, from a number of signatures, and also because it is true that the content of it, the content that seemed to have that initiative, is a content on which this group has always agreed. We have always been in favour of the introduction of social clauses in public procurement, we have always considered that public procurement can be an instrument at the service of the public authorities for the fulfilment of their aims, their public policies and, of course, also to ensure an improvement in working conditions, a technique at the service of, as I say, achieving social, environmental, research and job improvement objectives. These criteria have been accepted and promoted, not only by the Community institutions through numerous directives, as has been said here today, but also by our state and autonomous legislation, which has provided for the introduction into public procurement of social considerations to encourage, for example, the inclusion of persons at risk or social exclusion, and also to ensure the introduction of clauses to ensure compliance with working conditions in public sector contracting companies. In this regard, at European level, the European Parliament's 2014 Directive on public procurement, which consisted of considerable progress in this area of social clauses, casting out existing doubts. According to these directives, inter alia, contracts reserved for insertion companies are extended, an aspect in which our legislation has gone beyond the provisions of Law 31/2015, as we have seen in committee this week, and that directive also in its Articles 18 and in recitals 37 and 39 and 105 provided this legal guarantee by requiring compliance with collective agreements and guaranteeing minimum labour and wages, both in public procurement and subcontracting. And not just in Community legislation. The consolidated text of the Public Contracts Act approved by the Royal Legislative Decree 3/2011 also contains this aspect, although it is said that the directive has not been transposed, much of that content is contained precisely in that consolidated text. But as has been said, the original initiative did not have the objective of introducing social clauses in the procurement, among other things because that was already allowed or that could already be done through, as I say, the regulation we have. What was intended with it was nothing but to leave the existing labour legislation worthless, to leave the labour reform worthless, to skip a regulation approved by the Congress of Deputies and to do so in a Chamber, in this Parliament, which has no competence to do so. In addition, that proposal had already had an unfavourable report from the Basque Government and was appealed by the Arbitral Commission, by the Bizkaia District Council. That's why, as they said, our group put a lot of doubt at that time. We have not tabled any amendments, because we considered, as I say, that much of what is contained in this text that has finally seen the light, can be achieved without the need for the text to exist. It is true that neither can we disagree with the text as it has meant, because, it is true, it is a possibleist text, it is a text that does develop possibilities that are already contained in the law. That is why, for those reasons and because, as I say, we have always agreed, not with what the initiative to bring this text into being, but with what really is the introduction of social clauses in recruitment, is why we voted in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u139	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Forth point on the theme list: "To discuss the Euberts of one first and second reading procedures, to change the decree of the law made by the EH and Basque Socialists by the legislature, by the Eulegal Autonomy Administration of the Public and Public Prices. Discipline and final resolution. In accordance with the Committee of the Borrowers on March 15th, 2016, this initiative will be transmitted by a single examination at the full meeting. If it's a side and a counter turn here. On the side, who will join you? Not you guys. You don't, either. Nobody? Even on the side shift? UPyD, also on the side shift? No. Eta zuek inork ez? Explanation of vote? Ez on the hartuko side. At the time, we'll start. Mr. Ichaso is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u140	Thank you, President, but I'm going to be brief, no, laconic. In principle it is the first debate we have about the development of the Housing Act, which, as is known, was adopted in this House last year at the impulse of the socialists and with the competition, of course, of Union, Progress and Democracy and of Euskal Herria Bildu. Indeed, it is a law that needs regulatory developments, and one of the first issues in which it has also found an issue to be resolved is precisely the creation of different registers, which according to the Euskadi Fees Act would effectively tax all actions that have a registrable nature. And, therefore, what it is about is to remove these fees in these records: public protection registry, housing applicants, technical inspection registry... There are several records. Therefore, what is at stake is not to tax all these compulsory registration acts and, therefore, we are naturally in favour of the elimination of these rates and we are pleased that there is sufficient agreement for this to succeed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u141	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Faultaga, Eubertarians represent the group. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u142	Thank you, ma'am. I'll do the subject very briefly. Today we presented the Decree of 1/2007 Laws, changing the rate of the Euscal Autonomical Administration, and the text of Public Prices. And besides, we propose to transfer the initiative directly by one reading process. And we do so, because, first of all, the text, as you all know, is very brief and simple, as is apparent from the reading of the proposed initiative that you have in your hands. Secondly, it contains a rapid response from Parliament to resolve an imminent problem arising from the applicability of the Housing Act, such as the charging of fees for registration in the numerous public registers to those groups who need to satisfy their right to housing. Thirdly, because there has been no difficulty among the political groups in reaching or agreeing to their approval. Although formally this one-reading procedure implies the impossibility of tabling and discussing amendments, and therefore a restriction on the exercise of the right of participation by all groups, in this case, we believe that there has been no such restriction because, prior to its formulation, we have negotiated a text among all political groups and a total consensus has been reached. All that remains for us is to thank all the political groups for their support in the handling, presentation and approval of this initiative by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u143	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u144	Madam President, from the seat. Simply to say that, in fact, we knew the text even before it was presented. We have given our assent to it. Therefore, we fully agree with the procedure chosen, and also with the content of it, because it is true that our group was not in favour of the Housing Act, we had many doubts about its legal certainty, as these doubts have been confirmed later. But it is true that with one of the points, such as the creation of the registers, we did agree, and in accordance with Legislative Decree 1/2007, on Fees Law, what we come to is to eliminate those fees because we do not consider them a receipt. We shall therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u145	Thank you, Miss Llanos. We'll vote for the bill. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u146	In one word, therefore, the law of changing the Decree of the Basque Autonomy Administration, and a text of the Public Prices, which admits of a text of the Law of Public Price, is accepted. So I interrupt the entire meeting until 15:45. It was two and eleven in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-six.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u147	Good afternoon. Five point in theme list: "A full correction to the bill of law given to the savings and bank-fundations of the Euscal Autonomia Er member. The discussion and the vote. "Mingorn has the word to introduce the bill." Mr. Gashhousevary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, Congressmen. I'm here to introduce you to the law of savings and banks. First, we must consider what our jurisdictions are in the field of savings and banks. By following the line of the general financial legislation, on the one hand we have had our traditional jurisdictions in the boxes, and we use our jurisdiction on this billing project for the development of the regulator of credit and bank-power. This is the other area, which we use in this bill of legislation. What are the targets of the bill? Two. On the one hand, to update the Euscal law of savings, there is a general legislation in the state about boxes, and what it demands is that those laws which are proper should be updated in the autonomous communities, conform to the regulation which the general financial laws of the coffers are called, we must bring them into our own sphere, but make these adaptations. The 11/2012 Law, the Act of Euscal Kuche, was admitted with great consent in the former Law; and what we do in the first place, is, that in our bill of law, the changes which ought to be respected from the general legislation of the state, that is to say, the general law of the Common-wealth; In this respect, we respect the great agreement of this Chamber in the sphere of savings, but adapting it to the changes which are said in the financial area by the general legislation. And here's an important change: How do we understand savings within our limits? These savings have other nature, other peculiarities, and properties in the general financial law. In the first place, you must be guided to get the savings and to provide financial and investment services. But who? Not everyone, but small-time customers and small-time corporations. That is to say, his peculiarity as an organization directed to the general market is now reduced by the general financial laws. Then they'd go to small business and small business. On the other hand, the boxes cannot use their jurisdictions over the land of the autonomy. As a exception, to ten provinces which are confined to the frontiers, they can act there, but round a autonomous community, to the ten provinces which are bordering on it. That's the second thing. Third, their solid assets can't be above 10,000 million. And the fourth, within their sphere, in this circle of autonomical territory, cannot be above the 35th of the depositary markets. If this were to happen, it would have to become a savings-box, and have to be done through a financial bank by an organization of credit. This change then is important, which is said by the general legislation of the state. The character of the savings, and those characteristic of content, are, then, changed in this sense. These four changes are important in its contents. We accept that, respect it, and the 11/2012 Law which was in this Chamber, we bring that back. All the rest, in this respect, are what we make adaptations about the organ of the government: the general assembly, the administration committee, the social control committee. The new rule of this proceeding must also be drawn, as the general financial law says. And the rest of the things that are regulated, we maintain what the law of 11/2012 says, because we think it was highly agreed with the law and has its value. But it is certain that at this moment there is no saving-box, and the general legislation, which is said by the general financial legislation, is that before the period of 2014 the savings were established, they must be made to be bank-fundation by this legislation. And that's what happened. There are no savings in our case right now, but there are bank raids. The second object of the law is to regulate this area, to regulate the division of banks. Some institutions are bank-fudations which contain these peculiarities: One, they have a social goal, that is, they have a social goal. Two, their industry is directed to manage the social world. Three, whether in a bank or in a financial institution, must be managed in a healthy and proper manner. Then they have two duties. On the one hand, management the social activity, and on the other, in a financial institution, for instance, in a bank, managing the proper and healthy share they have. Those are the targets of a banking operation. And what are bank raids? In our case, and in the case of the majority, it is not that these claims have sprung up from society, but, as said the general legislation of the state, to convert the savings into banks and to make their finances by a bank. Then, in our case, three bank raids are made that way. And there are other institutions which have another third peculiarity, and which must be held in a financial institution, if it's more than 10%, or lower than 10%, to have a right to appoint a administrator in the administration committee of that bank. Then if there's a foundation like that, it'll have that right. If he has no such jurisdiction, that is to say, less than 10%, or less than 10%, and he has no right to appoint administrators, then it would be an ordinary foundation. It may be that a foundation is common to them, and that they have a share in a financial institution, but as an exception they do not fulfil them both. In this sense the banking process has these two ends: and that it is necessary, on the other hand, to make a reasonable, healthy, and proper management of the bank. What the law does is to develop in our own sphere what the general laws of the state are saying. I mean, use our own competition. This is the Chamber and you, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, you must decide where we need a regulation between us. And then I'll say why it's important to have a rule here. What we do then is the great forms of general legislation, we respect them from all that is done, but we develop the rules of the organ of government or of the patrician; we place in them impassibility, abilities, incompatibility, people who are to be shared in these organs. We also place certain limits in the line of incompatibility, for how many years there must be persons appointed as representatives or patronos. That's important, too, and we use our jurisdiction to develop it. And a good banking operation has two compounds. On the one hand, he has to perform an act of society, and, on the other, a healthy management of his own property for the members of the bank. In the course of the bank property, he has the share of a financial institution. When it comes to important, if it's more than 10, it has a connection with the Spanish bank. Why, because he has an important property in a financial institution. But on the other hand, in social action, that organization, as traditionally as it has been, has taken away so much protection under this Chamber, by Red Mitch. And this is the third sphere, which we fill here: regulate our own jurisdictions, and in the law of our euscals the field of social action is well developed, determined, and settled. The region of social action, both of them, of euskal boxes, and of banks. The general legislation of the state does not regulate this circle of social actions, and we offer it to the Chamber, to conclude this period of the month that they remain, to accept the law, that it is important that the field of social action should be regulated. What kind of history and creation the banking process carries from the savings box. And the savings come from the popular institutions, from the municipal towns, and from the forum-rolls. And that, we think it's important to have a standard of social action in the banking operation. What is not a rule at this moment, but that we do not understand that a banking operation must work as a common foundation. And we, funk, we put up our own project to make sure that's what we're doing. With what philosophy, what plan? It's traditionally the role of social action in bank raids. It's been a healthy management, driven into town to be tied up and connected with my desire to join you in this parliamentor with his social services. I mean, tied up. In the end, we must consider that the banks and their owners have two important advantages. One, all their expenses, those which are directed to the action of society, are held by the prosecutors. What it requires is, that the legislative, or executive power, ought also to follow it. All his expenses, which have been directed to social action, are in his yearly economic accounts as a tax tax-preservative. We took a great step in our law; This remains in the role of his tax-collector, as a tax-collector. And two, his partner's bank has that situation too. The amount of profits which the bank directs, which are directed to social action, is also the prosecutor of the bank's yearly business. This shows what philosophy lies behind it. And there are some institutions, which are driven from the public power, and there are some peculiarities in their economics, and we have given those D.P.O.s on this paper of their taxation. And we also believe that, traditionally in our parliament, and as it was done in our autonomical and autonomous land, it must have a proper rule. What general legislation has no rule, otherwise it is a rule to make laws which are called the usual foundation. But we're not in front of a regular foundation. Here we are created by an organization called by general legislation, from the Euscalum created from our own country. And that's what we've been doing. He who has had the traditional paper in social action, the Chambers or the MUTY in mind, that he is healthy management and, in order to accept his social action, how the bankings direct their accounts to social action, and the payment of the year. For the action of society may be performed in different ways: directly, by the bank raid or by the bank bombing, by means of a separate organization or by a usual foundation of the bank. But what we plan is, as is said traditionally, everything is social action, whether we act directly or indirectly. That's what we do, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature. In three areas. Update, and summarize the adaptation of the Euskal knife legislation and update to the last four years of change. Two, develop our jurisdictions on the banks. And three, the want in respect of social action, which is not regulated by the study of banks, is regulated. As it has been traditionally in our parliament, and as we have thus regulated in the area of the boxes. Then we make a special title to the two organizations, if there's a box or a bank operation, but there'll be a rule, as we've always had. Now it remains in your hands, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, that this Chamber should be employed here and there at the end of June through parliamentary groups, and that the legislation should be concluded as accepted this year. Thank you. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u149	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. The representative of the EH Collectors has the word in order to present his full correction. Mr. Isas, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u150	Congressmans, Mrs. President, Mr. President, chief officers. Mr. Gazgagamary has shown us all right when they're all at hand, for instance, at a yard in the rights, just like when you're in the middle of a yard, you know, when you're in the mood. The Basque Country has put a full claim to the bill of making a legal bill of law in the Er-American Eunomy introduced by New York. And we'll explain why. This project of laws does not respond to the financial obligations of the Abarba, Biscay, and Gipuzian population, the financial duties of the public and other public institutions; this bill does not guarantee that it would maintain the social activity which was derived from the sources, and still more to the level of the social law, the bill of law tends to equalize the former character of the original prejudices with the usual character of the banking of the bank, which does not permit the financial control and even more acutely regulate the project in order to prevent them from working in the public control of the public. This project of laws, instead of using and improving the exclusive jurisdictions which are acknowledged to the legislative Autonomy, regulates and regulates the state of dependence; this project of legislation does not respond to the wants of the production system in the Basque Country, especially to innovation, in the order of the development of society of knowledge. This project of laws does not guarantee that the financial institutions will tend to moral principles, to protect the interests and rights of the customer, and to prevent the unjust interruptions which have hitherto happened. This project of laws has no object to promote the equality of women and men; it does not guarantee the principle of equality; it does not guarantee that the presence of women and men, separated according to sex, is balanced. This bill of law does not guarantee that it regulates the transparency of financial institutions. For example, there is no data in the project about the benefits of each bank operation. This project of laws does not allow the normalization of the Basque; for it does not acknowledge that there exists an asymmetry among languages, for it does not determine which are the necessities and instruments of ordinaryization. This bill of law does not seek cohesion between the country of the Basque Country and the territories. The bill of law does not contain any new powers, it does not allow it to obtain greater jurisdictions. The savings of the Arab, Biscay, and Gipure, even Navarre, from their origin, as the chief physician has mentioned before, have shown social character: To help the small savings, to help the profits to social business, to help the municipalities and the farms finance. It's been a local and indispensable tool for the local and social development of the townships and countries. During the last ten years, the Spanish bank institutions have been driven by private financial institutions and by bank-oligolipolis. They had ceased to control the activity of the savings, and the caudiation of the speculative activities on hygiene, which enabled them to establish the lack of control over loans, and to spread it out of the natural area of the boxes. That's all that's known. When the financial crisis broke out, the boxes were either entire or partially privatized, and they were left in the hands of a few bank taxes. It is true, on the other hand, that the answer given by the European Union to this wretched financial management was very little, as has been remarked, to the very essence of the problem which was not to be offered by the aid of payment. Thus the Memorandum urged the process of privatization, and did not force it. Meanwhile, in France, Germany, and Holland, to mention some cases, savings and credit-bags remain the principal support of the savings, which are more than 50 percent of the whole savings. This is exactly the same situation as in the Basque Country where we were a few years ago. The kingdom of Spain yielded to the interests of the great banks, and swept away the savings. The end of the long course of savings requires more than one explanation. To say that by a financial crisis, and by the law, it is a cheap excuse. That's not a real reason. It's a hell of a reason that the political forces that protect it improve the financial model of the banks. I don't want the public and social control over financial institutions. That's what we're expecting from you. Luckily, it wasn't always like that. 2004. In the year of Euskadicus, the New Politic State. In this document, in article 49, absolute financial jurisdictions were demanded for the member Autonomy. It was as follows: "Sectorial political policies of the American and finances. These public policies will be formed, executed, and maintained by the Basque institutions of the legislature, and able to execute them in the following matters and areas." And there are others on the list: Credit, banking and insurance organization and credit settlements and savings. Those were the other times. But, above all, there was another view, and there was the other attitude and will to use the power as much as possible. Like I said, it's all over. Thus, the bill proposed by the Spanish Government in 2010 within the process of bankership and privatization, which is only one step more. Upon the Decree of the 11/20 Laws here mentioned, they gathered together the three savings of Araba, Biscai, and Gipuzia, and resolved to create the Arks. In June 2011 three savings supported by Araba, Bisca, and Gipu, to prevent the privatisation of the integration contract, and to guarantee the public and social control, the assembly of the three savings accepted the reorganization of the contract of integration. By this agreement, as an example, the regulators, according to their rules, should be allowed to receive any capital increase or income set up, the assembly of the three savings ought to accept it with a vast majority. The last word remained in the hands of the assembly of savings which represented social control and the public. The law of the legislatures was a step back by 11/2012, because the other began to limit the representation of other public institutions. In any case, with limited representation, there were still options for public and social control. In December 2013, the Spanish Congress voted the 26/2013 law on the Kuchei and the Bank Fundation with PPren and Jaltza's votes. This law had hitherto been modified and strengthened by a figure of legislation and bank-fundation in the Spanish State. The appeals of the law themselves indicated that the object was to save the same Spanish finance system, especially by encouraging the disappearance of the savings. According to the law, all the savings of the state were set on the way to disappear, either by a specific condition and article sufficient to destroy the public and social nature of the savings, or to be of a very small size, and by a historical attachment to their lands and to their social structures. In this way the representation of the creating entities, as well as of the deputations of the townships of the lands, was reduced or abolished. At ten o'clock the general assemblies, which have been the instrument for the public and social control of our savings, were dissolved, and produced the pattern of the patrician of 15 out of public control and out of social society: banking. On this Lego they destroyed the chests of Araba, Biscair, and Gipuz, and founded three bank counts. In the direction of these, as has been said, they organized three patricians which have no need of explanation in the institutions and in the presence of society. The bank operation being the stockist of the Arkbank, the future of the financial club of the Arkbanks and the direction of the social action of the three entities was given to 45 people who will not have any public control. In order to adapt all the autonomys of the State to the new law, which was previously mentioned by the chief physician of the department, the law of 26/2013 on the Foundation; But it wasn't the chance to make use of it, so it was made according to the law of 26/2013 in the Spanish State of Spain, about three savings of Arabeba, Bizui, and Gipuzicus. The 10 articles of the American State of Ernomy, economic work, and acquired savings, even if he acknowledges the right of regulating and regulating them, even to the Er member of Autonomy, he has given up this right, and he bends to the Spanish law. The financial system in view of the economy of a people and the function and care and care which it may have to promote and protect its sociative model, is to renounce that jurisdiction and duty, which seems to us to be political carelessness, and, in this case, institutional. In any case, if the right to decide political, social, or economic activities for a country or community is important, yet, in the state of crisis in which we live, we do not wish to adopt the proper decisions in the direction of our own financial system, we repeat, it is a great institutional carelessness. The 10 articles of the former state of Common-wealth, which are economicall, and precluded, confessing the right of regulating and regulating them, may serve to defend them, and, if need be, to proclaim them where they please, and to set out the initiative, or legal measure of Common-wealth, which often defends so many other men. The bill of law which has just been introduced to you at the end of the Spanish State, supports the law of 26/2013 on the Bank Foundation, as has been well explained by Mr. Gitzgagary, without any alteration in it. In the case of the savings, the bill of law establishes the strict conditions which are to be performed by the savings, and consequently the consideration of the participation in a country area and in a financial capacity is nothing but the mere application of the law of 26/2013. If this were small, looking at the new savings which may be produced in the bill of law, the intervention of public institutions is entirely restricted, and although the present 11/2012-as well as the introduction of public institutions to 40%, the bill reduces to 25%. Consequently, as we are constantly repeating, we are faced with another step in the process of ending public and social control in the financial system. The bill of laws introduced by M. M.M., according to the law of 26/2013, draws the saving-box in a precise manner the process of becoming a bank-fundation, and limits the progress which may be made in the opposite direction to a mere mention. In the bill of law, every saving-box, which becomes a bank-fund, automatically loses its public and social character, is destroyed by the general assembly of public representations and social administrations, and, as has been said before, a patronate composed of no public or social representation. According to the bill here proposed, the representatives of clients, founders of founders, of founders of lands, of workers, and of the social agents of the country, will not form beforehand patricians. In accordance with the bill of law, either act as a banking operation or return as a usual foundation, the license of the bank will be prevented. This, of course, is completely removed from the financial funded by the usual banking or establishment, which was previously related to direct savings, completely losing the social function of savings. On the other hand, we are aware that the bill of law can collide with the law 4/2015 for the equality of women and men, because the amount of difference of the genus received is insufficient, and the masculine language itself is very apparent. Now there is a chance that the savings of eupscals cut off the privatization of the coalition, renounce the activity of the bank and become the usual foundation. This would be an opportunity to guarantee the public and social control of the financial administration of the Arkbanks, and to use it as a means of resisting the state of crisis we live in. That's why the Basque Country is united by several unions, political agents, and social requests. We believe that we must recover the public financial system (proprietary control) from the crisis. One. The public property needs armor. We must leave the inheritance of the institutions which came from the savings to the privatization of them. Two. The ends of the first savings must be grafted into the present banking; To give priority to company assistance, especially as has been mentioned, the little ones (the small and the average companies) -ThreeethôT, microves, autonomies, co-operatives... ), the local corporation, the social activity, the entire ethical banking (simple missions, compensation, social rent, etc.) For this purpose, in each institution, it would be necessary to create a sub-relation of the community, and especially of the members of the community, in order to employ the function of taxation and social character. Three. Completing bank settlements, including banks that depend on or have been nationalized. Every time the elections are made in the countries where these institutions are founded, the members of the patricians and administrative councils will be re-established, and the following accounts should be taken notice of: These people should have a proper training and an extensive knowledge of the bank action or economic activities. These persons ought to be chosen in the direct proportion of votes from the origin of the institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u151	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u152	Thank you. A number of members in the Autonomia member, between 10%, should be offered an option to choose between client and worker representatives. These men ought to be the same as the incompatibility of the selected ones, and at the beginning of the term they ought to acknowledge rents and fortunes. These persons, at last, ought to attend to the creative institutions, and to manage their activity. The assemblies of the stockholders of each bank should be composed of all the patricians in their foundations, in order to maintain the same proportion. The social institutions of users, workers, and the social institutions of their respective countries ought to be given means of participation and control. To the people it is necessary that the means of obtaining information of financial institutions should be given to them, according to the right of information which the European Council acknowledges to the users of 205. Four. To explain the responsibilities of the Spanish bank, examining the events of the past ten years, and decapitated the cause of the crisis by the cause of obscure businesses above hygiene. The savings also ruined the members of the administration. The banks of Spain would also require that the banks of the bank should cease to push the banks of the bank-oligologists and fusions, and demand the actual inspection of their actual work. That is to say, to oversee the financial institutions as required, and to work with discretion, and to control them in certain matters, for instance, so as not to place the commissions so large. Five. To make changes of laws necessary, we may have mixed financial systems, public or private, as we have had in the last 150 years. To do this, the previous savings will correct the defects that led to systematic failure, and will not encourage a private bank-oligolipolis. The object which it would require would be to establish a new function of banking, nationalized benches, and co-operative credits as a financial arrangement of socialonomy. For their ends are as follows: to assist the social and national prosperity, to facilitate the financial funding, to promote the petty banking, to answer the needs of families and small and mid-town corporations, to supply the financial needs of the administration, and to support the strategic corporations which will produce the value. Finally, towards the end, and in consequence of all that has been said, we ask to withdraw the bill of law on the savings and the banks of the Esunomia Erdi. Thus, taking advantage of the rights of Autonomy to the Eredi, we are not to follow the law of 26/2013, in the direction of an independent and independent financial system, in the direction of Araba, of Bizkai, and of Gipulia. In this direction we consider it indispensable to receive the contributions of political, institutional, social, union, and economic operators. The Basque Country knows that times have changed and that they speak from our voice, at least this morning we have seen the majority in the street that we are representatives of a social social sopolitical majority, but that all the reasons we have been saying seem to us to be quite sufficient to vote for all the members of the legislature, and, consequently, to return the bill of legal order on the Renaissance and the banks of the banks of the bank, and then, of course, to return the bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u153	Thank you, Mr. Isas. If we turn to the other side, who are to participate? Mr Dammit's word is represented by the Basque Group of Population.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u154	Yes, very briefly, Madam President, to say that we are not in favour of the amendment by EH Bildu, which we already knew were opposed in its day to the merger of the boxes, which we already knew were opposed to the creation of the bank, which we already know were opposed to the banking foundations, but that was all a long time ago. And today we are in contradiction with you, because despite being a representative of the socio-political majority of this country, in short, this Parliament with a socio-political minority, but with its votes against, approved all the previous laws, and the savings banks themselves, with that socio-political minority that they have, also approved becoming foundations. So, I'm not gonna argue with that. If I tell you your contradiction: it puts in front of the Basque Government that renounces to assume I do not know what competences we have, and since you have not done so and since you have not done so, the law of the State, that of 2013, is in force. And I say that it is contradictory for you to say that and to face the fact that it is in force and that it governs that of 2013 and opposes the approval here of one that governs the powers that this House decides we have. And that is simply why, of course, we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u155	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Social party. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u156	President, ladies and gentlemen. We are not before one more law, nor a lesser law, we are before a bill that after the public political institutions, is a law that goes to an institutional sector that complements and that follows, in importance, the social function, the social policy that is done in this country. Therefore, it seems to me good that we are raising all the debates in this regard and that we are trying to be thorough in the area of our competence, in order to try to make the best law, which complements that law of the basis of the State, and which fulfils these functions of normative development that we have through the Statute of Autonomy. Mr Isasi, in his entire amendment, politically justifies this amendment by saying that we are in a scenario of banking, privatization, that there is increasingly less public control of this model of the financial system and that there is an increasing weakness in the social role. And I think that's a reasonable diagnosis, shared by many people, shared by us too, although that leads to a outcome that is absolutely impossible, and you know it. Its amendment in its entirety is an amendment which allows its group to give political testimony, but which knows that it has no viability, because there is no exclusive competence in the Statute of Self-Government to develop this financial, economic and social system, which has, in these respects, the capacity to regulate the State, has the capacity to harmonise, although it has then preserved a capacity for development. Therefore, the outcome of the whole amendment is exaggerated, it is impossible, it is not commensurate with the analysis that it does of what this law can suppose, and therefore, since you ask us to support the whole amendment, I am going to ask you to withdraw the whole amendment and to set yourself on the margins, where we can do politics. Because this bill, which is born of the basic law of the State and which is born of the European recommendations, is certainly a bill that is not definitive, or is a law, or a scenario that is neither definitive, nor irreversible. In fact, not many months ago, in February last year, the European Economic and Social Committee made an important report, after the experience of the crisis and after the experience of all the policy and legislative changes on the financial system, saying that in the biodiversity of the European financial system, savings banks and cooperatives remained essential, still needed because of their proximity, continued to be necessary because of their social role and therefore recommended their maintenance. In fact, today in Europe, as you have also reflected with some data, in Germany, France, in other countries, in Spain itself, the role of this segment of financial, economic and social activity, comes to spray 50% of economic capacity and, in some cases, as in France and Germany, even exceeds it. That is, neither the boxes, nor the foundations in that different form, but with the same meaning, are in disuse, nor are they of fallen layer, nor are they inviable, nor are their disappearance justified on the basis of the excesses that they may have had, the abuses and the mistakes that they may have been and have been made over time. It is clear that in this situation of economic crisis, at this juncture of economic crisis, this circumstance was exploited, mainly by the economic and political power of the banking system, in order to try to load what this means and to deal with what is now in the way of dividends towards social policy out towards the sharing of business. And it is true that the boxes have always been a candy at the door of a school, that everyone has wanted to take hold of it, because that ability to generate wealth, that ability to generate profit, rather than to derive it from the social function, there were many who wanted to catch it to derive it to the mere ability to obtain benefits, in this case private benefits. Therefore, by putting us in situations such as the one I have just pointed out to you in which, as I said, the European Economic and Social Committee, by 153 votes in favour, only 2 against and 10 abstentions, has made a strong defence of the system of credit unions and credit unions, I believe that we are facing a political expectation here, in Spain and in Europe, that it can indeed be changeable and that we must try to make it changeable. What do we have to do? To go as far as we can at the level of amendments and at the level of amendments so that this law can be improved. I can share it with you too, and in fact you have given me the impression that the counselor when he introduced the law has presented it very willingly, with a certain clumsiness, because it is true that in this bill there is no pulse or impulse of self-government, that it can go further and has practically been limited to making a cut and glue, he has tried to make a photocopy of what the approach of the bases of the law of the State means and then, as he has pointed out, he has taken it very much to the level of the protectorate, where the figure is the government and the agencies of the government, and the incompatibilitys and little more. It is true that I have seen little ambition in this bill on the part of the Basque Government, a government that comes out at any time defending the largest quotas of autonomy, sovereignty, independence, the right to decide, and sometimes when it has to develop instruments that are in the field of its political bet, it turns out to be held back. And in this case, I believe that there is an obvious brake on the ambitions of this bill. I therefore invite Mr Isasi, as you provoke this debate, to invite all the other members of this House to see what margins we have in this bill through the amendments so that we can go a little further. In fact, I have been very surprised by your partial amendments, because they have made many amendments to the boxes, which do not make much sense because they do not exist, and yet to the banking foundations, which are actually going to catch the witness and those which share in this other model, in this substitute, with Kutxabank the cash system and the financial system, have done very little. And in my opinion it has also been very timid in that respect of the amendments. But good, but I think that with all those that have been presented by all the groups, we will be able to know. We have proposed going further in the participation of the territories, we have proposed going further in ensuring that the public has control of the bank, that the foundations remain public and that they remain the ones that have control of the bank. We have proposed that our amendments make it possible for employers to have a greater public presence. We have proposed that the social work be better defined, that planned, be more transparent. We have proposed that there should be control and correction, to the extent necessary, of the strategic plans of both the foundations and the bank itself. We have proposed that there should also be strategic plans in the foundations. Anyway, I think there's a field where you can make a lot of progress, where you can develop things. There is not much reference regulation in this regard. There are few laws on banking foundations in Spain after the law of 2013, but, well, some have gone further than this bill goes. I therefore believe that we have margins to work politically through the amendments. And what I'm asking you is that we look at that. What I am asking of this Government with its political influence through the parliamentary group that supports it and what I am asking of all the political groups is that this need to have a law of its own or this need to develop our competences, to adapt, and with the law of bases, the new situation that is created is neither definitive nor irreversible. And there will be time to rethink it, as at the moment in politics, here or at the national level, many things are being reconsidered, while at this time, we are able to develop it with greater aggressiveness, or with a greater position of Basque politics, of self-government, in relation to this segment. In short, it is that the banking foundations remain the owners of the bank, that with strategic plans they obtain, from the dividends of the bank, the capacity of social expenditure for the social work, and that all this has the greatest social content, the greatest social function and the greatest transparency. And this can be amended, it can be amended in the bill. We have done so and we hope that this can be resolved in the next parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u157	Thank you, Mr Price. Mrs. Gorospe, Eubertarians represent the group, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u158	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good evening to all. Good evening, chief of departments! Mr. Isas, you've defended your full correction, what he said, and you've opened it, but if you can stop with a major idea, you've just said it's a step away from public and social control. That, I think, would be the primary idea of what you said. And I'd start with a question: Really, do you really think it's just another step to lose the public bill of law, the savings, the public control of bank operations, and the social character? Do you really think that's true? What questions would be asked, and the lord Damborene would say to him: If this bill of legislation were thrown back, what condition would we be in? When would there be more public controls? Should the bill be thrown back or the bill of the bill thrown forward? It's just that you, you, you, you've not often been able to explain yourself to this moment, you haven't talked about the law plan we've been dealing with, you've talked about the past 10 years, you've been talking about the past 10 years, you've been talking about the different steps you've taken from 2010 here, and, for the time being, you've missed everything you've ever seen in front of everything that we've been doing: savings became bank-fundation, and there has been no litigation, as you predicted; their essence in the value of banks, their attachment to the land, is exactly the same as those of the savings; Ye have failed: there has been no settlement, public control has not been lost, social character is guaranteed, social action is guaranteed. Their values are preserved. And this time, I believe, we have heard a necessary discourse about the savings, about the banks, about the banks of the benches, into the circle of the great discourse made about the Arkbanks, and which you were obliged to insert. Even though you don't really believe it. You've mentioned a lot of things that are out of legal reality. And you know, and Mr Price has told you that many things you've been planning are not possible, can't be now, either from a legal point of view or from a political point of view. It's pure fiction, you're out of reality, and that's a great deal to be swindled by the people. To plan the impossible is to cheat the people. Besides, he is not honest, as you have often been told, we, and the chief physician, have said that, using our jurisdictions and faculties, we take steps to respect and develop the fundamental law. He explained the different parts and he defended them better than anyone else, because he's doing the job, the law project that was introduced to you, and I'm not going to repeat what he said. But you know well that what you plan is not possible. And wherever you govern, and where you have governed, whether you like it or not, you have fulfilled the fundamental legislation; You've placed Spanish banners on balconies where you've filled up the law of stability in your budget. It's not honest and it's not political to ask others to be responsible for their basic legislation. This is demagogue, because it is not possible to deceive the people, because as many things as you plan. In what condition should we remain, I repeat to you the question, answer, if you like, if you really think we should be better off in the direction of the public controls? That the proposals proposed in the bill of law would be better than before? Because that's what you're asking us to do. Let's put this back on the basic legislation. You have mentioned several points in regard to those which you think are not; within the sphere of equality, within the scope of the normalization of the sustain, in transparency. But that's our job, Mr. Isas. A bill of law has been published by M. M. and the Chamber, so that we can review it, and our political responsibility is to plan it in order to improve that bill of correction. If you believe in equality, that there is a scope for improvement in the normalization of resistance, in transparency, or in several other parts, and you have proposed some corrections to improve it, it is in our power to improve it. If, however, the corrections proposed are not really valid, we are in vain. And so much of the corrections you have proposed, is that water will run away and begin the dam-makers. They don't reach 10 out of the 54 corrections that you've put into the circle of bank raids. And we don't have it at all, they're fictions. What we said before, you thought you had promised or foreseen, and you didn't make it up in your speech. And we believe you didn't invent it this time, and that you yourselves know it, but that you have made a speech to make. And at the present moment, he who would do it faithfully in the art of the people ought to work, but from reality, not from excess and from pure fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing by the line of answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Isas, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u160	Thank you, Mrs. President of the Parliament. Times are changing. Monsieur Damboea accuses me, and Mme. Gorospe, too, is too much of the same line. Here discussion is in some measure out of time, because the times are changing, age has changed, and this can be seen in Madrid. It's all on the table. Mr Price has mentioned that it is essentially in harmony with our fundamental plan, our public and social control. In this discussion, Madam Gorospe has published some questions to me, what would become of this law if it were to be abandoned? As yesterday or the day before yesterday, there is here the frame of law, the frame of state, and the copy of the other, nothing would happen. I don't know if our President has gone to call for elections, and then we'll see what importance this law can have in this respect, because he'd soon be suspended. Then, I think, if we were all more honest at this end of the law, there would probably be a new delegation in the next law, and that's why I've talked about it, Monsieur Damborena, when I've spoken of the delegation. We all know that this Parliament will change in the next law, not merely quaantitatively. And what we know of the polls, our positions will probably be in a better position during the next law. But, well, if we leave it apart, without the foundation of ulturology, we have here put our strength in the correction of the whole, because we think that the times have really changed, that at this moment there is a crisis of land in this state, and that much more could be obtained. I know, Mrs. Gorospe, that you are not satisfied with the present frames, but, I believe, the Jeltti Party ought to renew his policy when the gaps open in time of change, so that he can get in at all points, but with this attitude, if we're satisfied with a glass of this cup, we won't get anything. The time to show ambition, not excessive, ambition. Because times have changed. We don't want the financial model of theoffsheore, the financial model of the ocean. A transparency will take a tremendous amount today, and it will. We see it every day in the telescopes, on the media. And democracy, and democracy, which is lost by this law, has been asked another question: Do I really believe that this bill of law gives another step to control political and social... Yes, ma'am. Why? Because he concentrates on this change of bank operations and puts control into the patricians and patrotans, and the patricians are 45 people in the Araban, Biscaia, and Gipuzia, and arbitration is the choice of these people. And Mr Price knows there is this stately law in that long list of changes. And I don't know whether it will end in this State Act, on the 2nd of May, and the elections, but in the next law it will again be a question of one or the other of the Parliaments. Because it's essential. A crisis is said by experts, that is to say, what we're living here, and it's mentioned, by the experts, by the people who are living in Amerion, Sestaon, or Zumarin, and you know better than I, that the crisis is not over, and that it's more difficult to foresee that it's still coming, because of the affairs of China, it's probably more likely that Mr. Gagaterágarian might explain it better, and that it's essential to have tools. We, from our savings to the production of banks and the development of the Arkbanks, have lost the tools of the public administration of the Basque Country, and this law confirms the loss. This is another step, which makes it qualitative, and the state is consolidated. It is not Mario Fernández and Michael Cabieces' time, and because they are not, it must be proposed what can be done again, and it is not planned. There is no reflection. I agree with the description Mr. Prietus has made, and the very low tone which Mr. Gazegacegabary has made, has explained to us from his understanding, and has described to us what the essence of the bill is, and has regulated three compounds, and what it means. I think it's all right for a school, but I was hoping for something more in politics. Me and our team, the Basque Country, they're not satisfied with a financial model like that. And our planning isn't a big one, it's the time to make new efforts in those days, and we're ready for it. Here in the morning, we have accepted the Local Organizational Act. There have been very different attitudes, if necessary, in this bill of laws. But there has not been a chance of negotiation, and here, as has been the case with the City Law, the leading party has been the Jeltistian party in order to bring this law forward through negotiations. And the view of both has been set on the table and has been sought for a medium. But not here. Why? It is not here proposed, Mme. Gorospe, that is. It wasn't a chance. We make a great correction in the whole world, and it seems to us that for the moment one is at the end of the law, two because the times are changing, and three because new possibilities are handed over to us. If not now, tomorrow. And I'm not saying that we have to force the frame of law. I would say yes in my personal position, the moment is as it is done in Catalonia, push it and push it away, and see if we can throw it between us. But in any case, it's not that. It's time that the times have changed and a little bit of view up and out of sight. That's what's happening in society. And we've lost tools to face the crisis, which is why we've introduced forty-five partial corrections. It is true, and I have no complex ones to admit that in many cases it is performed, because we want to put force here. For it seems to us, that if this legislature were to accept the law of savings and banks, it would probably be one of the laws which ought to be rejected in the next law. And from that point of view it seems to me to be a fraud. Because one element is imposed on the coming ones in the next. Why do we have to change? One probably because we'll be able to get more extensive powers at the state crisis. Two, to face this crisis that we are going to have to use, including, necessarily, financial moves, and so on, and in certain cases, we will have to use them so that we can face this crisis. And finally, because I am convinced of the right to decide, we must restore and reorganize these elements to each other. Isn't the time for this law, and the law proposed is poor? I wouldn't say. It is a copy of the Common-wealth, and certainly not voluntary. It's a bad moment, a non-willed moment, and besides it doesn't bring any special contributions along with the law of state. Well, I'd ask you to vote again. Think it over, think it over, Mr Pricee, and in that social view we shall meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u161	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Passing on the second round of answers, Monsieur Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u162	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. I obviously do not have Mr Isasi's python skills and I do not know which majorities or how many groups the next parliamentary term will be in this House, nor when the next parliamentary term will begin. But I can assure you, and I think I will not be wrong, that the basic law is going to remain the same, among other things because it was adopted with more than enough consensus, and that no one proposes to modify it, and that, therefore, I am sure that in the next legislature there will continue to be banking foundations, and we will hope that there will continue to be banking foundations. When I told you before that you're still in the speech five years ago, you've also been reminded before, it's that savings boxes here no longer exist. I don't know if Caixa Pollença intends to open a branch. I doubt it. I also hope that in the next parliamentary term there will also be savings boxes here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u163	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u164	Yes, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Isasi ended his speech by asking us for support for the amendment as a whole, after having had a bitter debate, to say the least, with Mrs Gorospe, when they are actually raising exactly the same thing. The Government is bringing in a bill that is a footnote and a copy of the basic law, and you propose that we downgrade the bill, which leaves us with the basic law, because that regulation is still the one that would operate for Kutxabank and banking foundations. Therefore, the two take us to the same sites. This is an absurd approach. It is true that Mrs Gorospe's testimony is touching with her pragmatism saying it is no longer possible, it is that we have no more competences, when at any time we are released from her group, from her party, a speech, as from hers, that what we can all, that the Basques are what we are. You know. Well, the reality is that we operate in a system that is competitively organized and obviously we have a limitation, and what is raised is that in the field of our competence we go further. For example, I have talked about the composition of the patronage. Patronage can be done with more public presence than the project proposes, with more public presence, and that is a goal at least ours, which we are the only ones who have put forward in the amendments. For example, is Kutxabank's economic remuneration a scandal or not, taking into account the social role of Kutxabank and banking foundations? Today that other minor things are being pursued, it turns out that this is happening without pain or glory. Well, we also say that we stand before Kutxabank's salaries and talk about an equalization with public salaries. For example, is it or is it not a scandal that a social function of Kutxabank and the foundations, which is, through their strategic plans, to sustain the employment that this financial economic activity produces in the country is maintained when it is shrinking? By the way, sometimes with the cooperation of the unions. Well, we can suggest that there are job maintenance obligations in strategic plans. We have tabled that amendment. Can we or cannot we make a planning of social work, so that it does not remain at the dawn of each one, but that the criteria of social work are consensual criteria, are public and sustained policies, have clear targets and a complement to the social policy that is being done in this country? We have tabled those amendments. That is, while you argue whether we better or worse tread the law of the State, and you if we are what we are, the Basques, it turns out that this law can be passed without pain or glory, if it were for one and the other, without any exercise of self-government, without any ambition of self-government, without any competitive development and without any economic and social ambition. The Socialists have them and we have raised them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u165	Thank you, Mr Price. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u166	I'm going to have to withdraw that Mr. Isasi's speech was demagogic, because, Prieto, of course, next to his because it doesn't seem so demagogic to me anymore. Nik you had to push bat gutxitxoa from her, black ore. Of course, listening to you because I don't think it's demagogic. Demagogic yours, Mr. Prieto. Man, I mean, he was a clear, perfect example, he embroidered it. And the Basques, and the Basques, together and together, we're capable and we're going to be capable of everything. Of course I do! What happens is that on this bench you have Basques and Basques who ideologically, from a perspective of political ideology, we have grown up listening to the mountain being turned around, because the opposite leads us to lose ourselves or to die on the road blown apart without reaching the summit, which is our goal and which is where we are going to get to. But we will arrive, the Basques and the Basques together, and you, and all of you will also come with us, but we will go around the mountain until we reach the summit, respecting the rules in force, without deceiving people, without fictions, without placing ourselves outside reality. We're not fooling anybody. You said, Mr. Isas, it's not time to introduce this bill of law, but this bill of law, which was accepted in the July Government of 2014. We can't blame him for our lack of efficiency. Or are they guilty? July 2014, 10 months ago, they agreed. How could we say to you that the time is not good? We'll have to say something to ourselves, what's going on, let's be like this. The time hasn't come before you've picked it up. Second, you said it's time for ambitions. I'll tell you again, the Jest Party is a hundred years ahead of ambition, and history, in recent history, was mentioned at the board itself, and you mentioned it today, this team of lawmen, we weren't here, but I wasn't here. And there was a proposition in the financial area. This was founded by the eulogy of the eulogies from the legislature. He stopped. Now, in this Chamber, there's another group of jobs to move forward in the Autogover. If you wish to choose, we will be able to advance, and there to place something in the financial world. Still, always, throughout our history, not only now, all our time, with responsibility, knowing what reality is and what we could achieve. And then, third and final, you said there was no negotiation camp here. And first, that we've accepted the Local Organizational Act and that's where we have negotiated. Mr. Isas, we have the moment to negotiate in partial correction in discussions. They've been looking for intermediates in discussions in fragmentary corrections. That's our moment now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote for it or not to go back to the bill of law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u168	So it won't go back to the Law Project. Can you explain the vote? No. Number of points in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Euspilla Group, concerning the planet of Familian organization. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs Garrido, it's yours to introduce the word and take it away.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Well, in the face of requests from themselves and strangers, I will try to be brief, since we also understand that there is a broad consensus on this initiative, which we also hope can even become unanimous. On the 18th of March, we had an interpelation on the international plan of helping families. You know, if you'd like to know the whole story, you'd be happy to hear about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u170	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u171	...of this plan...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u172	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u173	...that the deadline was finished. We think the evaluation of this plan is of its importance, in order to know, on the one hand, which was the degree of the execution of this plan, and on the other, as we must make a new plan, what steps, ends, and measures of that plan are to be made. On March 18th, we presented an inquiry into the intentions of this Government regarding the new family plan to be drawn up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u174	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u175	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Since the III Inter-Agency Family Support Plan in Euskadi has been completed, it was a plan for 2011-2015. We believe that it is important to know the evaluation of the plan that has ended its existence, to know the degree of implementation of this plan and above all to know what the axes, objectives and measures of the new plan have to be. The Basque Government replied to us, said the Employment and Social Affairs Adviser, Mr Toña, who was currently developing more than a plan, which were thinking of a strategy, the Basque strategy for investing in families, children and families, and that it was not a plan, which was a strategic plan to support families, because it wanted to deal in an important way with the problems of families. I do not know if that plan has also been taken a little off the sleeve, also because of the very pre-election scenario that also seems to be living in Euskadi, but the advisor told us that this plan was more ambitious than a family plan, which was a long-term strategy, because it was ultimately a strategic investment plan, with characteristics of being a multi-year, interdepartmental and inter-institutional plan, and he even told us that there was a draft that was being handled. In addition, the adviser also referred to positive paternity days, co-responsibility between parents, which were going to go away, better said, because this interpellation ended on a Friday, to be held that weekend in Vitoria, and which the Basque Government was going to disburse from 2020 200 million euros a year, but which previously between 2016 and 2020 was going to be put at the table 50 million euros a year. We this announcement, of course, again frame it in an absolutely electoral announcement, within the propaganda, scenery of a government that, as we are repeatedly recalling from the People's Group, offers a rather poor management balance. Now, at this time, 7 bills passed out of the 29 which in its day undertook to pass Mr. lehendakari. We believe that, in the area of family, conciliation, birth control in a community where this represents a major structural problem, there are major shortcomings. We have seen throughout this legislature that there have been cuts in conciliation, and this group has promoted concrete initiatives in this House, so that this is an absolute priority of this government, because it is not worth doing an electoral act, announcing a handful of millions from 2020, some from 2016, but then not seeing that any additional amount of these amounts have been recorded in the 2016 Budgets, which, as we see in other years, have been absolutely insufficient to meet the needs of Basque families. Therefore, we see that at the very last moment a plan is announced, a plan seems to be ambitious, but, as I say, it is not accompanied by any additional amount in the recently approved budgets. In addition, we know the data, which has motivated the submission of this motion that is missing from the evaluation of the III Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support. I believe that there are some issues from the Group of the European People's Party, and we have also made this clear in numerous initiatives, issues of the current reality of Basque society that need to be taken into account and that have to do with families, such as the lengthening of the period of formation of young people, the late emancipation, the delay in having offspring, the wage gap in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and also in other places, but here in particular, the difficulties of conciliation, the processes of breaking up living together, that Euskadi has one of the lowest birth rates, not only from the rest of Spain, but also from Europe, families, who are also in a situation of special vulnerability or families with fewer resources. Therefore, measures related to employment, social benefits, measures to support families, provision of services, housing, education, health, reconciliation, ageing of the population must be promoted and reconsidered, also with very high rates of ageing of the population, the whole issue of dependents and the promotion of birth. And no one misses the importance of the institution of the family, which is one of the most valued institutions of our society, basic unit of social articulation, agent of integration and social, economic and political well-being, natural means to develop the well-being of all its members, and which is the main agent of socialization and care and protection among its members. I therefore believe that we all agree, at least that has been the purpose of the People's Party initiative, the elaboration of family plans as basic frameworks for the action of the public authorities in family policies. I think it is also important to take into account the reference to the Comprehensive Family Support Plan approved in this legislature. I know that it is difficult for the Basque Government, and the Basque Nationalist Party, to look at Madrid, but I think that a good job has been done by Minister Alonso in Madrid to approve a plan that would be a good mirror in which to look forward to approving the future family plan of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And I also believe, as I have said throughout my speech, and I am finishing, and I believe that I am in line with the expectations of my intervention by the groups represented in this House, that family policies have been somewhat inadequate by this government, and so today we are returning to this government's duties in this area. This is how we have reached a compromise agreement that reflects the fundamentals or the main request, because it was the capital request made by this group for the Basque Government to evaluate the third inter-institutional family support plan. We also ask the Government to reflect on and assess the impact of the package of support and support policies for families. And also, in line with the policies or aid that are being promoted at European level, which is also one of the mirrors that this government is looking at, and with very specific objectives, which are also reflected in the Family Support Act, that an analysis be made compared to all these policies. So, I think it's a good deal. I have to thank the two groups that signed this transaction, the Basque Nationalist Party, which is also the group that supports the Government, and the Socialist Party, and I hope that, as a common minimum in which we can agree all groups, this agreement also has the accession of the rest of the groups, EH Bildu and UPyD. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u176	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. My dear lady, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u177	Thank you, Chief of Parliament, and good evening to all. This time we're playing ball time, it's the negative balance of the family made during the next thousand days. We'd like to be different, so don't hesitate. In four years several childish steps might be due to free school; to reduce the number of hours of labouring hours; to synchronize the hours: the most important, the most educational centres, the most public institutions, the rights of comparing and prolonging their parents' rights, to extend and to extend the subsidies given for their children, and so on. But that's not what you did. In the meantime, in this legislation, families have become poor and have continued to impoverish. And the combination is getting more and more difficult, because the instability of the job and the preventives make it even harder to arrange the custody of the people. It's not possible to look after people well today and answer to the needs of the job trade. It's not to say that the families are now in a state of emergency. And when you talk so much about the crisis, we want to tell you that, apart from the economic crisis, we've also lived a crisis of care, because it's getting harder and harder to take care of people. In fact, it's impossible to look after people properly, and the way people care for people (which we have here) isn't fair, and it's not bearable. The family bag is getting more and more crowded and the pockets are getting more and more empty. In these crisis families are required to fulfil the function of the social mattress rather than to take the responsibility of public institutions. And if it's strange, in this state of emergency, the family of AYRE has continued to be permanent, forever and ever. Nothing's gotten ahead of us. These policies have been continued to make, and these are not enough; they are few, and have pernicious consequences, which leave the care of persons behind their families, and are properly on the backs of women. A new measure to prevent the impoverishing of families and children, and to facilitate no new measure. As to the impoverishing of families and children, the laws of 2008 to aid the families must be progressively extended to the standards of the European Union of 2020. It is necessary to increase the amount of money given for each child, and, on the other hand, that the duration of this subsidy should be extended. That is to say, that this scholarship is to be given while children are in a necessary education. But nothing has advanced in this direction; If it is a child, it is given at the moment when it is born, and if it is a second child, at the moment when it is born, and when it is a year. And that's the situation. On the other hand, no new measures to facilitate association. Although the Arlias herself confessed that one of the principal difficulties of families is of the constituency. No measure of time for synchronization, no restraint of labour, no system of dependence paid for the parents, and still remote from the state of children's schools. The main measures for culture are for reducing the children's work and support. Miserable and improper helps are not accompanied by other measures. They're scans because each person is given 1,700 euros. And this does not at all make up for the loss of labour, or of want of dependence. And if they do not assist in other respects, these measures are improper because they continue to rule over the women of watch. After all, they're the incentive to keep women away from the job trade or to promote habits. And that's where the drama is, that's 92% of the users of these people. And besides, these culture support isn't available to everyone. The rights of those who are stable are only for the most part not an option, but for the most part, as far as incomes disappear or decreases with the necessities of labour. In the meantime, few public services have been developed for the care of the people, and in the trade we have two extremes: for some, especially the men, the long periods of labour, and especially the women, the partial employments, the preparation, and the rest of the business. But it's not just that the Urkullu government didn't anticipate anything, it's just that they went on with the usual beauties. He's reduced to your friends, and you'll remember that he's brought half a share of money to the settlement in 2014 and that five months before the year was over, producing no stability among the families who counted that amount of money. In short, in a state of mildness, deep in the crisis of care, the fun has continued with the four-year-old pretty ones and, worse, it's reduced to them. When we note the thousand days of the Urkullu we have no doubt: I'm afraid it's too bad. And to close the circle, more propaganda and propaganda. It's important to collect EH from general expressions to come to precise commitments and proposals. But, you know, it's still locked in general statements. After I'd given up the idea of comparing parent-authorized groups, I'd like to hear from you, I'd have to tell you about the complications in the custody of men. And the president used these events to begin the election campaign. Here he announced that if he's the president again, he'll develop a family investigative strategy. Hardly any general and spectral intentions. We don't know very well what this strategy will do. But what is unacceptable is that during these four years nothing has been done, and now the President is to use an institutional campaign and announce that he is the president and he will do it again. For all this, we've received three points in the section of the population's motion. In a way, it's my duty to give accounts to the locals. And therefore it is necessary, as the Populous Group says, that if a plan has been made to guide the policy of the family, and has been made, and that the time of which has been completed, the balance and public of what has been done should be made. We all have the right to know. But in any case, data in hand, we can maintain that balance is negative. And for all we've said before, we're proposing to reject the antisocial policy that you've made in this neighborhood. He's charging me. And lastly, when we look forward to it, we define that it is necessary to make new family policy, changeers, based on the right we have to preserve and preserve all persons, based on these two principles: Public institutions must be assured that all men will be well cared for, and that people will be able to choose how and when they want to look after them. And all this has to be done in common. Watching works principally on families, instead of leaving them behind the women, socializing the care of the care of the guard, encouraging the mutual affinities of public institutions, corporations, and men.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u178	Thank you, Mrs. New House. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Sarasia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u179	Good afternoon, everyone. I know it's the last item on the agenda, but that's not why it's the least interesting. This debate is certainly quite interesting for our group. And I want to start by saying that there is an extraordinary report by Ararteko called Policies to support the families of Euskadi. Analysis and proposals. And this report is from July 2014 and it entered our Parliament. It's a pretty didactic manual and I think it says everything we need to know and to know what to do. And so I want to put it in value. The Socialists know perfectly well what we are talking about, so we have been asking the Basque Government throughout the legislature about the Basque strategy of support for families. From the answers we have received, which are a few, we conclude that this Government has gone from point to point in the need to address a structural problem in the Basque population pyramid, which has an ageing population, together with a low birth rate and which highlights the need to implement new public policies to support families and promote birth. I refer to the replies received by my group from the Basque Government. In October 2014, we were already informed that the meeting of the Basque Family Council, held on 17 July 2013, adopted a document reformulating the III Inter-Agency Family Support Plan, 2011-2015. That document was called the Basque Strategy for Families. I don't make it up. This is written by the Government, in particular by the previous adviser, Mr Aburto. The Government considered it necessary to prioritize policy areas and strategic actions, adapting them to the new needs that are being identified at the Basque Observatory for Families. And so far we agree. The areas that drive this reformulation are: reconciliation of personal and working family life, positive parenting, intergenerational solidarity and financial support for this purpose. And of course, we have seen a number of debates in this Parliament where we have talked about family aid, conciliation aid, work and family life, and we have also seen the regulatory changes to this effect in three decrees. The Socialists, we ask for this document from the Government, and also the minutes of the meetings of the Basque Family Council, which have been held once a year. And when we read these minutes – two, because the third one is not yet available – we see that the government is limited solely and exclusively to giving data on the financial aid for the families and the people who have benefited. And, of course, we conclude that they are mostly women and that families are middle-high incomes. I have to say that the Basque Country is one of the territories with a lower birth rate, and I mean everyone. A reality that is not new, that has been mitigated by the arrival of immigrants in the last decade, that has been halted precisely by the eruption of this long so-called economic crisis. The number of deaths exceeds that of births. The data provided by Eustat indicate that the Basque Autonomous Community is experiencing a decrease in the number of births by around 7%, which puts us in the 2003 records. And, of course, this is quite worrying. The vast majority of experts agree with the decrease in the fertility of women and the difficulty of reconciling family life with work, which leads to delays in the age of motherhood and, at the same time, to a reduction in the number of children. The Department of Employment and Social Policy amended the decrees regulating economic assistance to families. However, there is also a high agreement among experts to conclude that public policies to promote birth are not so much about economic incentives, but rather about other measures that promote reconciliation, promote co-responsibility in the care of men and women, and share the labour discrimination of women who wish to exercise motherhood. On this type of support to families and the promotion of birth, we asked the Government again in November 2014. We wanted to know what they were doing in this regard. And the Government told us that it was doing a deep reflection on the impact on Basque society of the set of family support policies being implemented from the various institutions, and that in the 2015 draft Budgets, a budget of €30,000 was allocated for the design of a Basque family support and birth promotion strategy, which would be completed by the end of 2015. I refer again to this document, which is an extraordinary report by Ararteko, where it already says "policies of support for the families of Euskadi, analysis and proposals" and here it already speaks of all this and that profound reflection, which I believe was made from the institution of Ararteko. The answer manifested an improper indolence of a responsible government. The then adviser, Mr Aburto, was announcing that, at best, Euskadi would not have an operational policy in this area until the next parliamentary term. In the Socialist Group's view, the delay is entirely unjustified and reveals the disdain and lack of initiative and ideas of this Government on an issue to which other countries are responding with positive results, and which we should look with great interest. An attitude that we have been showing throughout the legislature. That is why we again asked the government if it seemed reasonable to them that we should wait until 2016 to have a policy of supporting families and promoting birth. And the answer was "what time is it, apples I bring," because the government replied again that they were in deep reflection, which they have been doing throughout the legislature. Moreover, they were making an analysis compared to the policies being carried out in the European Union, which this Parliament is supposed to be unaware of, and it is not true because it is in Ararteko's extraordinary report – here comes that comparative analysis at the end. In this respect, we have tabled our amendment. We want to know what is this profound reflection that is taking so long to reach this responsible government, especially the government of individuals and families, and that comparative analysis of the policies of the European Union. Finally, we understand what the bet is on this government. The bet this government is in has seen it evidenced in the announcement of the days organized by the Department of Employment and Social Policy on positive paternity, where they announce a plan of investment in children and the family – and I, Mrs Garrido, equal your figures and mine, as we move a little for what the media also tell us, says that it is 800 million until 2020; divided into four, it would be 200 million per year. But I had understood it to you 50 million, so I didn't understand it well." Either way, I say again that that is a measure of style election program and announcement. I would like this government to tell me what it has done for us families, for us people, what it is supporting us on, because, of course, economic aid can be an incentive, but it has also been late, late. We have discussed this issue. However, we do not disqualify the policies that have been made to date. On the contrary, we are highlighting some issues. But it is true that the situation has changed, and worryingly. I want to end one last question. If you get on the Internet and put "Towards a strategic Basque investment in the family and in the families: Diagnosis, base, objective theories and proposals", of January 25, 2016, I guess this will be the strategy announced by the government, well, here picks up a number of ideas, but there is no quantification. They're just ideas, which I find very interesting. He says why a Basque family strategy is needed. Because the crisis has brought about changes, because it has increased child poverty and inequality, because the difficulties for youth emancipation are increasing, and for this reason they are calling for creating new families, because there is a gender inequality, which is increasing, and difficulties in reconciling work and family life. The best birth policy is gender equality, and we must bear that in mind. Gender equality and co-responsibility. Because there is a Basque deficit in relation to family policies, it is the least developed policy in Euskadi – but this is the deep reflection to which this government is subject – and because the fall in the birth rate since 2009 is quite sharp and the demographic forecast is that by 2026 30% of births will fall. This, together with the increase in ageing, I believe that we have a serious structural problem, and this requires more than a plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. We believe that every group partakes of the importance of the subject, and that it is necessary that the exact measure should be given to the family, and especially to preserve and protect the families which have children. For that, President Urkullu announced that he's making a general family strategy like other spokesmen. This strategy must have the character of the popular genius, the several public and private institutions, and the need of all the socialists to be truly effective. The Moment requires the support of Familiai III. To bring the rating of the international plan to the legislature, we agree with the demands made, and we agree with the gathering that it must go beyond when it demands. The measurements I've taken around the family haven't got all the consequences we'd like to do. For example, the rate of birth, as you have mentioned, is one of the lowest in Europe. So maybe we should give a model change to get more efficient measures. The Lehendakari Urkullu himself, in the days of positive fatherhood, said: "In recent years a clear effort has been made, but in turn it must be recognized that policies to support families in our Community have not yet been sufficiently developed. Family policy is not alien, but is part of the social policies of the Government. And that is why, because obviously there is a lot of work still to be done in this area, the Basque Government has been working on the development of a strategy to support the family and children." We note the value of the family as a basic and fundamental institution. In our view, we must abandon the idea of focusing all family policies on institutionalizing care, we must move forward. The strategy must involve a major country pact with public and private collaboration and involvement, at all institutional levels in Euskadi, as well as of the various social actors and political groups. You, the Collectors, you're so fond of filling the phrase "to talk" that President Urkullu is in charge of. As I have said, PP's demand seems permitted to us, and it is important to make a step forward that we know where we are, which is the starting point, so that we can go forward. However, we have to do more about our families, and in this sense we have to do the Eugina patriots in the community, and in this sense, the steps of the hiccoughs seem important to us in the design of the general family strategy. The importance this Government attaches to the family and to children, and its firm will to continue to make progress in improving their situation, is therefore meridianly clear. We understand and maintain the family as the core of our society. For this reason, the Basque strategy for supporting the family and children is based on the idea that spending on family support policies is an investment in the future and must be addressed from the medium and long-term perspective. The commitment of the Government led by the Lehendakari Urkullu, and also that of the Basque Nationalist group, is to strengthen social policies and focus them on the family as an essential core of coexistence. The strategy is a road map that contains a decalogue of proposals to create an overall enabling framework for people's development. Many of the measures will need to be discussed and agreed with social institutions and actors, which are generally favourable conditions for families to see their demands and needs for services covered. Road map to be discussed and agreed with the rest of the institutions, actors and political groups. The strategy is based on the right of all families with children to access minimum economic resources and socio-cultural sports and leisure facilities and activities, which will be open to the whole population of children and young people in Euskadi and, in particular, those with the greatest socio-economic difficulties. The strategy – I insist – contains a decalogue of concrete measures to further advance the protection of the family and children, which we will already have time to discuss long and extended. The strategy needs an economic supply and the amount of 200 million dollars is placed on the table until 2020 years later. It's clear we can't have first and secondary people in our society, much less children. And to avoid instability, the worst families will have special attention in the general strategy of families. A lack of money can't be an obstacle to all children who want to share culture, leisure, and sports. It is necessary to encourage other measures of time which their children will have. Society in general, and the business world, strictly speaking, must penetrate the rationalization of the hours. This, changing timetables, will make it easier to concentrate. So, in conclusion, we've reached a middle-class center with the proposed team and the Social Party. I'm asking you to help your families. So that the evaluation of the Planic Organization may be brought to the legislature by that step. The government will have to consider the data of this rating for the next strategic plan. On our side, President Urkullu is only missing us from his work in the strategic plan of treating family and childhood in the most general manner. And we hope that in the future we can contribute, because we really deserve things, families. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing over to the group that hasn't issued any corrections... No words. Passing to responses turn. Mrs Garrido mustn't speak. The representative of the EH Group, Madam of the New House, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u183	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. I'll be short. PP, PSE, and PNV, as you have received, you propose in the middle of the community of Families. Plan evaluation. In general, a family police ball and a comparison of the family police in Europe. We didn't have any trouble with them. But the problem is, it's too late. Now, recently, we heard from the Urkullus, and from the press, that he's making a reflection and there's a Declogo, and he's supposed to be very interesting, it's going to be awful. And it is true that it is a work of reflection and balance about the pretty ones as yet. We understand that this is the basis for defining family policyes. But the question is, that this labour ought to be done in 2013; the question is, that this work is a starting-point from the politics of the family, that it is a foundation. And now, that we are at the end of legislation, and have hitherto only been continued, and still more, by degrees, the most beautiful. That's the problem, it's too late. This was a work to be done at the beginning of legislation, in our opinion, which is not serious. And the question is, what is required here in this motion, in the first instance, in the third. that this evaluation of the plan had already been requested on the 16th of April, 2015, by the Congressman, that it was necessary to do so and bring it back on April 16th of April, 2015. So we're thinking about the same thing, because it's just because you're not listening to the law. I don't know how many times we're gonna have to bring the demands to the parliament and listen to the funns we're going to have to accept. And there, in the same way as usual, it was asked to hear from M.M. to compare a page of the road to the European standards in the circle of contact. And I want him to present all that for the end of the year 2015. As far as I know, there has been nothing about it. Around the same thing, then, I was just wondering if you'd listen to that kind of legal mover. And what has been said, when it is about to finish the term, the President has begun his propaganda, and we do not know very well what this strategy is about. Once, twice, we've been told three times that there's a strategy, that's to be represented, but we haven't heard from the strategy, we don't know what that is, and we're already in the campaign, when the president has had four years to develop his family politics and have done nothing new. That's why we think this isn't serious and we won't get in this game. So, we're going to make a suggestion. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u184	Thank you, Mrs. New House. Lady Sarah must not speak. Too many women.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u185	Yes, one second and your permission from the seat. One thing to say to the recruiting delegate. You say it's late to think about it because of the necessity of reflection. But I must remind you that the duration of the plan was to go to 2015, so that now, in our opinion, it is time to ask for this reflection and that achievement. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Well, since the discussion's over, we'll vote for the popular Basque teams, the Basque Socialists and the Ease Abertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters, 51; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-07.u187	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Since the theme list has run out, the integer meeting ended too. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fifty.
