ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u0	Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. Silence. First point in theme list: "The question is, Joseba Egibar Artola Elegarians have been made to the President by the legislature, to keep him in growth, and to strengthen the cultivation of employment in the decade of Eucharin, as to the fundamental keyors of economic policy." Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u1	Congressmasters, members of the legislature, chiefs of departments, President Urkullu, good morning to all. In life, and in politics, it is much easier to ask than to answer. And if in politics a person wants to be compromised, he must study his answers. And you can see that trueness in answers. That's why I'm here to ask you, Mr. President, because during the last few weeks we've witnessed the data of unemployment on both sides. Last week in Euskadedi and Eukadian economic development, it was said that the raw internal product of three percent of three, three, and that we continually chained them in the course of 9-month growth. Even in the same week, on account of the bienity of the machine-remint, sensations have been positive, sensations and data. And I would add, at last, that we have known, yesterday, the rate of unemployment. Although there have been data that might have been optimistic, it's also obvious that 148.013 euscalized unemployment. And all this depends on our society and our institutions, and we wish to maintain that social competition. That's why it's a direct and accurate question. I know that in four minutes this cannot be answered, but I believe that the citizens of the town are aware of this truth too. Where do you see, where your government sees the keys, the keys to the future and the perspective, from where we come from and from the facts, we'll go where we're going? We finally know how you see it, because we finally know that institutions can't represent or finally represent the good operation of industry, the rate of production or of the "index" of industry, but we want to know how you see this future as an organization, because in the end even the citizens need that perspective. And as president of Euskadian, I think it's important to let people get this clean, honest, honest. We're not gonna get to touch the sky, not even from a distance. We've got our own bits and things to do, but about that we'd like to meet your opinion, you'd like to hear it. So, this is my question. This is my point. As far as you can, and in a tone, you've got your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u2	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It is true, Mr. Egibar, as you have said, that we grow; it is growing up in manufactures, and it is creating employment. Three years ago, he was almost 180,000 people out of jobs in the Euskádin, and today he's less than 150 grand. However, I have said it, and shall repeat it: We've got a lot to do, a lot to grow up. We'll have to try our best if we can get to the right place in the next few months. Our prediction is that we will return to the crisis in 2020. Ten to ten, little by little, we'll continue to get the job back. We have two goals: to transform our industry and create employment. Create and promote a growth and quality employment. The key is to maintain economic politics and industrial politics. That'll guarantee us a competitive and just Eukadin economy. We are leaving the recession behind and, as you have said, the economy and industry are growing consistently and job creation is maintained. Yesterday, in fact, we had a new positive indicator: in May, 30,000 people stopped less than three years ago. But much remains to be done and we will have to continue to make a great effort to regain the pre-crisis position in 2020. And the key is to maintain economic policy and industrial policy, bet on smart specialization in sectors of the future, innovation and digitisation of industry through Basque Industry 4.0. The key is to internationalize the economy to gain capacity in the global market; to have financial instruments to invest in innovation and strategic sectors; to have taxation that supports productive investment and innovation; to have qualified training in university and vocational training; to have employment plans and first job experiences for young people; to ensure the conditions of stability and confidence that favor investment and economic development. The key is to keep growing tenth to tenth. The evaluation of the Employment and Economic Recovery Plan 2014-2016, Euskadi's PNV-Socialist Party agreement, shows that today 96% of initiatives are implemented and the results exceed 110%. Thus, for example, we have reached the 912,000 people affiliated with Social Security, the highest share in four years. It is now up to us to grow, and the key is to consolidate stability and trust, maintain governance, support the productive economy, and ensure the sustainability of public policies. This shared effort will enable us to maintain public services and ensure a sustainable country with industrial activity around 25% of the economy, create quality jobs and reduce the unemployment rate below 10% this decade. The key to the future for Euskadi is to ensure governance and stability. Our support for the economy is aimed at achieving a cohesive and quality of life society. I am talking about a competitive and fair economy. So it's a key to maintain public policies to promote the future of our economy. The goal is that we can be a permanent country. A permanent Basque from the environmental point of view, a permanent Basque from a public service point of view. So I'm talking about a competitive and just economy. What we are trying to accomplish by aiding economics is that society has cohesion and a quality of life. That's the future key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To question, Oskar Mate García de Jalón EH Team members made for the president in order to avoid the poverty and social rupture that are being rooted in our territory." Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. We're worried and worried about EH Collecton, because the poverty and social rupture that's being rooted in this part of our country are increasing. The President has just used several macronomical data to make him believe that we're passing the crisis. And we believe that's what government will be doing in the next few months. It's true that we're growing up in growth, but poverty is going up, social waste, homeless up, my poor poverty high, high up, high birth-born, and so on. Thus, Mr. President, growth is plain, and the growth you have mentioned is evident from what I have described. The rich are consequently richer and richer, and the poor are more poor and more poor. Before this reality we ask the President the following question: Does Mr. President think that it is necessary to strengthen public policies in our country, or at least in this part of it to avoid the poverty and social rupture that are being rooted?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u6	Thank you, Mr. Matute. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Yes, Mr. Matute, we must continue to strengthen our public policies in order to prevent the poverty and social rupture which may be due to romance. And we have to keep doing this like it's done in the last decades. Trouble doesn't get better every day. You need a strong policy. We prefer all of these organizations to jobs and politics. Not only now, but also before, and in the precedent laws we have come to agree with the several political forces. And we've even made one of these days to agree to the social service wallet and thereby to guarantee a decent life for all people. It's true that we didn't get through all the problems, but we're stubborn and we'll get through the interactions, I'm sure. I'll tell you today, Mr. Matute. we deal with all the factors you have mentioned. So we invest in improving the training, encourage new opportunities to work, facilitate access to a decent apartment. It's been years since we've shown that our priority has been to guarantee people's services. All you have to do is see things: three of four euros are directed to the policy of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. President. We could make this brief debate that we have, over time, a war of figures. But the problem is that behind the figures are people. You pointed out in the previous question that we are leaving the recession behind, and you said we are, I suppose in an inclusive plural. But it is not true that we are all leaving the recession behind, because there are half a million people in this country who are at risk of poverty and exclusion. And you, in different speeches here, in this House and elsewhere, have pointed out as a priority axis for you things as a unique social protection system so as not to leave anyone behind. Are there half a million people in this country who have to stay behind? Because that's the reality we have. If I do not doubt his goodwill, I do not come here to cherish his commitment to preventing people from being at risk of poverty or exclusion! What I question, what I confront, is their policies. Because its policies are not policies that avoid dualisation, that avoid social bankruptcy, that prevent the president of Iberdrola from earning 44,000 euros a day, while people are increasingly having difficulty coping with the receipt of light. That's the reality we live in. A reality that goes from the economic crisis to the social crisis, that accepts that we have to leave a part of this society lying behind, that we have to leave a part of this society in the dark, in child poverty, in poverty and in hunger, so that economic growth can be sustained. Because economic growth is taking place, and I have told you, I do not deny it. Macroeconomic data indicate this. But it's an impoverishing growth. It is a growth that benefits a few, to the detriment of a large majority. It is a growth that is based on an optimization not only of resources, but also of the labour force, making it increasingly precarious. Because it is true that unemployment has decreased, but – said yesterday by a councillor of his own government – with long-term unemployed, with an element of chronification, and with precarious contracts. That is the reality we are in, and that is why we are pointing out the concern I have expressed to you. Because the diagnosis of this country is that reality is imposed on our desires. And in that reality we see that women continue to earn an average of 8,000 euros less than men; we see that there are 54,000 families without any benefit; we see that there are 35% youth unemployment compared to 17% in Europe; we see that there are 100,000 people without any benefit of the 148,000 or 149,000 unemployed who currently are and according to the data known yesterday (64% of the unemployed do not receive any benefit), and we see that the unemployment rate will be around 14,2 or 14,3 according to yesterday's data, while in Europe it is 9% and in the Eurozone it is 10%. I honestly don't think we're in the big league. I believe that the risk of exclusion, the risk of poverty, is increasingly widespread in society, because patterns of behaviour and economy are being followed that do not help. And I ask you one last question: is the Social Services Act, which on December 25 would have to guarantee the subjective right of access, going to be possible?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u10	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u11	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Matute, for not wanting to go into war on figures, you have had a second intervention with a comparison of figures also with the European Union. In any case, the only figures I have referred to in my initial speech have been that we spend three out of four euros on social policies. And in the spirit of not leaving anyone behind. I thank you for your appreciation of the growth of the economy, and that recognition has also been accompanied by my intervention with emphasis on the need to continue to drive public policies. Look, I have stated that we will only have overcome the crisis when we manage to overcome its effects on people. I have said that public policies need to be strengthened. But I also have to tell you that today Euskadi devotes more investment to education, health and social protection than before the crisis, rather than in our environment, and in line with what is being dedicated in Europe. And this, Mr Matute, is not self-congratulation, because it is this House that has been supporting this system of protection for almost three decades. This House. Given the depth of the crisis, the Basque system of benefits has played a decisive role, and the income guarantee policy has allowed the crisis not to result in an increase in the most serious situations of poverty. Euskadi is also part of the small group of European countries, which has, within its income guarantee policy, a system of employment incentives that allows for greater protection for the low-wage employed population. This Government is clear that public policies need to be strengthened, and we are going to do so through a twofold effort: the effort to maintain a benefit system, which is seen as the main container element of this social gap, which is fundamentally linked to unemployment; and the effort to improve the benefit system and its management, bringing it to all those in need. We're reversing the situation. We are ensuring cohesion. It is up to us to continue to strengthen public policies, to ensure that they remain viable and sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Michael Unzalu Hermosa, a member of the Basque Socialists, of the President, of not taking any precautions to avoid the EIBn hearing." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good days to all. Even the children are removed from the ETV. Those who know the Euscanics don't start a single public network that's been broadcasting in their own language for a long time. We have been alerting for a long time about what is happening on public television, and the Government's response has been that there is a lot of competition, that there is little money and that the management of the public body should not be questioned. Socialists do not question the public service of broadcasting: we question those who are leading them into irrelevantness and those who consent to it. And those responsible that even the kids – mostly enrolled in Basque in their schools, with parents who want to watch TV in Basque – escape to any other channel other than Basque, should assume the failure of this mandate. To set an example and continue with child programming, there are many thematic chains that offer series and drawings such as ETB3, but, as parents and mothers who sit in this same Chamber would well explain, while Doraemon in ETB3 remains in the nursery, in other chains he is already in university. All the time the re-established and repetition of the same programs brings attention to other offers, and the children at once become aware of this deception. [[Berber]] - No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u14	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u15	Creating artificial channels to try to scratch tenths that make up the total sum of audiences is cheating on the solo. The reality shows us another image: in this mandate, the offer of our television has not been directed to the interests of those who pay it; therefore, public resources have been wasted. Mr Lehendakari, less spending on election polls, which is a job that does not correspond to ETB – for that you have plenty of resources – and more quality in your programming for all public. Therefore, I ask you, do you still think, against what the majority of this Chamber has said, what EIB's management is required by a public wireless service.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u16	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u17	President of the Parliament, President, chief of the Department, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Unzalu, you're back with ETV auditions. As I explained on February 5th to this legislature, it's being a particularly complicated moment for EIB. The Basque Commissite has been obliged to do more than affluent means, which is not easy. I think we all know these difficulties here because we have often explained them in this Chamber. We are aware of the situation, and we try to accompany EITB's leadership in order to change inertia. Some aspects belong to the professionals and other issues are in our hands; for example, to give them greater stability so that they can advance their strategic plan. In this regard, and as you are well aware, this Government has approved a new EITB programme contract for the next four years, which sets out the specific commitments, activities and objectives to be met by EITB and its companies. It also notes the Basque Government's commitments to its financing, as well as the enforcement mechanisms. It is therefore for this Government to make available to EITB the financial means for its proper functioning and for obtaining social support. And we know they're working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u18	Thank you, Mr. Uriart. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u19	Yes, ma'am. Actually, this is not the first time we've talked about this. In the equator of the legislature I had this same debate with the lehendakari. So we were discussing whether the hearing accumulated by ETB was 11th or 13th, but it's just that today we don't even get far to the 10th. Data from the last few days tell us that between the four channels of ETB do not reach 9.5. Even the Deia, a newspaper that does not express itself very critical with the government, gave yesterday as the headline that ETB2 recorded in May the lowest result of its history, with 6.6% share. Mr Surio's leadership was beaten, by the group supporting his Government, by the hearings. Well, then three channels were counted; today, with four, we do not get the worst data from the previous legislature. In the debate to which I referred, the Lehendakari argued, as you also did today, that from 2012 to 2014 the EITB budget had fallen by 12%. It happens that between the 2015 and 2016 budgets the increase has been 6.56%, and the result is more public money for less audience. To give another data, today each Basque and Basque we contribute 3 euros more than in 2014 for EITB, exactly we get 52 euros for each Basque and Basque. And this is what seems to us to be more serious, that the money of the citizenry is not managed properly. Madam Counsellor, I believe that this situation should induce the Government to act, to demand answers, to take action. But his attitude throughout this time has been to look elsewhere and give uncritical support to a leadership that is not responding to the challenge he has to face. These reflections are not done. The same producers continue to be hired who continue to manufacture programmes that continue to fail. And they do not fail because this Parliament criticizes public television.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu, time is up. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u21	Mr Unzalu, it is not about seeking excuses; it is about accepting reality as it is, and acting accordingly. The fact is that EITB, like other autonomous channels, is experiencing a very complex situation, a scenario that is largely due to the change of television model promoted by the central government, with laws and measures that have done nothing but favor the big ones and harm the small ones. A clear example is the distribution of digital dividend channels, which, as you know, has been totally negative for ETB. Flaco favor was then made! That would also be compounded by the interest of some political parties, exerting pressure that in no way helps EITB's interests and what the entity represents. But there's more. The economic crisis has led to a significant decline in both public and private revenues. And if we look at the sports camp, we can see that this area has been made very difficult by auction. Moreover, the prices of football and other sports have been multiplied until they have reached terrifying numbers. And I agree with you, Mr. Unzalu: ETB has to deal with this new situation, but we can't forget what is the reality of ETB and what is the reason for its being. ETB wasn't created 30 years ago to have another television set. ETV's an audience, yes, but a lot more. It's a media with a deep social root. It's the communication that this society created, and we have to defend ourselves against all of us. Mr. Unzalu, the head of the EIB and everyone who works on the ETB team are working in front of this difficult situation, and that job has its interesting results. Not all data is criticism, not even less. ETB holds the second position in the ranking of autonomous televisions, with an average of 1,200,000 spectators per day. He has also been a leader in information for a long time. EITB radio has a market share of almost 40%, a unique and unique case in the public model, which exceeds the 500 000 audience barrier. And, to quote one more fact, Eitbnet also closed last year beating records, about to reach the 2 million unique users per month and more than 100,000 new users who regularly access eitb.eus. It's in everybody's hands to protect ETV and get rid of the public argument.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos Gómez Euscal Group Uspulian Parliament for the president, "about the numerous intermediates of EITBk Ficus." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Mr Lehendakari, this is not the first time in this Parliament that the political use that the Basque Government and the PNV have made of Basque television and public radio has been highlighted. Throughout its history, the decisions that have been taken in EITB have, first of all, obeyed the political criteria of the PNV, for partisan reasons. That political control, that political use, that gross political instrumentalization is probably still the main burden on ETB, whose hearings, as has been said here, are in free fall. And that should be the concern of those who have been in the leadership of EITB in recent years. A public television with well-defined functions, with a considerable budget allocation, which, however, is in the hands of a politically led and controlled management. That is the real picture of television and Basque public radio today, which unfortunately differs little from what it has been since its creation, whether they like it or not, bothers them more or less. And I am not talking here about the professionals who work in EITB, whom we respect much more than you, but who at this point know who is in charge and who decides in that house, and on what criteria, which, of course, have nothing to do with the professionals. EITB's professionals have been scorned for many years, putting many of them on the street, while they continue to engage with external producers who incur a substantial expense and perform jobs that would be theirs. Except on occasion, political decisions have always been imposed on decisions and professional criteria. The public service function of EITB has been at the service of the political conveniences of the PNV, and the result is that today we have a public television that costs a lot of money, which is clearly aligned with the positions of the PNV, which is not a reference and which has the audiences it has. Because the political, the political interest of the PNV, has always been imposed on any professional issue. And we have another sample of that, the last one: EITB hires demoscopic studies and makes the projection of its results a bulwark of its programming in recent weeks. How does it make sense, Mr Lehendakari, for Basque public television to spend such money on surveys? What is the point of Basque public television contracting with companies to carry out demoscopic studies when the Basque Government has instruments that already carry out these works? Do you find it decent that public television spends money on surveys and at the same time is firing staff? What is the reason for this demoscopic anxiety of EITB's leadership? What are the professional reasons behind these surveys?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u24	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Llanos, for another occasion I leave the debate on what is political use, political criteria, political control and political instrumentalization since its creation, without professional criteria, hiring external producers, of a television at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party. I leave that debate for another time, so that we can do so also in relation to what was the last legislature, in which you also had responsibility for government. And also, I suppose, with regard to the hiring of external producers, etc., etc., which you mentioned in your accusation to the Basque Nationalist Party. In any case, returning to what you are asking, Mrs Llanos, the criteria for implementing this initiative have been made known by the EITB itself: to provide proximity information, to focus on topical issues, and to deepen public opinion on social issues such as education, relations with children in the family, or the domestic economy in Euskadi. And as for the polls on voting intent, look, they are common in all the media, and, in fact, only since last December 20th elections, at least forty different polls have been published. And all these surveys have spread widely in the media, also in the Basque Country. Many have been commissioned by the means themselves. And it makes sense for the media to charge, conduct, and publicize these surveys, and it makes sense for EITB to be able to do so too. So, you know, I don't know, Miss Llanos doesn't participate in the decisions made by reporters at the EIB, and officials. As to the cost of these decisions, EIB's own economic management and the evaluation of the invested money. The Administration Council, and even this legislature, offers you a great deal of means to keep track of these decisions and managements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u27	Mr. Urkullu, let's not be fooled. It does not respond to an EITB interest. The PNV seems to be very concerned about the upcoming election results, and everything points out that, once again, the PNV has decided to use EITB for its own benefit. This time as a sociological prospector, doing a job that would pay the Basque Nationalist Party out of its own pocket, and making an interested use of the survey. Because the value and validity of a survey depends on the form and uses of that data, and, of course, EITB is making an interested use of the survey, and always in favour of the Basque Nationalist Party. You were talking about money. Is EITB left with economic resources? What can the workers of that house think when a few months ago they went to the street because there were economic difficulties? Or what can you think when there is a judgment that you have to comply with to return 5% to them and that however it is not complied with due to lack of economic resources? Do you really believe that among the functions of EITB is conducting surveys? Doesn't the Basque Government have any other means and tools to carry out this work? They are capricious and interested decisions, which cost money to all Basques, and are a disgrace to the EITB itself, and to enlarge the slab it has had since its creation. Pay for the campaign with your money, and do not use EITB as a strategy support. Because, besides being expensive, it's intolerable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u28	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Llanos, what I think really bothers you are the results of the surveys. Not the surveys, but the results of the surveys. Look, this is an EITB initiative. EITB's information services raised the desirability of having their own information that would provide a closer vision, focusing on the social and political perspective of Basque society. And this is the origin of this EITB Focus initiative. Mrs Llanos, if you think that EITB works as it has worked or can work Spanish Television, at the impulse of a People's Party policy, then look, I tell you no. The deployment that you quote, the fact that this study has been made known through all the media of the EITB group, is actually the best proof of your informational interest. Look, I have told you before in Basque: you have representation on the board of directors and also on the EITB Monitoring and Control Committee in this Basque Parliament, and in these bodies you can request and obtain all the information relating to this Focus EITB initiative, you can put forward any proposals you consider appropriate for the future. So, as far as the contents of the research and the results are concerned, the Eusk0 will be able to read and study them like all other research. And all the information we have about this is information published or published by EIB himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the congressman of theUPyD team has made to the president on the investigation of fraud advertising." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr Lehendakari, about two years ago we politically denounced the use of public money by the Basque Government to benefit media related to the Basque Nationalist Party, and to buy news. Certain media outlets were even paid for certain interviews to be published to members of the Government, an extraordinarily serious thing in any democracy. The Basque Government initially denied the facts. What we did was file a complaint, a complaint to the courts. The crimes under investigation are extraordinarily serious; we are talking about misappropriation of public revenues, fraud against public administrations and prevarication. There is then the first charge, in particular the charge of the Director of Communication of the Basque Government. What is the reaction of the Basque Government to this first accusation? What it does is to put it back somewhere else in the Basque Government, which is obviously another fraud and another insult to the citizenry. There are more due diligence, more imputations. The next appointment is scheduled for June 20. Two new accused persons from the Basque Government, six persons already accused, six persons already investigated for the alleged purchase of news from related media; use of public money, therefore, for the benefit of the Government itself. Extraordinarily serious facts that are being investigated. What opinion do you deserve, Mr Lehendakari, all these facts? Do you recognize the facts? Have you learned anything? Are you going to apologize? Are you going to cooperate with the justice system? Are they going to stop all the defendants, or are they just going to put them back, as they did with the first of them? How are they gonna react? What lessons have you learned? Will they continue to laugh at the citizens in the face of these facts? How are they gonna react? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Mr Maneiro, your question relates to the opinion that the Basque Government deserves the work being done by an investigating court in connection with a complaint that you submitted. That case, as you well know, originates in a parliamentary debate that you have brought to justice. It was his right to do so and, of course, he can continue to parliamentaryize the previously judicialized. But this Government is not in favour of making political readings of judicial proceedings, and even less so when they are still at such a preliminary stage. Because it may make sense to value a judgment, but it is in no way meaningless to value previous proceedings, which is the stage in which this case is at the moment. The head of the court to which you have referred is doing exactly what an investigating court has to do when a complaint is filed, nothing more or less. The same is being done by hundreds of investigative courts every day in countless judicial parties throughout the Spanish State. And this Government respects the performance, the diligence that all these investigating judges are doing, as it cannot be otherwise; it cooperates with them, as it is in this case, whenever it is required to do so, and what it does not do is subject them to public scrutiny, nor subject them to public debate. It respects the performance of the judges, cooperates with them in all that is required and waits for their pronouncements, then, in their case, issue their opinions on the particular.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u34	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u35	The lehendakari is afraid to answer. Because it's obviously a very serious fact, and we don't know how it's gonna end. You all end up being blamed for buying news. This UPyD complaint does not originate in a parliamentary debate. It is based on evidence that the Basque Government has drawn public money to buy news and subsidize related media. That is the origin of the complaint, not a parliamentary debate. Because there are parliamentary debates every day. In other words, we note that the Basque Government commits a number of very serious crimes, and we therefore file the complaint. This is what UPyD has done. When the first charge occurred, what you did was change the position of this accused person. This is a shame and an insult to the citizens. Change of post, to try to deceive public opinion. What are you going to do with the other five defendants? Aren't you going to do absolutely nothing? Aren't you going to stop them? I ask you to cease them, because they are being investigated for a violation of the law in force, and this is extraordinarily serious. Right now, the cause has been declared to be of special complexity, with which there will be proceedings that will last for months. What will happen if one of you ends up being charged, Mr. Erkoreka? Because they are not collaborating with justice, they are not collaborating as they should with justice. They pass the hot potato, deny the facts, say they have no responsibility, and so the matter of one member of the government passes to another member of the Basque Government, until it touches you. And you should face the facts, acknowledge the facts, ask forgiveness and collaborate with justice. This complaint, I say, does not originate in a parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, you have a version, a version that you have taken to the judges, that you have reflected in your complaint and that you expect justice to welcome. Of course, the question from that moment on is: once you have filed that complaint, why do you insist on parliamentaryizing what you have already placed in the judicial orbit? You expect justice to endorse your thesis, your version of the facts. The least you can do, I believe, is to respect the performance of the judges and wait for them to pronounce. What's wrong with this judge? Don't you like how you're doing the instruction? Do you suspect her? Or do you want to exert political pressure on her? Do you want media headlines to accept a thesis that influences her? Is that respecting the independence of the judiciary? You ask whether you consider the Government to have complied with the Institutional Advertising Act. It has always considered that it has operated with a possible interpretation, among possible ones, of the Law on Institutional Advertising, exactly as many other administrations that fall within its scope are doing. But the problem, you should know, it's not that. The problem in this case – you have opted for criminal jurisdiction – is whether or not that law has been violated, not that law, but the legal-penal rules, which is another issue. You ask about the defendants. All the accused have consulted the Ethics Committee, and there are express pronouncements of the Ethics Committee on each and every one of them. All of them. Therefore, there is a position that I believe clearly answers your question. Mr. Maneiro, one day we will bring here the list of persons you have condemned from this rostrum without trial and without evidence of any kind, many of them later exculpated by the judges and courts who have known of the cases, sometimes for acquittal, and in other cases, many also for dismissal. The list is long, frankly. You have dedicated yourself here to convicting with impunity hundreds of people who have later been exculpated by the judges. And I can assure you that it does not reflect a very positive image of you as a Democrat committed to the defence of fundamental rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u38	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Intertermination by Daniel Mazzu Perez EH collect members of the team to the president, about the regulation made by the Spanish State to regulate power consumption." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr President, and good morning, chief of departments. We do not here dispute for the first time about the regulation of the Spanish State around the electricity car consumption. In fact, on the 29th of October, 2015, we had a discussion in this Chamber, and another legal proposal was accepted. During this discussion, almost all of us agreed that the regulation introduced by the Spanish State in force was fatal, as well as for the promotion of innovations, as for the separation of electricity. And, of course, although they wanted to regulate self consumption by this decree, they were ultimately prevented from establishing a new self-consumption, by establishing a new tax, a new tax known by the name of impostosto al so; which, as to personal self-consumption, was absolutely forbidden the common self-consumption. So it was a regulation made in the proportion of Endesa or Iberdrons, and it is a decree to regulate the self-consumption of the Spanish Common-wealth at this moment. We agreed to five points in the discussion. In the first place, the Spanish State was making a specific request. In this request, or we asked him to abandon the royal decree which had been established in force for the power of the power-cart to commit the consumption of electricity. But on the other hand, there were two direct and precise appeals to the Eukong, which, for the time being, neither one nor the other have not been fulfilled. First, it was required to bring a report to this Chamber in six months' time, by examining, on the one hand, which was the effect of the state's established regulation here, in the Esunomia Erdi, as far as the electrical auto-consumption was concerned, and on the other hand, what was the chance here to develop a special regulation made by the State in order to avoid the regulation made by the State. And there was also a second demand, that the Euscalal organization of energy might increase and expand the subsidies which it now supplies for retractable energy, in order to resist the consequences or additional costs which this royal decree may have. And, as we know, neither of these has been fulfilled since the other proposition had been accepted, as it was, six months ago. The government didn't bring any reports here, didn't tell us what's the right influence, didn't tell us what's the chance here to develop a proper regulation. And the financial aids with the Basque Organization of energy remain as they are. In fact, what the Government has done is to say in some places that this decree is very bad, but it has done nothing to prevent the consequences of this decree. In this case, too, as it happened in other parts of energy and other parts of it, there is a face and a face of B. He protects a proposition as well as a "A" with his face, saying that this decree must be abandoned. With that face the chief physician himself, in this case, says that in this case the House of Industries, that this decree is very bad for self-consumption, and that he makes a bet, or so I understood that it was only for the self-consumption and the distribution of production. That's the face A. But then, with the face B, he doesn't say what the origin of the decree is. And this decree is the origin of the reform of the electric sector supported by the voice of Madrid's PNV. That's B's face. But there are other examples of face A and Face B. For instance, in public documents. In this Euko MUKM, she says that in my maximum strategy self consumption is good, and that's supposed to be encouraged by a public document, which is said to be, but then we see on B's face, in the records made by the Basque Organization, and in the records that are sent to the State, there are other things that are said. As I said, in the neurotic strategy, it is said to encourage self-consumption, because it is good for an electric model, and in short, it is an initiative to encourage. But then we read the reports that are sent to the State, when this decree of self-consumption was required, and we can read these things: "The consumer connected to the network and accepted to self-consumption benefits from the system's support; it is therefore reasonable to pay for that support." That is precisely the argument that Mr Soria, the Spanish Minister of Industry, has taken to put a back-up (bad call for back-up) to self-consumption. That is, in addition to paying for access to the network, a surcharge is paid for using solar plates and not using the network. That is the argument he has taken, and that is what the EVE has in its report. But the EVE says more: "These tolls can be considered to be conceived of a reasonable logic." Reasonable why? And he ends up saying, "You have to be aware that, since electricity generation in small installations is normally more expensive than in centralized installations...". Dude... Face we have to have to re-assess energy costs without taking into account the environmental variable, because if we take the environmental variable into account it would not be more expensive. But well, says the EVE that it is more expensive in small facilities than in centralized facilities. "The sum of back-up tolls higher than access and a cost of energy produced higher than production in the electrical system will result in a cost of energy higher than the current one." He therefore says that it is logical to put a back-up cost, a back-up tax, and that this will increase self-consumption. And that is the report that is sent to Madrid. And this is what we don't accept. If you say with your face that self-consumption is to be encouraged and that the regulation made by the Spanish State is harmful, why do you send it, with your face B, saying that a report is right to establish that tax or overstatement to Madrid? What's your real face? That's what we want with this interaction. Are you going to encourage self-consumption just as this congress agreed to? You'll bring a report and make a suggestion to make a new regulation, like this example that I once put on 'Zantya', and I repeat it again, just like that of Murcia? I don't think Murcia is a paradigm of independence, but in this case it's ahead of us. And he has made a special legislation to avoid the regulation of the state, and he has also for the moment the consent of the Constitution of the United States to do so. And where are we in the reorganized energy area in order to promote self consumption? A face or B face? So, what's the exact sizes that Eukong's gonna put on to promote electrical self-consumption? I'm assuming that Mrs. or the president will answer to me and that's why I'm telling the chief physician that he really thinks it's all right and that it's logical to put an extra peseta into the self-sumption? For not using the network? The ones who make self-consumption because they're consolidators? That's the end and the argument for this piece. Is that what you're thinking, like EVE says in his records? Well, these are the questions that seek the end and answer of this interference.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u40	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. I'm sure it's yours, Mrs. Tapia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. All the presidents, chiefs, and members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Mazezu, yes, I'm here with my face and it's my turn to answer, but before I start to answer directly, I'd like to make certain things clear. For perhaps there is a mixture, and thou must know, and I think thou knowest, that the King's decree was not the only one, but that two kings had settled down, and that these two kings had given different provisions and answers. And when you look at them, you can understand what EVE said and that's what I'm going to do from the beginning. Therefore, the Basque Government made two different allegations to proposals for real decrees to regulate self-consumption, one in 2013 and the other in 2015. The allegations submitted in 2013 respond to a draft royal decree establishing the regulation of administrative, technical and economic conditions for the provision of self-consumption electricity and self-consumption production. That's what I was saying. It was referred by the Secretariat of State to the National Energy Commission on 18 July 2013. And then other different allegations were referred in 2015 in response to another draft royal decree, sent by the Secretariat of State to the same commission dated 2 June 2016. Both allegations are absolutely aligned, though, if we do not analyze what each of the decrees says, if we do not analyze that they occur in a really different context, they can be considered absolutely inconsistent. But you have to read the two decrees and the two situations to understand well what is said in each case. I have to clarify, in case it wasn't clear last time, but I think it was, and also as you well say... Momentu Honetan, 3E2025 strategy lantzen ari gara dakizun bezala, eta espera dugu, henera, ekainerako guztiz landuta egotea. Bertan exaten dugu, eta strategy bezala jartzen da, autocontsugaren alde egingo de la éta hainbat neurri ezarriko say the strategy horren menpe. Therefore, as the Basque Government, we are absolutely in favour of consumers, both individuals and groups, being able to generate their own electricity, and of self-consumption without red tape or additional taxes. Let's be clear about that. We believe that self-consumption should be regulated, of course, and that self-consumers should pay for the availability of the power grid at certain times, when they are not able to arrive with their self-consumption. Usually, those who commit self-consumption use the power of the wind or the power of the sun, and when it is not, they come to the net. That's what they do if they don't have a special battery like that, which today is pretty expensive, and generally not used for self-consumption. So what we're saying is, if those who do self-consumption are to be connected to the net for a moment, they're going to have to pay a certain amount for that sleep in the net. And in other cases, perhaps, they are creating more electricity than they need, and send it to the net, so we think that the connection must be paid in some way. Why? Because if not, we'll have to pay all of them. That costs, what we do every day, even those who do self-consumption must pay in some way. We therefore believe that we must avoid any overruns, because we have the experience of the case of the tariff deficit which has arisen as a result of poor regulation and uncontrolled use of photovoltaic production in the Spanish State and which, among other things, Basque society is paying and is going to have to pay for many years. Therefore, to avoid this situation we say: to the extent that the self-consumer connects to the network, either because it needs energy or because it has generated more, it must pay for that situation. We have to bear in mind that the structure of third party toll access to networks (called ATR) at the time the 2013 allegations were made was quite different from that of 2015. Why? Because the payment that the self-consumers had to make for connecting to the power grid was made under absolutely different circumstances. And I'll explain myself. Following this shipment to the National Commission in July 2013, the Basque Government made the corresponding allegation on 1 August 2013, but an order revising access tolls was adopted, applicable from 3 August 2013. This order increased the power term in access tolls, and also reduced the energy term. I know they are technical terms, but ultimately, the net effect of this change meant that for an average consumer the effect was practically non-existent, and for those who did self-consumption it became very small and it was almost the same as the situation of those who did not generate or were not self-consumers. Therefore, the self-consumer connected to the network at that time became available to the network under the same conditions as any other that did not perform self-consumption. He wasn't penalized. That is, between the decree of 2013 and the decree of 2015 there is this order that absolutely changes the situation. Therefore, the allegations made in July 2013 need to be understood in this area (July 2013), and in August this order is put into effect that makes the situation absolutely change. Therefore, in this situation, and since the self-consumer paid – let's say – what he had to pay for connecting to the network, he should not be subject to additional costs. Since already for the connection to the net – I repeat to insist, for cases of need of energy or for the emission of that excess energy – the access toll exists, we consider that, of course, the appropriate conditions are given for the development of self-consumption from the point of view of the toll, and under no circumstances should a new toll called a back-up toll, or one that you called a sun-taxed toll, be imposed. And therefore, following the presentation of the new draft decree in 2015, finally approved as Royal Decree 900/2015, the Basque Government requested its withdrawal, through a letter addressed to the National Commission on Markets and Competition. Therefore, when we were talking about all those actions and all those sentences that you have read, we were referring to the first decree. Following the change in the situation, we believe that no further administrative restrictions should be imposed, and we therefore call for the immediate withdrawal of the decree. And, in addition to requesting the withdrawal of the decree, the PNV parliamentary group signed in Madrid, together with other parliamentary groups, that electric self-consumption should develop without these tolls and without this new situation. Cómo nos encontramos hoy? "Ed hace referencia a propositionio que se aprobó en Parlamento, y por qué no se realliodo eseforme." Why haven't we made that report in the last six months? Because at this moment we think that we will have to make all the demands and all the new decrees that will be accepted on June inside the most neurotic strategy. So that's why we didn't bring it here right now, thinking it'd have to be done after the strategy. And there is one last thing you mentioned: That EVE had to put more money in order to get rid of the consequences of this decree. That's impossible. Why? If we were to put a subsidy of this Autonomy Union scholarship, automatically because the Board would say that can't be done. Por qué? Porque en momento generamos una competecia y la Comision de Comparencia automatevaría un recurso que nos impedioría hacerlo. This type of aid, like those we are working on for large consumers, must be done in another way and at the level of the whole State, or by agreement of all the autonomous communities. But you can't just settle in one. What we are working on is that, as a development of this energy strategy, one can establish one's own rules and a form of self-consumption that is different, and that allows us to regulate it without those possible resources that can be brought in by various organs of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. It's gonna be my problem, Mrs. Tapia. It's gonna be mine. But I find it hard to understand what you wanted to explain to me. You wanted to contextualize the different moments in which these allegations are made and that, therefore, they should not be understood as a support for the tax system that is currently under way for self-consumption at the state level. But it is that I read – regardless of what was done in 2013, and it is true, that there was still a lack of regulatory development that was made later – that the EVE literally said: "The consumer connected to the network and welcomed to the self-consumption benefits from the support given to it by the system. Therefore, it is reasonable for you to pay for that endorsement. Back-up tolls will slow down the development of self-consumption in relation to the current situation, in which these tolls do not exist. However, it can be considered that these tolls are conceived of a reasonable logic." This, it is said in 2013 or it is said today, remains to support the sun tax, to support that, in addition to the access tolls – because we all pay them, whoever has the plate or who does not have it – a back-up toll must be paid. But are you in favour of that back-up toll then? I don't think you can be in favour of a back-up toll that involves telling a person who puts a plate that is an insolidary; because, while he is not consuming from that network – which produces by coal, gas, nuclear... – while he is producing in a clean way, there is a system that gives us all service that must also be maintained. And since he's an insolvent, he has to pay a plus. That's the back-up toll, and that's what exists today, and that's what the EVE comes to say that it's logical and okay. We can't understand it, and it's the reading I make of your explanations. But it is also said that, if above there is a net balance that is positive (i.e. if I produce with my self-consumption energy plate, but at certain times of the day when I don't need to pour it into the net), I have to pay. But why, if I'm giving it to the network...? Of course the network gives me a service, but I am giving the system a clean energy, which above is produced in a much more efficient way than in the centralized way, because it brings the place of production or generation of energy to the place of consumption. And on top of that I have to pay more to do it in a more efficient and cleaner way? I don't understand why that spill to the net has to be done. However, with the current legislation there is no net balance sheet, it is directly prohibited. It's not that I have to pay more to pour into the network; it's that it's forbidden. On top of that, because I'm consuming on a plate, I have to pay a back-up toll. That's the situation. And, if you say that you are against the actual decree of self-consumption as it is today in the Spanish State, it is not to be received that you make reports and send reports that say that the back-up toll has its reasonable logic. And that's what we want to go to with this inquiry, and we want to clarify it. Part one. And part two. A regulation can be made to remedy this situation. It is being done, and there are autonomous communities that are moving. She's been a pioneer, Murcia, and we've said so. She has been a pioneer because she has already had a constitutional court order endorsing the new legislation she has made. What have you done? He has simply considered – even though it is not materially real – solar plates as isolated installations, to skip the possibility that this toll will be applied to them, and they are doing so. And here what? Six months ago there was a non-law proposal asking for a report, precisely to know what possibilities we had. Now you tell us that you want to complete the development of the energy strategy. Sounds like an excuse. Sounds like an excuse. That report could be made. Just as reports are sent saying that the back-up toll is okay, reports can be made to see how legislation can be skipped, or at least how the effects of that legislation can be mitigated. And then, tell me you can't put in financial aid to mitigate the effects... There is no reason to put in the help that is to alleviate the effects of the decree! Aid is simply being increased because the cost of photovoltaic installations for self-consumption has now increased. Simply, what was asked in that proposal was to increase these aids; not to say exactly that this was done in order not to comply with the self-consumption decree, which is what we would like!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mazetu, time is up. I'm happy to hear it, Mrs. Tapia, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u45	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Firstly, Mr Maeztu, we do not report to the ministry or the national commission; we make allegations to decrees, which are different things. Secondly, the issue of backing you will understand it or you will want to understand it in a certain way, but it is quite clear. When someone does self-consumption, they have two ways of doing it: one, which has solar or mini-wind plates and has batteries, with which it is an absolutely isolated system, or which is not. And in most cases it isn't. And if it isn't, when there's no sun or wind that person who makes self-consumption has to connect to the network, because at that moment he'll want electricity, I say! Then you'll have to pay for taking electricity, for taking power from that network, just like you take it or I take it. Right? Good. Then that's what we're saying it has to happen. That if it's isolated, it's isolated, and it doesn't need to connect to the network. If you connect to the network to absorb energy at a time when it is not generating, you will obviously have to pay for that energy at that particular time, and we will know how many kilowatts and under what conditions, and you will have to pay an access toll and a backup. That is support: support the system that is not autonomous. It's clear. Secondly, in our view, if more is generated than is consumed, it is necessary to pour into the network. In our opinion it can be poured out, so we do not agree with the decree, among other things. If it can be spilled, there are two types of performances. One, pay for the access of that energy to the network that already exists, and that must be subscribed as it is subscribed anywhere. Another thing is that fees can be set – as they also exist – for renewable energy, and then the electricity company, or the network, will pay the self-consumer for that energy that is producing by a renewable medium. But let's not confuse things, they are two absolutely different topics: one is the connection, and the other is what canon we set as a subsidy because you are generating renewable energy. It's two different things, we don't tie them up. And we still think that those people who are exercising self-consumption, if at one point they need the support of the network because they are not generating energy, they have to pay for it. And if they are emitting or pouring more energy into the network, because they do not consume it absolutely, they obviously also have to pay. Another thing is that they have subsidies because they are generating renewable energies. They are absolutely different things, and we are in favour of each and every one of them. And as far as the 2015 decree is concerned, the Basque Government is absolutely against it at the moment. We call for your withdrawal as it is right now. That does not mean that we are not going to establish new legislation, not those aids that you are talking about. Because on other occasions, without going any further yesterday, you tell us that we have to be absolutely rigorous with all the help and all the aid decrees that we establish, and now you tell me to do it that way, to cheat... What are we left with? Are we legal, transparent and rigorous, or only when it suits us? For this government will be rigorous, transparent and absolutely loyal to what it is doing, always. And in this case it will also be, and that is why it will analyse whether it is possible to implement legislation and under what conditions. But not to set us up in solitary. We're never gonna do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpologies made to the president by Préli Priente Euscal Sociaria, a member of the board of the billing system, on political measures agreed to fulfill the budget. " Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u47	President, ladies and gentlemen, lehendakari. In March, I went up to this rostrum to ask you a question on the basis of how the collection was already going in the first two months of the year. I asked him what measures his Government had planned so that the collection, which was already beginning to be negative in relation to the forecasts, could become a collection more in line with those forecasts. I would say that in March of this year the alarms were already on, and I believe that, recently released June of this year, it can be said that that alarm on has become a fire alarm. Because in these first four months of the year, in this quarter, things have gone much worse. They were bad in the first two months of the year, but they were worse in the first four months of the year. Today, out of every 100 euros expected to grow over the previous collection, it is collected below, i.e. there is a 0,3 % decrease on the forecasts made for the same period. In January and February, a third of what was planned to be collected was raised, two thirds were stopped, but in this case, when March and April have already passed, we find ourselves with a decrease of 0,3 %. I would like to recall that the planned collection to which we do not reach was designed by the Basque Finance Council; it was done by those who have the capacity to do so, by those who have data, by those who have instruments. Therefore, it was also done from a perspective, let us say, monocolor, without any influence of any other political option. There have been times when the Basque Finance Council has been plural and there may have been more rivalry and more debate on how to make revenues or certain objectives, but in this case it was all the Basque Nationalist Party. That is, they are supposed to have acted with more unity of opinion than on other occasions. However, on the basis of what has been planned and what is happening, I believe that there are already many people who are beginning to wonder whether the Basque Finance Council is an appropriate body for forecasting, and whether it actually makes forecasts on the basis of the data it handles, or whether it does so by some slogans that may follow other political criteria, but not by the rigour with which such forecasting should be established. The difference between what is planned to be collected and what is actually being collected is a very important, very sensitive difference, and therefore there are reasons to think that something is failing, and it is suddenly failing. I suppose, lehendakari, that you will share with me that we are not facing a minor problem, and that what does not improve, usually gets worse. And, therefore, we are at a time when, in our opinion, we need to make some decisions. I suppose you also share that we are facing a country problem. We are not facing a problem of a sectoral nature, of a specific nature, but we are facing a problem which affects all government action, all the political, economic and social commitments that this Parliament and its Government have made to Basque citizens, and therefore we are really facing a country problem. And we have to think about what measures can be taken. Sometimes it gives the impression that budget collection is like a mystery, it is something that it is very difficult to get to know why, the causes, the reasons for that behavior. And I think we have to try to keep this from becoming a mystery. I think we have to try to prevent that from being just a problem of the estates, because it is indeed a problem of politics. And to that problem that completely affects all the commitments that you have made and that your Government has made with the citizenry, obviously we are not strangers. We too are concerned. We too have made commitments to these budgets, we have also made commitments to citizens, and therefore we feel not only legitimate to ask in this way, but that we also feel obliged (with an ethical, political obligation) to ask to know what is going on and so that some measures can be taken at a time when, in our opinion, it is already late, and when the things that we are seeing and that we are knowing and that are coming to us about government action do not like us very much. Therefore, as today's collection should be a priority problem for your Government, what we are asking you to do is to put yourself at the forefront of this problem, to face it, and to tell us exactly what is going on and what you intend to do to resolve all this. We are back in this rostrum because, if two months ago the collection was bad, right now things are very complicated. And then you called for us to let go of time, not to be alarmed, that two months weren't enough to see a collection journey, that we would do it later. Well, it's been four months, and right now, as I said before, there are no more alarms on, but there are alarms on. And, therefore, what we cannot do is to attend to news that comes to us from different institutional representatives (also from you, also from your Finance Advisor, also from some deputy general, such as Bizkaia) that are orientations rather towards resignation, towards laziness, to empty words to make decisions. Because the problem of collection today is not a problem that we have to prioritize spending, we have to act rigorously... Well, that's what you always have to do with spending, what happens is that to spend first you have to have. And what you cannot ask, as Mr Gatzagaetxebarria has done, is that "Well, let's wait for the summer", which gives the impression that it is more a tacticism to see if this House is dissolved and the elections are already called, and there is not this control of the House on a problem that the summer, with the heat alone, will not fix. But what is not possible is to meet criteria such as those of the deputy general of Bizkaia, who says that sidewalks and roundabouts can wait, as if sidewalks and roundabouts were not public investment, did not create employment, and employment was not a social policy. And when you say that social policies are shielded and guaranteed, that's not true. Because employment falls if investment falls, and, therefore, that great and necessary social policy falls too. Therefore, I see you doubtful, I see you wanting to buy time, I see you wanting to cover up the reality of the collection with motivations and reasons that have no political validity, that do not in themselves constitute any instrument of political action. And you know that self-government gives us extraordinary tools. It gives us tools to collect, and it gives us tools to invest. The skills give us a lot of capacity in politics. I think we're at a really critical time; I don't know if emergency, but really critical. As the collection is going on, this year it could end up with 700 or 600 million less collection on what was planned. That is to charge practically all the investment. That implies that this Government should leave blank what its policies of action have to be. Look, I understand some things that are going on in Euskadi. In Euskadi, where collective bargaining has been lost and not enough work has been done to recover it, it is clear that wages have fallen. Wages that fall are wages that pay less taxes. Precarious jobs pay less taxes. Investments that are not completed, because sometimes investors are not given facilities, move less money. There is little incentive for spending and for savings money – which is currently dead in banks – to be in the productive economy, in investment. This is not stimulated either. Finally, there is a lot, an endless number of political measures that could be done by this government and that could be done by this Parliament, and I am pointing out to you some of them. Therefore, what I am asking you to do is to move on to political action from resignation and laziness with which the problem of collection is being addressed. There's probably still time. Not much longer, but there's still time. Things can still be done. It is not possible to trust everything if private investment with no knowledge of who will accumulate money, and will then be able to develop an innovation policy and a policy related to certain investment groups. Look, it's up to us the public economy, and everything that comes from the private economy and collaboration, extraordinary, but it's up to us the public economy. It is up to us to make public economic policies that allow, through investment, through expenditure, to make more collection, to move resources more, to move the economy more. And that requires a shock plan. A shock plan that is no longer resident in budgets, but in a new political action, which I hope someone will explain here today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u48	Thank you, Mr Price, time is up. Mr. Gashhousevary, your word is to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u49	Thank you, Mrs. President. Thank you, Mr Price. It is true, as you say, that you fulfil your political and ethical duties. That's the work of opposition. You know we've agreed to your political side in the 2016 Prejugations, and even in the past years. You've played political responsibility from the Social Party. And we're grateful from the government to you for the political attitude you've kept, and it really helps me to make the Hadadictics and to set them in motion for the measures of political economy. But we have to put the situation in a context. You see, at this moment two historical regions are in the position you have mentioned, in the negative position of collecting money from the standpoint of the negative. The other one's in a very good shape. Secondly, if you consider the measurements of the last four years in the four months of the four months, that is, at the end of April, at the end of 2012, and in April 2013, in April, in the yearly measure of the year when he came down, compared with the year before. And then the year ended in another situation. On the other hand, he watched the collection last year, and how it ended in a worse situation. What do I want to tell you about that? Well, I want to tell you a couple of things. On the one hand, we have indirect taxes which are established in the usual manner and stable. Two other kinds of taxes, connected with indirect taxes, but adapted to the state, are collected every three months. Three, that the tax upon the rent of physical persons has a permanent portion of it, but that it pays a great deal once a year, and that there is nothing to say about it. In the present case, in the end, there is only one payment on our tax order, and at the end of July. We have to keep that context in mind. The results of four months are not deducible and decisive, because there are such results as to be considered and to be practical. Yeah, I agree with that, and we have to play resalbu, but it's not a consequence. And I told you what happened last year. On the other hand, what's going on? In the collection of money taxes and retrogrades the rhythms of the census differ from those of historical territory. And then again, in certain taxes, the periods of year are different, e.g.: this period of the year for paying the rents of physical persons begins sometimes in April, and sometimes in May. Then we must also consider these elements and the correct factors. On the other hand, what's happening in the state of physical beings? The appendages go well, the profit over the labor of physical persons has a good evaluation, while the profits of the capital of physical persons are not, on the other hand, negative. As far as the administration is concerned, what's going on? Ours, as I said before, is paid once a year, once a year. Exactly at the end of July. But as to the great enterprises and those that contribute much, the management of the three forum-gains, yet the rule is made by the State. And in this rule of major companies, there has been a terrible change and this change has been introduced in 2016. Where's the big corporations on the subject of incredible changes? One to the guy's fall. Two, minimum payments are gone. Three, the division of the revenues is no longer necessary to enter the tax base. Four, the guy from divided payments has come down from 27% to 17%. In our rule of taxing, as is commonly the case with small and middle companies, for the great companies, which are of great bulk, have played with the rule of state, have had much importance, and not only in our case. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know the awful situation in the state. We've all seen that the fundraiser's sunk in there. This has an effect, and I shall not enter into what the state has to do within its limits, for it is not my field, and I am not going to examine it here. The state has its Chamber, its responsibility, and its government. You've seen the collection of state funds in a negative decline according to the data shown on Tuesday this week. But it's not my responsibility and I can't begin to protect it or criticize it. That's another part of it, and I have to answer the things you tell me. And as to the tribute of the addition of value, it must be said that the process which has been made on the requital has also been different in different countries; and, on the other hand, the effect of the price of energy is there. So in this context, you talk about our commitments as far as the budget is concerned. Well, look, I agree with what you say, we continue to make our policy. We sent him to the Chamber and it's published. Everyone, ladies and gentlemen, you all know how our economic management is going with data in May. It's on the web page, directed to the legislature. We're on the same level as last year. In the inversion of the rhythm we have, the policies of the model of our well-being-state, the social barrier, the health, the employment, the economy and education, are in your hands, ladies and gentlemen. Look, you know how we're doing. They're public. Mr Price, when you say, "What country policy are you doing? "Well, those who are engaged with you. What position are they in this year at the end of May? They are published, they are sent to the Chamber, and you will see the rhythm of our popular policy, our commitments, and our execution. And the transparency, of course, Mr Prinett, is a very important transparency. Transparency for inputs and transparency at expenses. And we've already published the transparency, as far as we're concerned, on the side of the funding. It's a shame and it's sent to the Chamber. You have all these data. Then, to specify the quintessence of our speech, it's important that we consider it in order to know how our management is. And the management here, in plain view, is on. In that sense, we have to keep our wits about it, it's true, we have to see it with a level of reservation. It's not reasonable, but we have practical wisdom, we have a problem. But this is where our foreign policy has been published. They are in your hands, ladies and gentlemen. We have been sending them to the Chamber this week. You can see how they're going in every area I've mentioned. It's true that our financially difficult situation has come to us, it's true that you, the Social Party, have contributed with us when you've agreed to make a stand. It is true that we are within the economic management of the European Union, and ought to maintain the financial imperturbability. And then, to bring all things together, to carry our politics forward, to maintain the financial downs, to do the efficiency of the collections of money, and to maintain their honesty and severity in managing them, it is difficult to reconcile them well. But that's what we're doing. We didn't just do it, you gave a financial and political support for the last three years, and I'm grateful for that. But we have to measure this context and the current economic area. In this sense you see what is going on in the direction of the economic policy of the European Union. On the one hand, the financial policy, the money policy, the budget policy, and the funding policy cost them a lot. We, too, in our political modesty, because we are a small people, a people equal to paranoia2 million, are in this circle. So the handling of all this has its own complication. But in the end, we're in the government and it's our responsibility. We're in minimum, and it was our political decision to manage it that way. But we are performing and executing, from the financial point of view, the great rules of endurance. And that's important: Our reputation, our credibility, our market powers as access... To keep all that. It's true that it's very difficult to reconcile everything, but it's the responsibility of the government and we're still on that line to handle and act.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u50	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u51	President. Mr. Gatzagaetxebarria, you started by saying that you understood me, that you understood the opposition work we had to do, and I want to start by telling you that I understand you and I understand the squire work of the lehendakari you do. But you can also properly interpret that there are things I cannot discuss with you, because it is not up to you to resolve them. Leading a policy of shock at the moment, in the face of the fall of the collection, is not a problem of the Treasury; it is a problem of politics, and a problem of the lehendakari, who is the leader of the Government, who is the one who has to establish the master lines of this clash of politics. And that's what's not happening right now. And that's the second time we've raised this. We did it in March, we do it now. There will be no third time, because if the collection goes like this it will be a disaster already, that there is no one to fix it. Therefore, it will no longer make sense a third time. So, I think we have to get to work. And, in fact, the first thing is clarity, and maybe you can explain some things to us, but I don't think you can just explain to us some things that you haven't, by the way, explained yet, and that's why, for example, there's that difference in collection between Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. It doesn't make any sense the difference. It makes no sense the explanation given, or the little explanation given as to why some of the taxes fall, including VAT and corporation tax. It is not clear what is happening. However, in the meantime, what is happening is that public investment is falling, public spending is falling. It was already done last year. Last year, 662 million euros were stopped investing in a bunch of policies. And this year it has also stopped investing, mainly in everything that has to do with economic development and everything that has to do with research and innovation, and in what has to do with infrastructure, which they announced a long time ago in a drum and dish that many things were going to be done that have not been done. Look, at the moment the high-speed train is absolutely stopped, also in the initiative that belongs to the Basque Government, not only in that of the Government of Spain. Donostialdea's subway is like the Guadiana, you don't know where it is. Neither does the Faculty of Medicine and Nursing (yes, there is a forecast, but you never know for when, because you don't know how you can compose that funding). The Assisted Reproduction Unit of the University Hospital of Álava has stopped in dry, without telling anything. Today, the financing of the municipalities and the outlaws, after having passed a municipal law, is in question, because the resources are not going to come from the budgets that have been made and whose direction this Government has also had, both in the forecast of the collection and in the central policies that have to be made, as well as in the volume of the expenditure of this Government, which is the vast majority of the collection. So, this is a policy of the lehendakari, this is a policy of someone who leads a country, of someone who says, "Hey, what's going on here?". Well, look, I'll tell you what's going on: the collection is dropping, and what's going on is that we have to review the entire tax policy. Because fiscal policy is failing, the efficiency of the estates to collect is failing, incentives are failing to make an economic policy, public investment is not being stimulated or private investment is being stimulated. Look, it is failing that there is no determined action by this Government to regain collective bargaining and regain purchasing power to stimulate spending more, and so there will be more VAT and other taxes. This is all happening. And it is happening that the Department of Economic Development is dead, doing nothing but conventions between each other, but it is not doing investment policy, because it lacks resources and because no one wants to put those resources. And we are committed to all of this. We are not just here to make criticism, because we are not a passive party, nor are we a witness party. We are a party of involvement in the governance and institutional functioning of this country, and that is why we have agreed on budgets and that is why we are committed to governance in different institutions. But, of course, all of this has to be in correspondence with the one to whom the leadership belongs. And, Mr. Lehendakari, it's up to you! It's just that you'd have to come out to this rostrum! But it's not about you having to go out because you're asked. No! No! You have to go out because you have to say what you can correct in economic policy, in public policy, in the collection, what you can do in this country to make it right. And in this respect he's lost, he's lazy, he's looking at the sky, and so the problems are not going to be fixed. And, look, Mr. Gatzagaetxebarria will answer me again with birds and flowers, which he likes very much and which, in fact, does well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u52	Thank you, Mr Pricee... Mr. Gashhousevary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr Price. Look, the government isn't standing, the government is hot, and it's strong to make popular politics. And you've got information because we follow you because we're handling the budgets and you've got the priority to have this information for us, and you've got a spokesman to make this policy with us. Two. On the other hand, you didn't mention it, but you'd have to know that there's a political concern for you, because there's an economic administration in the government as well. You didn't say a word about it. Economy check is on the way to the Chamber. See, examine, study, and draw the consequences. I'll tell you the consequences: we are as last yearly from the entrance and from the execution. You'll see how the investment goes, and you'll see how public consumption works. And, of course, what you have said, that the expense of the public does not refresh the economy, I must correct you there. Public Consult is important. But public consumption and public expense are different things. The public expenditure is a general concept, and the consumption has its very substance and its characteristics in the general public expense. And when you maintain public services, education, correction, edge, health policy, do you know how much public consumption there is? How many contracts? How many companies? How many providers? Do you know how many companies and how many economic actors have a connection with public consumption? How many companies are connected to public services? A lot. Isn't that how it affects the economy? Yeah, and he's got plenty. What is the popular consumption, the very essence of the concept, which is within the expense of the people? It's important. Look at the investment going on like last year. As you said afterwards, yes, there are some infrastructurees missing. There can always be something left. See what the president says: "We shall preserve the marrow of our state of well-being: politics contrary to social neglect, to promote education, health, and employment." But you forgot one thing in your mind, and we have to consider what kind of economics and regulations we're dealing with. The rules are important to maintain support. This discussion is small, but it's very modest. I mean, we're a small town, but in our case it's important. See how this matters in the state, how the collection is: not in our way, negative 0.3, but 3,6. But I'm not going in there. But see how government in the United States depends on financial influence, and what will happen in this economic management within the European Union. Politics have an enormous risk or an enormous responsibility in Spain, so are we in our territory. In the lesser, the inferior, but we too, because we are in this government. You didn't say anything about it. But that's important, and I have to tell you again that they have to be connected. I can agree with a few things when you're going to make popular policies, and we do them. See how clear and direct our economic digestion is, like every month, to the Chamber. And that's by the rules. If we get out of the law, we lose our reputation and credibility. And this is known by the two leading political parties of the state, the Social Party and Popular Party. They know that's important. And the credibility of Spain is good for all of us, even for Spain and the Basques, because we have a connection with Spain in our hundred economics. There's a big challenge. And in that great challenge there is another thing: what is to become of this year's economic management to aid Spain? And political decision to aid Spain has been taken. Spain, in order to maintain its financial endurance, requires another year's flexible career. And that's where we get in, too. That's why the management change comes in. To aid Spain in fulfilling their duties. All the things you've said, all the things I mean theoretically, to do well. And we shall see what happens in July when the heads of the States of the European Union are gathered together; for this will affect the end of the year in the last quarter of a month. And we're in there, too. All this economic context, these regulations, and the policies we're doing, is hard to combine, but that's our responsibility and that's what we're getting into the government for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u54	Thank you, Mr. Gashgabary. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interface, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Laura Garrido Knörr, made to the president about not executing investments planned at the University of the U.A.'s Hospital." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. At the beginning of this legislation Populous party brought this matter to the legislature, and at the end of the law we bring it back to the legislature. He pointed out that at the beginning of this parliamentary term the People's Group brought, through several initiatives, the issue of the University Hospital of Álava to this Parliament, and about to finish this parliamentary term – predictably in one of the last full of control – we asked about the theme of the University Hospital of Álava. Noting the slowing down of planned investments, plus the known decision to paralyse the planned assisted reproduction unit with advanced techniques, it has motivated our group to substantiate this inquiry. The question is addressed to the Lehendakari, who I do not know whether she will be able to answer this group and this Member for a number of reasons. Because we are facing an investment qualified by this government, Mr Lehendakari, as a strategy to improve Basque health. Because, as I say, it is a matter dealt with repeatedly in this Parliament, on many occasions – obviously, not always – at the request of the People's Group; where we have talked about delays, about breaches; where we have talked about how the draft has been questioned by the professionals themselves and how there have even been corrections by this government. And, especially given that Mr Urkullu is going to be the Alava candidate of the Basque Nationalist Party, we understand that a candidate for Alava concerned with the Alava issues, so we consider it appropriate that he be the one to answer some of the questions that we are going to raise in connection with this inquiry. First, we want to see the delay in the progress of this matter. And less bad that it was considered a priority! First, when this Government takes office, it is modified in the previous functional plan. The previous functional plan, drawn up by the Socialist Party team, was presented on 19 October 2011 by the previous adviser, Mr Bengoa; the director of Osakidetza, Mr Pérez Gil, and the coordinator of the functional plan of HUA, Mr Manzanos. New government, new plan. It was not enough to review some aspects that could be reviewed over the months, and seeing that some of the needs could be reviewed, but without substantially changing this functional plan. Well, well, the functional plan presented by the previous government team was, as I say, modified. This functional plan spoke of building a new university hospital in the Álava health area, of providing a hospital with subordinates to Álava. He was talking about the construction of a university hospital in Álava with several headquarters, the acute hospital that was going to be a reference model in Euskadi... He was talking about in-depth reform of the hospital's hospital building Txagorritxu... He was talking, in the new acute hospital, about a mother-child building, a surgical block, surgical ICU, surgical day hospital, technical block for emergencies and radiology..., a biohealth research institute, a teaching unit and a new outpatient care building, among other issues. But, as I say, new government, new plan, and that plan was modified. We had a version of the functional plan (because it has had multiple versions), presented in this Parliament on 22 May 2013, in an appearance that our group criticized because the counselor did not come. And that was a strategic investment and some priority for this government, but in the run-up to the new functional plan of this government the councillor did not come, and came his deputy councillor and the director of healthcare. They justified..., or this government justified itself by saying that knowledge of the information required substantial changes to the project and a new functional plan had to be made. This functional plan, this first version, was clearly questioned by professionals internally. The division of specialties between the two sites, which broke the concept of comprehensive care, and the damage caused by the transfers, was questioned. And that was an appearance in Parliament, where the various specialists appeared and told us about the condition of this functional plan and the issues envisaged in that comprehensive attention. This led this Government to rethink the functional plan. We have put forward numerous initiatives to finally arrive at the functional plan. In the end, it was presented (this time yes) by the councillor on 3 February 2014, and the councillor noted that it was the government's bet on Alava and the Alaves. He was telling us about the external consultation building, he was telling us about a hospital in two or three locations, telling us about the external consultation building... which, by the way, is awarded by this government. Yes, you practically opened it when you arrived at the government in October 2013, but it is an investment that was practically carried out in its entirety throughout the past legislature. And I remember very well, because when we agreed on budgets with the Socialist Party, this group demanded – considering the improvement of health in Álava as a priority investment – to increase the amounts initially planned for the implementation of this infrastructure. You present that functional plan, and you present it to us in Parliament as well. Of the investments made the pace is very slow, Mr. lehendakari, Mr. Counsellor – I say I don't know who will answer me; let's hope that Mr. lehendakari, being the next candidate for Álava–. We have the building of external consultations, opened in October 2013, from which, as I said, you did little: finish, finish what was planned, because the bulk of the work was already coming from before. In Txagorritxu, they have reformed the areas evicted by the external consultations on the ground floor for day hospitals, are in it, but today the day hospitals have not been opened. In Santiago, they have opened an ophthalmological centre and the major outpatient surgery has been completed in Hall A. Rehabilitation is still pending, which has begun work on the first floor of Hall B. But, Mr. Counsellor, there is still much to be accomplished. And that which you, when you presented the master plan – which also had to be required on several occasions to send us that master plan – already explained to us the execution of the project in a more detailed and more detailed way. And it goes in stages, both in Santiago and in Txagorritxu. But we see that they have practically not passed the first stage in Txagorritxu, demolishing the space that has remained after transferring the consultations. But there is no reality today at Txagorritxu hospital in that space. And in Santiago, as I say, the ophthalmological center, but neither is there any reality, far from the issues to which I have referred. To these delays, these problems are joined by the latest news: the paralysis of the assisted reproduction unit with the most advanced techniques, especially in vitro fertilization. A space had already been enabled, some of the material had been purchased... Of course, this paralysis denotes and demonstrates a new failure, and it is clearly going to be a frustrated reality for many Basque citizens, Alaves in this case, where there is clearly a critical mass. They are derived from Cruces, and we are talking about patients who have to go three or four times in a cycle, that is, in twenty days, all morning, and move, as I say, mainly to Cruces. This was an outstanding subject for the Alavesa population, to reduce waiting lists. And there is clearly, as I say, a palpable comparative aggravation for couples who reside in Alava and have problems conceiving. And I'm finishing up. And then Mr. Lehendakari tells us about fostering birth. I think those ads are just makeup to cover this government's inaction in family policies, because at the first of change they have paralysed a service that has a lot to do with promoting birth in one of the older societies. I believe that this deserves an explanation, Mr Councilman, beyond the postponement of the enlargement of the service portfolio. I don't know if it's due to a lack of will, or the fall of the collection.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u56	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Time is up. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. Mrs Garrido. Since the beginning of the legislature there have been multiple occasions when the Department of Health, and specifically the advisor – although not the only one – has presented information on Osakidetza's investment package in this House. Because I understand you're worried about Alava. As you know perfectly well, despite what you have expressed here, Alava is not discriminated against. And this House is the Basque Parliament, it is the Basque Parliament; I will therefore talk about the development of Osakidetza's investment package. And he also knows very well that we have presented several times specifically the functional plan and the master plan of the project planned for the University Hospital of Araba. It is true, as you have rightly pointed out, that at the beginning of the legislature we redrafted the functional plan that the previous government had envisaged. And we did it again because we understood, in our legitimate government responsibility, that it was oversized and that it did not sufficiently contemplate the use of the Santiago hospital space. And, by the way, we did it quite in line with what the citizenry thought. If you review the hemerotheque, you will see how pages and pages of newspapers ran in the previous legislature regarding the reorganization of the hospitals in Álava, which has not happened in this legislature. On the other hand, it is legitimate for us to reorganize a plan. In a much more trivial thing, such as the State Education Act, look at the legislatures that we carry with a law by government! Therefore, it does not seem to me a great sin. We presented the functional plan of the Araba University Hospital. I especially made it clear that we weren't planning the health of the U.A. 2014. I made it clear that we wanted to plan the health of the Arabs, but for the next 25 years. And if I am not mistaken, the other, in that respect, confirmed our agreement. We spoke then, and we continue to do so now, of a project in development; that, as for any tertiary hospital of the size, characteristics and importance of the University Hospital of Álava, reforming it by functioning – with the volume it has, with the number of workers, with the number of patients it attends – so it has its complexity. And it's the same in Alava as anywhere else. But in any case, we continue to move forward and adapt to the reality of the moment, aligning care needs and also – and we do not have to say – funding possibilities. Health systems and health policies, in all social policies, are adapted to social needs and are also adapted to the economic time of financing. We are talking about a project designed for the Alaves and Alaves of today and tomorrow, which offers quality health care and which is progressively strengthening its portfolio of services, in order to respond to the challenges of the future. A model that responds to the health needs of an increasingly ageing population. A model that, in the case of the Arab OSI, maintains hospital services for acute patients in both hospitals, according to the needs of citizens and also in consensus with professionals, while concentrating and merging and distributing its services, seeking the functionality and use of its two hospitals, Santiago and Txagorritxu. A model that is allowing a sequential execution of investments, and ongoing, according to care priorities, budget availability, sustainability of the health system. In addition to planning, it envisages the flexibility necessary to respond to any needs of the care activity, which should mark the process. A hospital, ladies and gentlemen, that is a reality that will continue to grow, as was planned from the beginning, to become the modern and functional tertiary hospital that the Alaves and Alavesa want and deserve. You all know that since the beginning of this parliamentary term we have worked continuously on this project which we have always considered strategic, priority or, if you wish, fundamental. Fundamental for Álava, fundamental for Euskadi, fundamental for this Department of Health, fundamental for this Government: to equip Álava with a tertiary hospital with a vision of the future, a hospital with a full portfolio of services and able to meet the challenges and needs. Today's the day for the University of Abaka Hospital, which is a reality, which will give more progress until it is fulfilled. For what was a health project is now a hospital needed and deserved by the Arabs. That sanitary organization is the reflection of the commitment made by the Basque and Health Department to the Society of Abaka. We've kept our word, even if there's anyone who wants to doubt it. Thus, both the functional plan and the HUA master plan presented describe a comprehensive and services-based care portfolio, both medical and surgical, which I will not list, and a top-level technological endowment, which is what it has. If you review the functional plan that we present and the subsequent master plan, please tell me on which sheet you find that this councillor or government has submitted the extension of the fertility unit in this legislature. Neither in this year's budgets, nor in the presentation of this year's priorities, nor in the master plan for this legislature. But, well, if you follow the evolution of the budgets and the corresponding closures of the budgetary exercises of the Department of Health, you will see that in the last four years more than 21 million euros have been invested in Álava: 21 million euros in the completion of the works and in the equipment of the start-up of the health centers of Salburua and Zabalgana; 21 million euros in the equipment for the building of external consultations of HUA, where with the budget of 2013, in addition to paying the finite of the work, the endowment of echocardiography, echography, laboratory robotics, autoanalysers, other technology, equipment of digital radiology, a white room of allerology, etc. was paid. As you have rightly said, the remodeling of the area of major outpatient surgery, the polyclinic and ophthalmology consultations and the new rehabilitation area at the headquarters of Santiago and the new rehabilitation pool that will go to the health center of Lakuabizkarra; a new scanner for the hospital of Santiago, the transfer and conditioning of the day hospitals at the headquarters of Txagorritxu, for the beginning before the end of this legislature, as we committed ourselves, of the new building of expansion of emergencies, intensive care, operating rooms, dilation rooms and delivery rooms. Realities. To mention also the projects of new health centers of Campezo and Amurrio that will start this year. I do not know, Mrs Garrido, whether the current and planned portfolio of services and these investment figures are what you understand, with the current reality, as not giving priority to the implementation of the Arab University Hospital project. But let me not share it. We believe in the Araban because we have people, our purpose is to give them a good service. All you have to do is look at the data. That the health department has bet on this project and that of Arabe's health sources is undeniable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u58	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u59	Well, going out to this rostrum the lehendakari had an opportunity to show his commitment to the territory of Alava, seeing that he is going to be the candidate of his party for Alava. But perhaps seeing the evidence of his performance in relation to Alavesa's health has obviously preferred not to go out to this rostrum. That's right, I'm sure we'll all be attending a purely propagandistic act in which millions will announce us, but, as we can see, those promises are broken by seeing what this executive has done in relation to health in Álava. We are talking about realities, yes, indeed, Mr. Counsellor, realities: building of external consultations inaugurated in October 2013, and the ophthalmological center. These are the realities we have in HUA today, after four years of government of the Basque Nationalist Party. You already told us, you didn't come to inaugurate works. No, the truth is that the few works it has inaugurated are heritage, of course, the external consultation centre and the two health centres to which it has referred, Zabalgana and Salburua. Man, I want to remind you that the 2013 budgets had to be extended because you did not have the necessary support to carry out the first budgets, so the budgets of this Executive came later. What do you say to me about the fundamentals of Txagorritxu, the whole building block that is pending and that was absolutely priority to continue implementing investments in Txagorritxu? What about the rehab in Santiago, absolutely pending? Look, tell me about the chronicles. You have wanted to give the chronicles another solution, but do you know what the reality is, counselor? That after four years of government of the Nationalist Party in Álava the patients of half-stay or long-stay, the underprivileged, have to continue to move to Leza, because they do not have a specific infrastructure or are not solved their specific needs of hospitalization in Vitoria, when Vitoria represents 80% of the population in the whole of Álava. What happened to the assisted reproduction unit, those advanced techniques that were planned? Man, now you're telling me you weren't in the service portfolio. Well, then you acknowledge that you substantially lowered the service portfolio provided for in the previous functional plan, right? Because if it was a matter that was planned, and you did not pick it up in the new functional plan, it is clear that your functional plan was less ambitious. But what are the reasons for paralysing a planned investment, with spaces already enabled, with professionals involved in the project, counselor, and already with purchases of concrete materials? What are the reasons? Is the reason for the lack of will? Is it when you have to adjust the first thing you touch, in this case, is Alavesa healing? Is there any money missing? Wasn't this a priority? Because when something is a priority, man, you try not to take the money away! It is therefore clear that health in Alava with nationalist governments does not advance. For the health of Alava in the last legislature we consider it absolutely priority to move forward in investments in the territory of Alava in order to match the situation of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. We've made some progress. That's right, this government is coming, and it's changing the functional plan. Of course, a new government, a new change. And you also, after making your new plans known to us – of course, there must be new plans – do not, above all, fulfill them! They go at a tortoise pace, recognized by all the professionals and by all of us who live in this city. We see him day by day! That is, that it is clear that health in Álava is not a priority for this Government, and that the first changes, when they need to be adjusted, concern health in Álava, and in this case the improvement of the assisted reproduction unit with the most advanced techniques. That is why I ask you, Mr Lehendakari, I ask you, where your bet and personal commitment to the advancement of health and the improvement of health in this territory have remained. Because, of course, in these four years of government we do not see it. I don't know if he'll make a lot of promises in the next few months.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u60	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u61	Garrido andrea, let's see if I'm any better off than I was on the previous shift, because I'd really like you to listen to me. I understand that you, rather than caring about Alava's health, have come today to challenge the lehendakari as a candidate for Alava, probably the best candidate that can be presented for Alava. But we were talking about Alavesa's health and, therefore, you are going to allow the humble health counselor to answer and attend to you, who is the one who really carries these issues, yes for the lehendakari, yes for the government. The University Hospital of Álava is a reality and enjoys very good health, and continues to grow and improve day by day, do not worry you. This was understood by the citizens in the last autonomous elections, and we will see the result in the following elections. Because in the end what matters is not your opinion or mine: what matters about how Álava University Hospital is going to be the opinion of all the citizens of Alava and Alava. Those that are taken care of every day. Those chronicles you say you don't know where they are, because they're discriminated against in Alava. And they're, they're from Álava, at the Santiago Hospital, they're at the Txagorritxu Hospital, they're in the concerted centers, some of them are in Leza... And when we do the remodeling, instead of having them scattered by the services, we'll have them grouped in a single unit, but they're served, eh! We haven't had any complaints throughout the legislature saying, "I'm a chronic and I'm not in a chronic unit, I'm in cardiology." I didn't get it. But, well, don't worry. Look, the Alavesa health, which is frankly well, has been ruled by the Basque Nationalist Party twenty-five years old, thirty-three of Osakidetza. Look at you, twenty-five of thirty-three. And the other eight, fortunately, the Socialist Party. Let's see what happens to the Alaves if it's your turn one day. It is an absolutely priority project for this councillor, for the Department of Health and for the Basque Government since the first minute of the legislature, because for us the citizens of Alavese, in addition to being a mouthpiece, are important in the day-to-day work. That's what we do. You make a frankly interested interpretation when you say that investments have been stalled. The reality, as you know, is that Álava is treated like the rest of the historical territories. Investments are prioritized over other investments, and timely and necessary investments are implemented at all times, and others are simply postponed. It's always been that way. And in this criterion is where the decision is framed not to expand at this time the portfolio of services of the assisted human reproduction unit of the University Hospital of Álava. That does not mean that the project will not be reconsidered later, which, by the way, you will not have heard this counselor say that he was going to expand the portfolio of services of the human reproduction unit of Álava. Nor does it mean that the Alavese and Alavese citizens are unattended, as it is a service provided in other centers of Osakidetza, so there is no patient or couple unattended. I'm not going to answer you about the birth, because I thought it was Perogrullo. Then I'm not going to be incarnated either. I do not know any part of the world where the problem of birth in society is dealt with by the services of gynecology and obstetrics. It is a novelty that you have contributed to this debate, which the social policy and employment adviser also consults you, because I would not be able to help you with the services of gynaecology and obstetrics to improve Euskadi's birth. Currently in the public system of Euskadi, consultations on sterility and human reproduction are offered in four hospitals of the network: one in Araba, two in Bizkaia and one in Gipuzkoa. And all the techniques are distributed according to the complexity of the population that demands them in the four centers. The most common and most demanding techniques are made in the four, and the most complex, such as in vitro fertilization, are offered at the University Hospital of Cruces and at the University Hospital of Donostia. In the case of Alava couples, after the initial sterility study, which is done here, if you are not a candidate for artificial insemination – which is also done in Araba – and a more complex technique is needed, it is derived from either of the other two centers according to the criteria of the couple, or from the gynecologist or gynecologist. You know I really like the data, and I'm going to give it to you. During 2015, 277 couples were treated in Álava (here in Álava, at the University Hospital of Álava) last year, with 614 cycles, and 197 were derived. As you can see, 58% of couples who require reproduction techniques are treated in Alava. You can also be very quiet: if you need it, the current gynaecology and reproduction unit of the University Hospital of Álava will maintain each and every one of the services currently provided. To this area are dedicated two optionals, a nurse and a nursing assistant. And it is true, we have contemplated future spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u62	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Your time is up. 9th point on the subject list: "Interadelation, the Mistto of Gorka Maniroy, a member of the President, a member of the House ofUPyD, of the disapprobation necessary for the Spanish Justice. " Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u63	Yes, thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors. One of the most serious problems facing Spain is the politicization of justice. Spain has many problems, but of course this is one of them, and surely one of the main ones. Justice in Spain is politicized. The General Council of the Judiciary, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court are politicized. It is therefore urgent to depoliticize, decolonize and professionalise it, i.e. to force the main political parties to take their hands out of the judicial bodies, so that they cease to condition justice in Spain. The Basque Nationalist Party has also participated in the division of justice and, therefore, in its politicization, as has the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party for many years. It is therefore urgent to carry out this reform, as are many others already indispensable and urgent today. The main institutions of the State are taken by the Spanish political parties following a process of privatization of all these institutions, which has ended up causing democracy in Spain to be of low quality. The General Council of the Judiciary, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, as well as the Office of the Prosecutor, are taken over by the political parties. But also the regulatory bodies: the Banco de España, the National Securities Market Commission, the Nuclear Security Council, the courts of accounts or public radios and televisions. All or the main State institutions are taken over by the main political parties. This is called, or was called at the time, the privatization of these institutions in favour of the interests of the main political parties. This politicization of everything, this claim of political parties to control everything to defend their partisan interests, has polluted everything and makes many things work very badly in Spain and, as I said before, that the quality of democracy is much better. All this must be reformed in order to regenerate politics in Spain and, therefore, also in Euskadi, since this state of affairs also affects the Basque citizens. And that is why I also, of course, ask the Lehendakari and the Basque Government about this and these issues. It takes political will to reform and regenerate all these institutions and to carry out the reforms that Spain needs. Today we read, we can read in a media media that judges number 2,000 those investigated for political corruption and demand more means. Ten judges per 100,000 inhabitants in Spain, compared to 25 European averages. Spain, therefore, has a clear problem of lack of resources, but I believe that the fundamental problem that Spain has is that there is no judicial independence. And judicial independence and the professionalization of justice is essential to fight also against that scourge of political corruption. There are dozens and dozens of cases that affect virtually all political parties. Dozens and dozens of corruption cases. UPyD has kept itself safe from all that corruption crap, all that corruption mud. We've kept ourselves clean. Since 2007, zero accused and zero corrupt: ten in transparency. Diaphanous commitment against political corruption and multiple parliamentary initiatives to fight against amigoism, opacity, corruption, mismanagement, waste and political corruption, including proceedings before the courts: Bankia case, preference case, black cards, Rat and so many others. I believe that this commitment of UPyD against political corruption is something that virtually all political parties today recognize, even if not publicly. UPyD refused to form part of the boards of directors of the savings banks, also denounced their politicization, and refused to be on the boards of directors of the various public television stations. We refuse to participate in the pie of Justice. We have advocated a number of initiatives to professionalize justice, to suppress stumbling blocks, to depoliticize the main institutions of the State and, in general, to perfect and regenerate democracy. With facts, not with words, not with smoke, not with pure cosmetics, which is what is being carried in Spain right now. With facts, with initiatives, with concrete actions, with commitment. The current system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary has proved to be a complete failure, and that failure is not really attributable to the legal mechanism itself considered, but, above all, to the inability of the Spanish political parties to leave the Judiciary out of the partisan struggle and their particular interests. The General Council of the Judiciary has been a partisan battlefield, both in the election of its members and in its functioning. And it must not be forgotten that it is a body with much power and influence, it has many tasks to develop: the report of laws in matters of judicial policy, the power to propose legislative reforms, participation in the procedure of appointment of the Attorney General of the State and the judges of the Constitutional Court, disciplinary regime and inspection..., and above all the control of promotions in the judicial career to certain posts. I mean, decide who gets up and who doesn't. The politicization of an institution with so much power has meant the politicization of the entire judicial system, which is deeply undemocratic and very negative for society as a whole. That is why they want to continue to be there the main political parties, that is why they have been there, in the General Council of the Judiciary: to condition everything and to prevent justice from being truly independent in Spain. The weaves between the so-called conservative and progressive blocs to choose positions as presidents of hearings and higher courts are something perfectly well known and publicly commented, and the vocal that comes out of those blocs comes to qualify as nothing less than transfugue. This politicization has led to a very serious deterioration of the judicial system, to the point that an international non-profit foundation recently ranked Spain 60 out of 133 in terms of judicial independence, behind countries with Namibia, Botswana, Malawi or the Gambia. We're in that situation. Really, pushing the reforms that Spain needs would not be so complicated. There are five, six, seven essential reforms that should be carried out among the main political parties and with the greatest consensus. It's a matter of political will. It's not very difficult, it shouldn't be very difficult to do it. The problem so far and still is that there has been no political will or will to carry out these reforms. Why? Fundamentally because the main political parties have ended up becoming bodies whose primary or primary role has been and is to defend their own particular and partisan interests. That is why things do not work in Spain, because the main political parties end up working that way, and instead of putting the interests of the citizens before the interests of the political parties, they do just the opposite. The new political parties, we have checked, have ended up behaving in a similar way to the old ones. It is a lie that the old policy has to be replaced by the new policy, nothing more. What really needs to be replaced is bad politics for good politics. And the good policy is to carry out all these reforms which, I say, the main political parties have not wanted to carry out by doing so. An effective, modern justice with the means to investigate everything that can be investigated and independently in the face of pressure is a counterweight that our democracy urgently needs and that civil society must demand vigorously and tirelessly. Every four years (i.e. every time elections are called), the main political parties introduce some of these reforms into their electoral programmes, as well as concrete reforms to professionalize justice. Then everything remains in nothing, everything remains the same, and nothing changes. This is what we humbly seek to help change through this inquiry addressed to the Basque Government. Obviously, this is not a matter that belongs solely to the Basque Government, which depends solely on the Basque Government or the Lehendakari itself, but I believe that from here we can also help or should help those reforms to be carried out. That is why we call on the lehendakari for the set of measures he intends to take or help to take to depoliticize justice throughout Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u64	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I am going to start my speech by taking the thought that you have given at the end of your speech. Because, indeed, your question today about the measures that you are going to take or will contribute to the Basque Government's move towards depoliticisation of justice I think it has a very significant similarity to another question that you raised fifteen days ago, in the last monitoring session, on a similar issue. The similarity did not occur so much in the material content of the inquiry itself, although both relate to issues relating to the Administration of Justice, but in the fact that they affect issues of general interest which far transcend the scope of the Basque Government's activities and the area of competence in which it operates. But with a lot of it. I have always drawn attention to that trend that you have credited throughout this legislature. I cannot believe what you have done in the precedents, because I did not share this space with you, but I have been able to see in this legislature that you have a certain tendency to put forward initiatives, to ask the Basque Government for accounts and reasons in relation to matters that are not within your competence, and also whose competence you have never claimed. Because I, frankly – and correct myself if I am wrong – do not remember seeing you ever demanding a greater competence of the Basque Autonomous Community in the field of justice. I never remember him. I do not know whether, as in other matters (this is what I know, that in other matters it does), I do not know whether you also advocate the return of powers to the State here. Maybe I do, I don't know. But I can see that this trend is taking place in you: it does not claim competition, and yet, in relation to unclaimed and untransferred competition, you ask the Basque Government for accounts and reasons, knowing that this cannot be given, because they are matters and matters which are still resident in other institutional areas. In any case, it is true, indeed, that the Basque Autonomous Community is among those which the Yuspublicists call the competent authorities in the field of justice. It is a generous expression in terms of the scope and perimeter of competition, because what is pompously called "autonomous competences in the field of justice" is in fact confined to what was originally contained in the subrogatory clause of article 13 of the Statute of Gernika, which very soon, already in the 1980s, the Constitutional Court undertook to completely denaturalize. Powers that are basically confined not to justice, not even to the administration of justice, but to what the Constitutional Court in an emblematic judgment defined as the administration of the administration of justice. More specifically, it is concrete in providing non-judicial material and human resources for the administration of justice. Of course, whatever idea you might have about what the politicization of justice is... You have made a long presentation on what you understand to be one of the pathologies of the Spanish political system, which is the colonization by the political parties of many institutions, not only in the field of justice, but whatever idea you have of what it is about the politicization of justice, it is true or it is evident that it does not manifest itself either through the material means that the Basque Government puts at its disposal (it does not manifest itself through the judicial offices, the buildings, the computer system or the computers), nor through the non-judicial personnel at the service of the Administration of Justice. The elements, therefore, the instruments managed by the Basque Government in relation to the administration of justice are precisely the least susceptible of politicization, of which they can be politicizable, of which you mentioned in your review. That is to say, you ask the Basque Government for accounts and reasons in relation to something (the politicisation of justice) which is expressed precisely in what has not been transferred to you. Because I want to assume that, if Justice is politicized, that politicization – according to you – is manifested primarily through the actions of the judges and courts, with whose professional career the Basque Government has practically nothing to do with it. And he not only asks the government to do this in Euskadi, but asks him what he is going to do in Spain as a whole. Look, far beyond our borders. Personally, Mr Maneiro, I think that the issue you raise is a complex, very broad one, which requires a calm, calm and broad-based response, as broad as possible. You have put some of the keys to what you understand to be the basis or the crux of the politicisation of justice, and I think you have made it clear that indeed the consensus that needs to be reached on this matter, the agreements that need to be reached, the discussions that need to be undertaken to achieve that goal that you mark as desirable transcend with much of what can give you an inquiry raised in an autonomous chamber that has virtually no competence in these matters. I believe that here basically, first of all, we must make a shared diagnosis, as much as possible, of the current situation. And secondly, the design – let's say – of a strategy that starts from discernment and rigour. I say this because, first of all, as far as the shared diagnosis is concerned, frankly I do not believe that the best way, the best way is to ask for an inquiry at the end of a legislature, in an autonomous chamber, as I said before, which has little competence in this matter. Finally, this can actually give you to generate some headline in some medium of communication that shows that you, candidate of your political formation to the General Courts, therefore, care about these issues (very well), but from the operational point of view and really effective, so, frankly... It can give for a toast to the elegant sun, with a very strident declaratory pronouncement of the House in one sense or another, but from an effective point of view, little more. As far as the second question, the discernment and the rigour with which this question has to be addressed is concerned, I frankly think that in your analysis of what you consider to be the politicization of justice, it refers to very different realities, and not all of them are susceptible to homogeneous treatment. Not all can be approached in the same way. The politicization of a court is not the same as the politicization of the governing body of the judiciary, which is the expression used in the Constitution to refer to the General Council of the judiciary. You mention the Constitutional Court among the politicized bodies. The Constitutional Court is not a proper part of the judiciary, but it is a very important court. I share with you the idea that the Constitutional Court is politicized, but this is so assumed that – not at the political level anymore – at the scientific level it is relatively common for the authors who deal with this issue from the point of view of public law to admit – this I have seen it written black on white – that in purity the Constitutional Court is a political body, it is a political court. What happens is that it has to be expressed through legal arguments. But his only limitation is that. As far as his appointment is concerned, you have referred to him as the determining reason for his appointment or that would justify his eminently political nature. The twelve members of the Constitutional Court appoint them: four the Congress of Deputies, four the Senate, two the central Government, and two the General Council of the Judiciary. That the mechanism is politicized? No doubt I won't deny it. I would say more to him: not only politicized, but also rabidly centralized. Because this body resolves conflicts of competence between the State and the autonomous communities, but only appoints its members bodies and institutions located in the central apparatus of the State. None, none of them are named either directly or indirectly by the Autonomous Communities. Therefore, politicized and centralized. A very different question is the composition of the governing body of the judiciary, where it makes sense that popular representation can exert an influence, a presence, since we are talking about a government function that is projected on the judiciary but that does not have to exclude citizens' representatives in the management of this issue. Therefore, here there are matters that you raise, under the general heading of "politicization of justice", which are essentially different, that must be dealt with and dealt with in a very different way. And, frankly, I believe that in the context of this inquiry, and in a chamber, I insist, with a frankly limited competence to address this issue, so we are tied in hands so that we can really swell the tooth to a problem that has a dimension and that requires a job that far exceeds us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u66	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u67	Yes, thank you, counselor. He basically told me what I assumed you were going to tell me, because, in the end, little by little we are getting to know each other, and we also know that not only you, but in general all governments are trying to say "This is not a matter that belongs to me and therefore I am not going to move a finger to try to change some things that do not depend so much on us but that really affect us as Basque citizens." If there is something that affects us as Basque citizens, it is logical to think that a representative of the Basque citizens asks the Basque Government (i.e. his government) what measures it intends to take or what actions it will try to take to change that, so that in this way the Basque citizens will be better treated, and in this particular case we can receive better justice, an independent justice, and, among other things, we will be able to fight all more and better against that scourge of political corruption, which also affects us as Basque citizens. Therefore, my obligation is to ask the Basque Government, because in this particular case it has something to say. It is not that this matter depends solely on the Basque Government, much less, but I believe that the Basque Government could do something to change things in this regard and to prevent the justice system in Spain from remaining politicised. In view of the fact that it is the Basque Nationalist Party that governs Euskadi, and that the Basque Nationalist Party has participated in this politicization of justice, and that it has done so voluntarily, it is logical to ask why the Basque Government intends to do so. This is a very important matter. In this Parliament we discuss practically everything, we discuss things that happen thousands of kilometres and that do not affect us at all (in different committees, appearances, etc.); interesting matters, picturesque matters sometimes, but that do not affect us at all. And we certainly spend a lot of time talking about those matters. How can we not speak, in a whole Basque Parliament, of the importance it attaches to the politicization of justice? How can we not urge the Basque Government to try to take action, or to bring it to the Government of Spain and to all political parties, so that they can get their hands on justice so that they can have a justice that can be considered professional and that works independently? This is one of the most important calls that have been made in recent weeks in this Parliament! Nothing more and nothing less than we are talking about justice in Spain, about the independence of justice. We are part of Spain; therefore, this is a matter that matters to us very much. You have come to say that these are matters far beyond the scope of the Autonomous Community. However, apart from everything I have already told you, I also remind you that the lehendakari is the ordinary representative of the State in our autonomous community, and therefore something will also have to be said. Because, I say, that colonization, that politicization of justice affects us as Basque citizens. Who is the Basque Government? You guys. It is therefore normal for me, as a representative of the citizens, to ask you this question. As regards matters far beyond the scope of the Autonomous Community, I doubt that. He said something like that in connection with the riggings. He came to say that the Basque Government had nothing to say about the outbursts. And it turns out that, as we checked yesterday, we know that the removal of some of the existing hindrances is the responsibility of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Therefore, with political will there are always things that can be done. Another thing is that you say to me, "This is an uncomfortable matter, because for years we have been part of the pie of Justice and, finally, it is better not to talk about it." But this is a very important matter. How the Basque Government will not be able to do anything! Much has to be said and done, and the Basque Nationalist Party and all the other political parties. Therefore, this is a matter for us. In any case, Mr. Counsellor, you are an intelligent person, with ample knowledge of the question I am asking you for. There's no doubt about it. Do you consider that in Spain justice is politicized, yes or no? What reforms would you carry out to professionalize Justice? Finally, I believe that there is a general consensus on this issue right now. Virtually no one doubts that justice in Spain is politicized, colonized by political parties. You sure have an opinion. You have to say something more than you said. It's got to get wet. He's an important representative. You have to do everything you can to change this situation. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u68	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, you didn't surprise me either. I also recognize you as an undeniable political capacity, an intelligence that I do not question (I believe no one puts you in this House), but I was not surprised, look, because I knew that you were not going to do here a radical approach of demand, of demand of all competences in the field of justice for Euskadi. I wasn't going to, was I? Because that would have been consistent with your approach. If you said, "I repeat, I claim that one can create one's own judicial power, and from there I will demand that one does not politicize Euskadi's own judicial power"... But you don't go in there. You want to seek the opinion of the Government or other parliamentary groups on a matter that is not up to this Government or this House to decide, because it exceeds – whether we like it or not – our powers. I don't abhor you... I don't know if you've given that impression, but I don't abhor you from the presentation of an initiative like this interpellation. Not at all. Besides, I totally get it. You – I have already referred to this in my first speech – are going to be a candidate for a political formation leading the Madrid list to the Congress of Deputies, and you have to appear concerned about state issues. Of course! So, you're already dialing a profile. It seems logical and perfectly understandable to me. I mean, I don't care; otherwise, I understand it perfectly. In the last question you said that I had stated that the Basque Government has nothing to say about the havoc. I – if you will allow me, I will tell you – said that the Basque Government can do exactly the same as you can. The same thing you can do. And that you are dedicated to requiring these and those, to urge these and those to do what you can do: to present an initiative here in this House so that, once processed, the Statute of Gernika can be amended and the outbursts, you and those of the members of the Government can be removed. If this is not necessary, the government will do it! You can do it, just like that! That's what he needed or what he was talking about, what made him notice in the past interpellation. And on that occasion, you will remember that I told you that I had the impression that you were acting more as a columnist than as a parliamentarian, because you like to gather the opinions of others, of parliamentary groups, of the Government, but then you do not present the initiatives that you really have to put forward so that their purposes can be carried out. He doesn't. Before, in your first intervention, you said that to eliminate the politicization of justice would suffice and there would be five, six or seven measures left. You have not identified them, you have not told us what those measures are, but it seems that you have clear ideas. With five, six or seven measures it would be sufficient to depoliticize justice in the Spanish State. Well, my question is, in line with what I suggested to you in the last question you raised about the riggings, why don't you present them to the House now? Why don't you check them? Register these measures, register them. Or re-register them... I'm not going to suggest you do it soon, when you're a member of the Lower House, because maybe you don't get that honor. But why don't you take them? You are asking the Government, you are asking the General Courts to take measures that you can take. That is why I question your real commitment. It is true that you insist on these issues, return to them, make statements, express your concern... It's true. But then, when it comes to taking real action, instead of acting and activating the powers you have as a parliamentarian... You are not any citizen of the street, you are a parliamentarian who occupies a seat here; a seat besides with the privilege, or the advantage over others, that he only forms a parliamentary group. Therefore, all the capacities that each of the parliamentary groups has here, some of which are made up of 27 Members, all of which you have alone. You concentrate on one person, on one seat, all the powers that other parliamentary groups spread in 27. Why does it not activate its powers under the Regulation to take these measures effectively? I share with you this concern about the politicization of justice. I didn't deny it, I didn't deny it at all. Surely your appreciation and mine, your diagnosis and mine would be different. I have already been able to see that, in fact, we do not have coincident approaches to the General Council of the Judiciary. But since you know exactly what six or seven measures need to be taken to put an end to politicisation, present them, register them in the House, in this or in the next legislature, and discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u70	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the USEstalia Rojo Solana Sozialists made for the president, the statements made by President Urkullu about the young." Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u71	Yes, thank you, President, and good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. On the subject of youth, we have had a few weeks in which we have discussed at length in this plenary various initiatives by different parliamentary groups. These initiatives come from interventions you made in two specific forums: one was a meal with employer Cebek, and the other was a meeting you had with the youths of your party. At that last meeting with the youths of your party you made statements absolutely contrary to what you raised with Cebek's employer. On the one hand, he was talking about the need, even inviting young people to leave the Basque country to be able to internationalize their training, and on the other hand, you were asking companies to open their doors to hire young Basques. Indeed, unemployment is one of the biggest problems facing Euskadi, just like Spain, and unemployment is one of the problems to which you should put forward concrete solutions. The youth policy in this Government has not existed, however much it has been tried by different parliamentary groups; even a youth paper has been developed to deal with what concerns young people, trying to put forward concrete proposals, since you are unable to put them forward. Therefore, after listening to these contradictory interventions, with the employer Cebek and with the young people of your party, taking into account these two statements, how do you think young people should proceed in order to be able to access the framework of work in Euskadi in decent conditions? Going away, hoping that, apart from internationalizing their training, they will find a job there, or waiting for Basque companies to open their doors? Is it that you don't intend to do anything?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u72	Thank you, Miss Rojo. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Rojo, all my pronouncements since the start of the legislature on employment and youth employment have had the same line, and it is to promote an economic policy that creates employment opportunities for young people in Euskadi. And I will also tell you that the unemployment figures recorded in May indicate an annual decline in unemployment of 8.3%, i.e. 13,494 fewer people than last year, of which the under-five segment is -13.3%. I will also tell you that in the first five months of the year 352,194 contracts have been registered in Euskadi, 29,982 more than a year ago, that is to say 9,7 % more, in which in the segment of children under 25 there has been an increase in contracts of 19,2 %. I am not going to get mixed up in the question of what I said in the meeting with the young people of the Basque Nationalist Party, because I have already given sufficient explanations about that in an inquiry by Mrs Zulaika here in this House, and also about my pronouncements in a linear way on this issue. And I am not going to get mixed up, because you also intended a reprobation of those words after the interpellation had been substantiated in a plenary session. Therefore, this issue has already been discussed. And what I have said linearly throughout the legislature, linearly, about employment and youth employment, is also in this House and is in the Chamber. And I am not going to get mixed up, when in addition to all the government's initiatives, all, are agreed with the Socialist Party: Youth Employment Plan from January 2014 and in force until the year 2016, Global Training Fellowships, Lehen Aukera, practices in Basque companies abroad, Youth Talent Plan, training of unemployed people, entrepreneurship system, support for self-employment... You ask: "How should youth proceed?". Well, look, in addition to what I have said throughout the legislature, I subscribe to the agreement for the declaration of the Decade of Youth Employment of the United Nations, also promoted by this Basque Government: to improve its academic and professional training, to strengthen its capacities, to take advantage of the opportunities of access to the labour market in order to have work experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u75	Thank you, President. Look, Mr Lehendakari, this honourable Member's speech does not intend to annoy you, nor does it bother you. Whether your statements are linear or not... Lineal is the tone; statements... anyway. You are not anyone who thinks in a forum and says in a place "Go away, try internationalizing your formation", or asks companies to open the doors. You're the lehendakari. Indeed, you have agreed with the Socialist Party what you have said and many other things. Another thing is the execution of what we have agreed. If the Socialist Party did not put certain things into the agreements it makes with the Basque Nationalist Party, you would do nothing. And what I am telling you is that we have been able to agree, and indeed that is going to improve the situation, in this case of employment in young people, but what is clear is that you have not solved anything. That the levels of unemployment have improved? Yeah. Not just thanks to the PNV! Yes, they've improved. But I'm talking about decent conditions of employment. It's not about fewer people being targeted in Lanbide, or fewer people looking for work. We're talking about conditions, working conditions. We are talking about wages, what kind of contracts are made, how many temporary jobs there are, how few people are indefinite, and the real opportunity young people have to get to work. We're talking about that. It is not a matter of giving you the responsibility that you have done nothing. I'm not saying they didn't do anything. Indeed, the agreement that the PNV signs with the Socialist Party serves something, when some things are being done, but you know that today there is a demand, on the part of Basque youth, for opportunities and conditions worthy of employment. And that is something that this parliamentary group is concerned about, and that is why it proposes it. And you, when you are criticized for some specific policies, always take it personally, and the excuse to respond to everything is "This is what we have agreed with the Basque Socialist Party." Always. That is all you can say as an argument to try to counter the opinion of a socialist parliamentarian, and in this case it is up to me. What is clear is that young people do not have opportunities. What is clear is that you say they leave, and at the same time you tell companies to open their doors. What you should tell us is what you're going to do, and you don't say it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u76	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Red, don't worry about it. I don't mind your interventions. Don't worry about it. Look, it is public and notorious that on every occasion I have asked the world of business to integrate youth work and quality employment. Every time. It is well known that the Government has led the campaign for the declaration of the United Nations Decade of Youth Employment. It is well known that I explained this question here fifteen days ago. I also sent a letter to the President of the Youth Council, who responded positively to me, thanking the explanations and sending their contributions. I have been meeting with Councillors with the Euskadi Youth Council. I'm not going to give false expectations to youth. I just repeat that for twenty-nine months Euskadi has been growing, and employment as well. I just reiterate that Basque companies need to hire 25,000 people this year and 25,000 who are coming, and these companies have made known the profile of the knowledge, skills and skills they demand to bring young people into these jobs. I don't understand why you criticize measures that are working. I admit that we have not solved the whole problem; that is why I take this opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to youth employment. Last year this commitment materialized in improving the employability of 16,000 young people through dual training, entrepreneurship support, Lehen Aukera, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD congressmen to the president, the collection of Eukadindas on the sink." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u79	Yes, thank you. Mr Lehendakari, I ask you about the collapse of tax collection in Euskadi: why has this collapse of tax collection occurred, what consequences it will have, and what measures the Basque Government will take from now on, above all to safeguard the interests of citizens, and in particular the welfare state, all that has to do with education, health, social spending, but also productive investment, R & D+i, and so many important things that depend on budgets. The truth is that there has been a collapse of tax collection in this first quarter, and this is of enormous gravity. Tax collection has a negative sign: although Gipuzkoa's income has grown by 8.2%, in Alava it has fallen by 4.1%, and in Bizkaia by 2.8%. This data makes it impossible to comply with the budgetary estimates of revenue which were established by an increase of 7 %, and therefore both the Members of Parliament and the Government will have to take steps to square the accounts. Beyond the erroneous estimates made at the time and, by the way, the political responsibilities that must be demanded of them, it is time for the Government itself (Lehendakari) to explain at parliamentary level the measures that it is going to take to square the budgets, and what are going to be the items that will be reduced. From a progressive point of view, we suggest from UPyD that items involving public services, care for the most vulnerable, social spending and productive investments should be kept out of any kind of cut-off. But that is not what this Basque Government or other governments whose decisions affect us have done in the past. This Government, and the other, is often cut to the most sensitive. They usually say they're not going to cut, but they do, even if they're going to talk about adjustments. This is what is usually done, especially in this particular case, when the revenue forecasts are not met, and therefore from somewhere you have to cut, you will have to cut. We propose that nothing be cut off from what has to do with the welfare state, with R & D & I, with productive investments, with all that is so important to so many Basque citizens. We want to know, therefore, what the Government is going to do. We do not want you to tell us that we have to wait or that we have to be careful to see what happens from June 26th – the date of the general elections in particular – but to explain it to us now: what has failed, why these forecasts have been made and have not been fulfilled, why tax collection has collapsed, and what measures the Basque Government is going to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u80	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, the explanations on the circumstances have already been given by the Finance and Finance Adviser, Mr Gatzagaetxebarria, in a previous question at today's sitting. But it is true that two territories find themselves with negative data and a third with positive data. And the Government's position, yes, is prudent, and we will certainly maintain rigour in the management of public resources. Look, the deficit data in the state in the first quarter confirm that Euskadi maintains the rigour in budgetary management. And I also remind you of the efforts that we are making from the Basque Government to consolidate this forecast of flexibility of deficit margins before the end of the year. Mr Maneiro, it is not true, as you say, that the Basque Government intends not to advance any decision and wait until after the elections on 26 June. And it is not true because the government's decision is made: rigour yes, and prudence. And it is because the IRPF is settled at the end of June, and the corporation tax at the end of July. It has nothing to do with an electoral calculation on 26 June next, Mr Maneiro. The decision taken by the Government is firm. We are not going to cut the pillars of the Basque model of social protection: health, education and the fight against exclusion. We will maintain quality in public services essential for citizenship. We have not done this before, nor will we do it after the elections cut into the pillars of the Basque model of social protection. The example you also have in the financial year 2013, which with less income we also had to extend the 2012 budgets, and we maintained the pillars of the Basque model of social protection. And it also has it, as an example, in the 2014, 2015 and 2016 budgets. The decision is therefore to strengthen the economy's momentum for job creation, because this is the most effective social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u83	Yes, thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. I, rather than the rigour of this government in budgetary matters, recall that these are cuts; budget cuts and also cuts caused by budget inefficiencies. This is what has happened in recent times, in recent years and in the previous year. And it looks like something like this is going to happen this year. Because you were saying recently in a media outlet: "The revenue drop will force you to invest rigorously in the important." I thought this was done. I thought it was already strictly invested in the important thing. And now it turns out you're gonna have to cut. And you say, "We're not going to cut into anything that has to do with the welfare state." Indeed, we ask you not to make any more cuts. But where are you going to cut it then? In R & D+i? In productive investment? Where? Was there anything left? Were there budget items that were inflated? Was he wasting his money? Is that where it's going to be cut? That is what needs to be clarified, because if there is a budget cut, as a result of the fact that a wrong fiscal policy has been pursued and that the estimates have been made in a wrong way, then obviously some decision will have to be taken. What you can't say is that there's not going to be any kind of adjustment and that you're going to invest as rigorously as before. No, something has to be done! What are you going to do? Are you going to tell people the truth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u84	Thank you, Mr. Maniro, your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, the truth is that I do not know where and how we understand the cuts, when we are talking about maintaining the pillars of the social protection model and the welfare state in Euskadi, even with budgets extended from 2012 to 2013, with 1.1 billion euros less revenue, and when we are talking about budgets for 2014, 2015 and 2016 that have continued to grow. Look, what I'm saying is that the government and all the public institutions are going to maintain rigorous and responsible economic management. And we are also pushing not only the reflection on what is happening, but also the shared, joint proactivity in the field of Basque institutional public administration, from respect for competition and also taking into account the limitations of the institutional, state and international context in which we move. We will continue to ensure stability and sustainability. We will continue to guarantee economic policy and public services to citizens. We have done so in recent years. And today the situation would say that it is of greater confidence in investment, consumption, growth and employment, which will help, in addition to the action of public policy, from the Basque public administrations, in the maintenance of the pillars of the welfare state or the protection system..., will also help investment, consumption, growth and employment to the dynamism and reactivation of the economy, which is what we have been saying also that it is the best social policy that we can guarantee for Basques and Basques in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. The 12th point on the subject list was "to ask, as Igor López de Munununuza EH Collector's parliamentary member of the nation's Administration and Justice, about the measurements of the elections that are to be taken." Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u87	Yes, good morning. I look like I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u88	To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr López de Munain, the Basque Government's action in the matter referred to in your question focuses on redressing the possible harm that the alleged criminal acts in the case could have irrogated to the General Finance of the Basque Country. And it strictly conforms to the mandate adopted by this House first on 16 May 2015, and ratified yesterday, literally, which urges the Government, and I quote, "to take all necessary measures to recover the public funds granted by the Government in respect of which a judgment determines that an unauthorized use has been made of them". To this end, the Basque Government is involved in two proceedings: the criminal proceedings before the Court of Instruction No. 3 of Vitoria, and the competition proceedings before the Court of Commerce No. 1 of Vitoria-Gasteiz. Moreover, the Court of Auditors has opened preliminary proceedings in relation to this matter, in which we are also present, collaborating in the defence of the general interests of the General Treasury of the Basque Country. I do not see that there is any novelty in any of the procedures that warrants a change in criteria. You ask about the additional measures to be taken by the Government... The Government has these three characters, and to date no new data have been produced justifying a change in the approach or a change in the criteria for action in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u90	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u91	Good morning. It's lucky, we already knew that answer. It is also fortunate to be able to ask the question directly to you, as you were most responsible for negotiating those budgets with the Zapatero Government, so you will know the issues. He negotiated two of the projects that I want to bring up today, which are Santurtzi Innovation Park and Hiriko. He also negotiated the subject of Pasaia, the Txakoli of Bakio and Epsilon, but that was another day. My question brings to mind that, after a complaint from the prosecutor – I don't know if she will know it – Mrs. Arantza Zenarruzabeitia appears as charged for her performance in the case of Denokinn, but that doesn't touch here. But another issue does, and that does affect the performance of the Government, which is that of Mr Hernando Lacalle, who is also accused, and who is the Director of Budgets of the Government. This gentleman is accused of a subject – and I read it textually – of "false invoices, misappropriation of public funds for the benefit of Denokinn, and for having chosen that company to finger for a Deika project." Mr. Hernando was the Director of Innovation and Economic Promotion of the Álava Foral Diputation, and in the court, among the evidence that has been presented, there are emails that were sent among the people behind the Denokinn project in the Álava Foral Diputation, and he appears in the said emails answering one of the questions asked by another of the defendants, with which the subject knows quite well. He was also placed by you on the council of the Caisse Vital, and then, later, he was as an assistant in the Basque Parliament, here, with which he is surely more of the PNV... , or at least as much as all those participating in that bench. The prosecutor filed the complaint in December 2015, and now the trial is underway. His code of ethics, or the code of ethics of all those present here, says one thing like this: "The imputation of public and assimilated positions in any criminal or administrative sanctioning process, arising from acts linked to the exercise of the public functions of his office or by actions of singular public importance, will be elevated to the Public Ethics Commission for the issuance of the recommendation...". And then it goes on. And that's my question: have you taken care of something as a government? Is there such a recommendation from the Public Ethics Commission? Is there a cessation of this person for being charged with very serious crimes? Is there any kind of government action before this person? Aren't you going to do anything? Is everything going to be the same? Will they continue to protect and cover up their own? And it's that they get absolutely everything together, because there is also – only the latest news has to be reviewed – another person accused, in this case not by the Denokinn plot, which is the head of Human Resources of Ertzaintza, for embezzlement and undue payments. Have they acted yet? Is there a recommendation? I mean it honestly, because I don't know him. Is there that recommendation? There's absolutely nothing? Do you take care of it? Don't you take over? Do you believe that the Government does not have to act in this case, either before any of the accused or accused persons belonging to its Government? Because we and we would have it pretty clear: those two people today, at least, would no longer be where they are. And if you don't, we'll ask you too. Use your responsibility, use your responsibilities, and prevent people accused of extremely serious corruption from continuing to carry out public work. You must act, and it is time to do so now. And that's why we asked him: Are you going to do something? Have you done anything? Or do you expect to do something?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u92	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Munain, I also thank you, in correspondence with your thanks, for the summary you gave me of the reading of the media, of the data and information published recently in the written media, which mention people outside this administration and decisions taken not by this government, but by outside or municipal institutions in Álava, Bizkaia or other territorial areas. I have been drawn to the attention of the drift that has given to the question, because it had little to do with the first, but there is no problem. I see that you read the press and summarise it well, but it is that in relation to the consultations made by the senior officials of this Government, in relation to that precept of the ethical code that you have commented, there are numerous publications in the media, some of which are practically specialized in following up on all the resolutions of the Ethics Commission that are published on the website. They're all public. All of them. And there is a follow-up to the media, and precisely with regard to the issue you have raised, there have been several consultations made by senior officials who have been invited to testify before some investigating judges as investigators. In this connection, there is already a doctrine formulated by the Public Ethics Commission, which has been published for more than a year. You go to Google, simply, easily, "Public Ethics Commission of the Basque Government", and there is a page with all the resolutions. All of them. Of course, he comes here to ask for information as if we were hiding it from public knowledge, and it is information that has been made public for over a year now. More than a year ago, the first resolution was made public in relation to what the Ethics Committee is of the opinion about the statements to be quoted as an investigator. Therefore, I am open to what you want to comment on on this issue now or in the future, but I invite you to read the resolutions first, and know exactly what is being proposed in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u94	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Jul's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Committee for the Administration of the People and the Chief of Justice, the necessity of repairing the conflict between the Public Administration and the Justice Department." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all of you, and good day to the representatives of the courts and unions who fight in defence of your conditions of work. Yes, Mr. Erkorárek, your department seems to have a conflict with the judges of the court, which is surprising, for these people are reasonable, and I have proved it. No one will deny that to ensure the future of the Court School in Medical Court, they must also assert that it is a worthy condition of work to work in that high school. On May 18th, he called to the negotiation table to approach his positions, but the negotiations were broken by the Director of Justice of Jon Uritre. My question is: What's Red Beetle gonna do to fight the court authorities?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u96	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, after reading your written question, I can't agree with what you say and what you've confirmed today in this tribe. On the one hand, you say that the administration has not shown any flexibility in this subject, and, on the other hand, you say that things are still in the work. In this law, the unions first appeared in the middle of the year, the theme of the forensics of the court for the sake of treating on the sactorial table. Four times since, the table has been assembled to treat this subject: On the third of July, 2014, November 13, 2014, November 26, 2015, and May 18, 2016. You only mention one, but it has not been only once, but it has been discussed four times in order to treat it. In these assemblies, the Administration representative has presented three different proposals. Three. They're all different and each is better than the other. It cannot, therefore, be said that the administration has not acted with moderation. On the other hand, not only flexibleness, but the will to approach propositions or positions, because the proposals have improved, and that in the meantime he has made frequent encounters with the unions separately, and also with the members of the institute's direction. So, move it, the Administration has moved. But even the ones in front must be moved. For if one of them does not make movement, the approach will be very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u98	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u99	We will agree, at least, that there are three areas in which progress needs to be made: a good recycling plan, training; an adequate schedule system, including the right to rest, and a fair wage. Conditions that I also understand would be better complemented by a dignified treatment for forensic doctors, welcoming them as their own personnel, interpreting that they are workers of the Basque Administration and equipping them with all the effects. It seems sensible to put it this way, but it is that I see and reality tells me that that is not the attitude of the department, and that is not the attitude that leads to the meetings. I'm going to give you certain facts. The salary matching requested by forensic doctors, which is the establishment of the 27.2.b level of the General Administration as a minimum level, is a logical approach, is a timely approach, is fair, and is also budgetaryly ridiculous, because it has insignificant budgetary implications. You tell me you've met four times. And I say to him: four meetings exactly to return to the beginning, to return to the beginning. At that last meeting, the one on 18 May, convened by the department – which, by the way, was not even honoured to go to the vice-counsel – the one responsible there, Mr.Arturo Uriarte, brought back the previous proposal of the forensic doctors, who already knew, that proposal that rewarded the high offices but penalized the generalist forensic doctors and the experts, that is, that great majority. A proposal that would give the first strike in the world that would end with a wage improvement for the bosses, who, of course, do not participate in the strike. However, in the Numtina defense that Mr Uriarte makes of that position even takes a step back, retreating precisely to the first meeting. In Mr Uriarte's view, the appropriate proposal would be the first one, which involved lowering their salaries. "If I don't say it, I'll burst," said Mr. Uriarte. Mr. Uriarte is a powerful man and his attitude is proud, destructive, and not worthy of a government representative. I'd better take him away. Paraphrased, Mr. Erkoreka, "if I don't say so, I'll be gone." Not only is it a question of decent pay, but everything they are saying about training is full of inaccuracies, mistakes and lies. And what I have to believe is that in the end you don't believe in the institute, because it's incompatible to dignify the work of forensic doctors and still consider them out, differentiated from the staff of the Basque Administration. There is an initiative presented because this Parliament is in favour of the demands of forensic doctors. We are only waiting for it to be scheduled, for Mr Arieta-Araunabeña to bring it to the Committee on Institutions, so that we can discuss it and send a clear message to the Government to respond to the demands of that group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u100	Thank you, Mr. Arzuga... [[Words]] If you read the 84th article in the Reformation, you'll know what quotes are, please. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuga, first of all, I beg your respect for people who haven't been here yet. It's not that you've done here when they're addressed to an individual, nor at a distance that's acceptable. I really don't accept them and I'm really asking you not to repeat them to anyone. I may or may not agree with the manner in which a person should handle a subject, but to make such expressions in order to obtain an attitude towards someone, I do not, at least, see them well. The three things you've talked about, because you said three, you put a training plan on the table, 2016, the training and research committee, unanimously approved. It wasn't fun, it was the same high school, it was his experts, and they accepted it unanimously, and even some of the strikemen protected it. And he also provided it with an 800,000 euros game. No such thing has ever been here, never so far. As for the rest of the guard's quarters, he's committed to absolutely respect, but we're talking about a break and not a free day. And in the field of the Soliday, there have been great steps in improving the original offerings, and making proposals for the present or future, which must always be played within the frame, that is, in the frame of the road to match the general administration. That's exactly what 2010 signed with all the unions in the year: That it was necessary to match the general administration and to compare it with the conditions and conditions prescribed and foreseen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u102	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question of María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popilative Groups of Economics, the chief physician of Equixia-Arixa-Arioxa from the origin of the wine in Bizka and Gipuzia." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u103	Good morning, Madam President. Counselors, counselor, from the wine sector of the Rioja Denomination of Origin in Álava, your different agents insist that the great outstanding subject of our wine Denomination of Origin Rioja de Álava continues to be their promotion and recognition in the nearest internal market, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Of all the Rioja Denomination of Origin wine consumed in Bizkaia, only 10% is from Rioja Alavesa; in Gipuzkoa it is something else, around 15%. Counsellor, what is your assessment of the low knowledge and consumption of Rioja Alavesa wine in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u104	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u105	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs López de Ocariz, this has been a matter of debate and reflection for quite some time now. And you refer to a fact that you probably heard in the appearances of a number of people in the committee, but I will tell you that we do not really have any concrete data that supports those claims. The only data we have right now is from the Euskadi set, then we go from there. But why are you only talking about Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia? Is all the wine you drink in Álava from Rioja Alavesa? Can you tell me? If we're going to promote Rioja Alavesa's wine, we're going to promote it all over Euskadi. But, well, you have no doubt that as a government we are undertaking the corresponding actions from our presence in Gastronomika, Basque Fest, Ardo Koloreak, or Vision, Gustoko, Ardoaraba... in all those local and international performances. But, for many actions we do, I would like to repeat a message, and that is that in order to be able to market well and differentiate well a certain wine, and in order for consumers to know that they are drinking and asking for Rioja Alavesa wine, it is necessary to be able to do so. And right now, as you well know, that's impossible. Because, despite all the attempts we have made, the whole wine sector and of course the government, because the Rioja Denomination of Origin makes clear and allows for a clear differentiation of Rioja Alavesa wine, that is impossible today. And what the sector is asking of us is precisely that, that the wine of Rioja Alavesa can be clearly distinguished. And not so much that we make promotions, that too. But just with the promotion, if we really can't tell it apart then, little favor we do to the sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u107	Counselor, you also do not contribute to spreading the knowledge of Rioja Alavesa's wine. Today, but also a few months ago, they asked him in a media outlet: "Will we drink Rioja Alavesa wine for the end of the legislature?". And you replied, "Well, with Rioja Alavesa wine, I'm sure it is; another thing will be for Rioja Alavesa to appear on the label of the bottle we drink." Look, I have a wine label, and it says "Rioja Alavesa," clearly. But there are more than 105 wineries in Rioja Alavesa that label like this. ABRA also told us that in the committee. Therefore, counselor, you do not conform to the truth. It doesn't fit the truth. You have a great lack of knowledge, or is it something else? Is it doing politics at the cost of Rioja Alavesa's wine? Is that what you do, scorning Rioja Alavesa's wine? Counselor, they asked him more in that interview: "Are you going to give him a push on Rioja Alavesa's wine?". "I'm optimistic, we're going to get it. We're trying, and it's on the table of many influential people." What are influential people? Look, the only influential table is the table of the Board of Regulators of the Denomination of Origin Rioja. That is what the Commissioner told Mrs Bilbao in Brussels. That's what he told you! So, Counselor, get ready for the truth. Flaco favor you do to the wine of Rioja Alavesa! We've been sitting here for years with a wine producer from Rioja Alavesa. Never, never touched on this subject. Never! And you come to teach us, of what? Of what? Doing politics at the expense of the primary sector? Counselor, respect for Rioja Alavesa's wine. Respect. ABRA said more than 105 ABRA wineries have this label. 105 wineries! And do you know what ABRA also said? It calls for an internal improvement in the visibility of the label of the sub-areas. That internally, internally... Not in the media speaking falsehoods, counselor. Because you say falsehoods. He said here, you can't tell a difference! Counselor, how do you like it? Can't you see what Rioja Alavesa puts? Do you see him, or do we give him a couple of magnifying glasses? If you have not drunk wine that puts on the label "Rioja Alavesa" is, or out of ignorance, or because you have not given it the will, or because, as I have told you, you use the primary sector for political partisan purposes, to make politics. That doesn't favor the wine of Rioja Alavesa, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u108	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. I'm happy to hear it, Mrs. Tapia, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u109	Mrs. López de Ocariz, don't be so angry about something that's real. If something is asking the wine sector of Rioja Alavesa is that it differentiates well, that the size is sufficient, that it differentiates Rioja Alavesa because the characteristics are different... And, of course, if something asks ABRA, besides all that, it is that it is done in a clear way, and that if it cannot be done at this time, as we have tried for a long time, and you know it perfectly well – and you looked there because you were sitting there, indeed, Mr Gonzalo – other measures can be articulated that allow Rioja Alavesa wine to be clearly distinguished by its quality, its way of working and its characteristic regarding Rioja wine from another area, which is that of the Community of La Rioja. And you know it perfectly well, but I don't say it, the wineries say it, farmers say it: there is a need to articulate a specific model, which the Denomination of Origin absolutely denies, and you know it. And who is really doing politics with wine and the wine sector – let me tell you this – is the Denomination of Origin, where really influential people are from another community and not ours. And when I talk about influential people, I mean the influential sector, such as wine and the cultured wine sector. Those are the influencers for us. Of course, if someone is doing politics for your field, it is you, and you know it perfectly well, because you do not want, under any circumstances, that differentiation to be clear and defined. But say it clearly, because that's what he doesn't want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, given by the lawmen of the Casanova Alonso EH Collectation team to the head of economics and contestations, about the prospect of establishing American corporations in Europe." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u111	Good morning, everyone. Counselor, today I come to ask you about the electric car, but don't be scared. You will have already read the question, and you will know that I am not referring to a matter of permanent topicality in this Parliament, but to another type of electric car, to an electric car of those who are walking and of those who are working and of those who have future. This subject is fashionable in the world and it's true that it's said over and over again that the electric car is the future. It is true that the different projects are gradually carried on in this degree. Unfortunately, it's not much to talk about, but it's doing things too, and they're making progress. At the present day the electric car is a reality in various fashions: There are hybrids, partially electric cars that are from the shell-in or plug-in, Hydrogen. The system is different. For the past few weeks, there's been a lot of talk about a new plan. A California company, the Tesla Motors, has presented a new project called the Model 3 to make a new electrical car. The owner of this company and the brain is a head of new technology, Mr Elon Musk, and this company is famous for doing highly competent electrical, highly effective, technological, and very well-working cars. But there are some very expensive ones, and it's a sign that even if it's expensive, it'll be much more accessible than other models. And so he's doing a lot of speculation to satisfy the spectivity that this model has created because Tesla Motors has to make changes in his productive system, and no doubt he'll have to open new factories. It has been identified that in Europe there is an opportunity of opening one of those factories. There's been requests from various sites. We know it's not yet confirmed that a factory will open in Europe. But we would like to know whether it is worth the offer to establish this imaginary project in the Basque Country, or whether it is worth examining the different possibilities which it deserves, and in consequence of which it is necessary to provide a candidate or Basque territory for such a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u112	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u113	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Casanova, I'm really glad that once we're talking about the electric car, we've stepped forward and we're talking about other things. The first approach to the Tesla project was made from SPRI. Invest in the year of the initiation of the Basque Country in 2014. And then we found out that Tesla was thinking about opening a plant like that in another place. And a person in the council of the CIBRIG is nearby, making electric batteries and highly connected with the Tessa engine. We made a sort of approach through it. At that moment we learned that it was some sort of demand for a very low price, though we presented ourselves as an interesting place, and, as we were told, they wanted a model of casi todo gratis. And, well, we weren't ready for that and he went to Reno. Well, that's known. And they came to Europe, to Holland, where so many Newnations come, and it is to this day to be said that there are only ensamblajes there, and that there is no trader from Europe. But again we have made an approach this year, for again we have learned that there was some movement. And what has hitherto been known is that there is no great interest in coming to Europe, for it has an immense connection with Panasonic about the batteries, and therefore this approach may be both in the United States and also in Asia. Again, in this case we have been told that there is movement, as we all know, but more than one proposition is an incicativa ciudad. However, if we are aware that there are other options beyond Tesla (both Volkswagen and Mercedes) in Europe to promote the electric car, including the energy cluster and automoration (Acicae) SPRI in which the suppliers and our choices will be given. We'll make the proposal to Tess, but we'll also make those two companies. That's from SPRI today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours. CASANOVA ALONSO jaunak: Okay. We obviously want to act rigorously on this issue, and we know at what point this project is at, which is only being considered by the company itself. We don't want to do here the Basque version of Welcome, Mr. Marshall, or the milk accounts. We're not doing the Ongi etorri, Mr. Musk, because we have to be serious. But it is true that there is a possibility, and, however remote that possibility is, it is worth analysing and it is worth considering that there is a dossier in which the potentialities of this territory are put into use to accommodate an initiative of these characteristics. And, as you have said, also for other companies, but with a specific consideration of the needs that Tesla may have, in case you consider implementing this factory in Europe. It is now true, as you have said, that they are in Tilburg, the Netherlands, at a stage of assembly, but it is true that it is expected that, if everything goes well, the requests will be multiplied, the needs will be multiplied, and that Europe will have to meet greater demand and, therefore, it will be able to reconsider the question of their implementation. We obviously believe that this is a matter that needs to be studied. You cannot attract investments at any price, as you have said, you have to analyse the offer very well, but we would also like it to exist from now on a well-worked dosier, with the possibilities it offers for the installation of a factory of these characteristics on the table of any investor who is considering making a proposal of this level. And, therefore, we believe that we must continue to work, we believe that we must round up the proposal, we believe that everything cannot be accepted at any price, but we believe that this country has the conditions to be on the table of those who have to make the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u115	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u116	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I fully agree with what you are saying; therefore, what we have worked on or what we are working on right now is that it is not just a proposal from SPRI, from Invest in the Basque Country, but that it is working on that proposal with the two clusters, that of automotive and that of energy. And I also tell you that the automotive cluster Acicae is going to be in California in June, precisely to know first hand the possibilities, to make a first presentation of what are the options of Euskadi, what we can offer, under what conditions, and to analyze, I insist, first hand, what are the possibilities of being able to attract this type of investment. But it will not be just in this case, in the case of Tesla, as I said, but we pretend that we can offer that to other potential suppliers, analyzing what are our strengths in the value chain and where are the biggest difficulties, which are usually linked to everything that is the battery packs, that is, how we manage to store the energy. In the field of innovation we are quite well positioned, but still in the productive part we have, well, to be able to make some alliance with some other supplier, and that is what is being worked on right now to be able to make a complete offer. But we will certainly continue to work as we have done so far, because we consider that the production of those electric vehicles by the hand of important producers and important sellers, marketers, such as Volkswagen, Mercedes or Tesla, is the road we have to follow from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 16th point in the theme list: "I appeal to Bixen Ichasus González, a member of the United States of the United States, a member of the United States, of the United States, made to arrive as a worthy and proper residence in the neighbourhood of the subjective right of decree." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u118	Thank you, President. Good morning. Mr Councilman, the reason why I raised an inquiry is basically that, as I see it as a delicate matter, I did not want to speak over and over again in the short time of an oral question. But I hope I'm over time. Moreover, I trust that the response will be satisfactory and that no further initiatives will be required. Well, you probably already know the terms of the matter. We were justifying it by saying how the Government on the Irekia page in January of this year hung the draft decree on subjective law. A draft decree that finally raised some complaints. Following this, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented an initiative that was agreed on 14 April in a transaction with UPyD. In that parliamentary agreement of 14 April, we said, inter alia, that the existing criterion on the conditions of access to subjective law should be maintained. We specifically said that instead of four years the system that is followed with the CPV is followed, until the specified regulatory provisions are published. You in an oral question I asked you on May 20th spoke to us in these terms: "You know that the Department of Employment and Social Policy began the elaboration of the development decree since the coming into force of the Housing Act, with a draft that, on the other hand, has withdrawn to start drafting it, in fact, in another way and with greater consensus. Mr Itxaso, publishing the draft was not fortunate; it was an exercise in transparency, but we could have avoided it." The case is that, taking into account this answer, which on the other hand must be thanked for its frankness, and for the sincerity of it, but it is that three days after these statements, on 23 May, on the portal of the Basque regulations, Legegunea, a new draft decree appears among the documents, which we have compared with the previous one and, in fact, does not present substantial differences and maintains the criteria of access more restrictive of the two options that were being proposed. That is why, although I hope the answer will be satisfactory, I have to ask you the question and ask you the question. With regard to that agreement of 14 April, which has a number of points, but which basically, as far as we are concerned, speaks of maintaining the previous criterion, is it the intention of this Government to fulfil the parliamentary mandate adopted on 14 April, drawing up, with the greatest possible consensus, a decree on the subjective right of access to the legal occupation of a decent and adequate housing that would prevent the tightening of access to rental subsidies in Euskadi? Well, here's the thing. It doesn't really give rise to many disquisitions either. I want to think that the Government's will is to do so in those terms, and that the recognition or confession it made in its day tends to raise the horizon that there will be a different draft than we have seen these days on this portal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u119	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u120	Ma'am, chief of departments, fellow congressmen, good noon. Dear lord, I explained to you on the 20th of May the day before, that we are working on a decree which will regulate the right to occupy a decent and proper housing since the House entered the Department of Police and Society. I told you, too, that this decree is becoming complex. The difficulties arise from two principal reasons. We have two difficulties in developing this project well, but before that, I will tell you that we will do what we can. I begin here to show you our willingness to make a development that is the result of the consensus of all or almost all the members of this House. Firstly, a lack of regulation of the said subjective right in the Housing Act (only in article..., I think it is 9), each time only the requirements to be met by the beneficiaries are regulated, and in addition these requirements have been referred to a further development, which is the one that needs to be done complexly afterwards. The Housing Act has not dealt with such fundamental issues as the amount of aid (which was then fortunately regulated in the Budget Act), what happens if there are competition from holders, what are the obligations of the beneficiary persons, what is the procedure for granting aid, when the payment is made and when the payment is made, what is the duration of the right, how periodic reviews are carried out, how the right is extinguished... I'm not going to spread anymore. Determinations that were included in the definition of supplementary housing benefit in the Social Inclusion Act. However, the Housing Act omitted any element that would sufficiently shape this subjective right; hence the complexity that you can understand. The second element that hinders the regulatory development of this subjective right is an important lack of measures that make it possible to integrate the two aids designed to facilitate access to rented housing, which are currently subjective, before they did not have it. And there are issues that change it substantially, and there are also basic laws that limit us, which previously did not limit us. In other words, the integration of the supplementary housing benefit, derived from the social inclusion system, and the new economic housing benefit regulated by this law. This difficulty of integrating both systems, to which I refer and have referred on numerous occasions, has been warned not only by this department, but by all of you and by all the parliamentary groups represented in this House, in the various debates and questions that we have had occasion to hold after the adoption of the law. From his point of view, this lack of regulation can be seen as an advantage for the Executive in developing the subjective right to housing; however, from our point of view, the Executive has been transferred the adoption of measures and decisions that, in our view, should have been taken by the legislator, by this House, during the processing of the Housing Act. And only in this way could some of the proposals adopted in that non-law proposal of 14 April be understood. First, in that proposal, the Government was urged to respect the spirit of the law, but you well know that an administration must respect the literality of the approved norm, without much room for subjective interpretations. I then told him: "Legis wills", the will of the law, and legislative wills, the will of the legislator; or, rather, the will of what he says the legislator meant, which begins to bind us (article 3 of the Civil Code). But, well, we will do what is in everyone's hands, without failing the law, obviously, or, if the law has to be skipped, in any case changing it, but not skipping it. Secondly, the Basque Government was urged in that proposal to ensure that the exercise of the subjective right in its form of economic benefit did not entail, in terms of requirements or amounts, any reduction in the rights previously recognized. In addition, they called for the development decree to ensure the confluence and integration of the supplementary housing benefit and the new economic benefit, not merely the replacement of one another. This is very important, and that is why the department I am running has maintained the two systems in place as long as there is not enough consensus on how to integrate both aids for the rental of a house. And, Members of Parliament, Mr Itxaso, this government is going to do everything possible to ensure that the regulatory development of this law leads to the process it has to carry out, so that no one is left excluded from the social protection systems with which we have been equipped in this government and in this country. Thirdly, the proposal called on the Government to give priority to beneficiaries in the award of housing belonging to the public rental park of the Basque Government. Well, I have to say that this measure is already being implemented by the department since the entry into force of the subjective law, since this year, since January 2016. Fourthly, that proposal urged the Government to establish the development decree as the maximum age of three years as the sole applicant for rent in the register of applicants for protected housing and accommodation, rather than the four years specified in the fourth transitional provision of the Act. Of course, it is surprising – and I say this without wishing to offend anyone – that it is now the legislator who asks the Executive to establish a requirement that the House itself may have previously regulated. Why was this requirement not expressly included in the proposal for a law submitted by the Socialist Group? Why did not an amendment establish three years old and not four years old? I said it on another occasion: with the decree this we will not be able to change it. Not this, eh! Finally, they requested the Basque Government that under no circumstances should the income requirements for beneficiaries of the subjective right to decent housing be higher than those set out in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act for income-guarantee income. Itxaso jauna, it has not been a year since the adoption of the Housing Act (on 18 June it will be a year this month), and this House has witnessed the numerous indefinitions of which it suffers, as well as the continuing attempts by its parliamentary group, and also by the parliamentary group EH Bildu, which approved this law, to hold the Basque Government accountable for the decisions that you yourselves have not taken, and which we are now trying to take forward. And this presents us with difficulties in managing our commitment – that of you, of you, and I hope that of the whole House – to the most vulnerable groups, so that they are not affected, which is the end that I believe we share with all those who make up this House, starting, of course – because I want to emphasise it too – by the parliamentary group that supports this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u121	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u122	The truth is that the arguments I have made, Mr. Counsellor, have indeed been heard before those of us who push and carry forward the agreement to pass the law in the terms in which it is, and throughout this process it was already warned, indeed, that the Government did not like the determination and vocation that inspired the law. Of course, if the law had collected all the relevant aspects, of which you have only given a sample, then, instead of a law, we would have had to make a code really. The law, in the most succinct way, in the most laconic way if it can, combining diverse wills and even different political and ideological approaches, seeks to find consensus and a common place on certain public policies, which in this case have to do with the right to housing. When a wide area of regulation is voluntarily left to the Government, that is, when it is not limited to that capacity, it is precisely because it is understood that it is a difficult task, that it is going to be laborious, that it is going to be, in the end, harsh, but that the Government empowers and allows it, precisely within its possibilities, to find the best possible options, in accordance with the spirit of the law. What happens is that it was also felt, albeit pedantic, that the Government would rely on this regulatory task to outline difficulties of any kind. You see, the Nationalist Group, which supports the Government, has not tabled any amendments to this issue of deadlines and so on. And there were possibilities to deal with it, because we had an amendment (although we were the proponents, we made two amendments later), and in relation to this matter we dropped it, without more or more, just because of the fact... Yeah, one that was talking about the beneficiary payroll going to increase to eighteen, it was going to be immediately applicable... But, as that was quite maximalistic, we ourselves dropped an amendment in those terms, because we understood the difficulty. But what does not convince us very much, Mr. Counsellor, is that, within the difficulties that the Government may have in putting the law at cruising speed, the true political will is not being manifested. Because, of course, the literal interpretation... I do not know whether it will be pedantic too, but I believe that some of us here represent the authentic interpretation of that law, and, of course, at no time the vocation of it, nor of the groups that sponsored it, was to undermine or reduce the conditions of access to pre-existing rights, subjective rights as well. And, as it turns out that from the submission of draft decrees (it has not even constituted a definitive norm, but they have been amagoes, mere presentations) have already arisen some important complaints and some alarms in social groups and, of course, in the groups that we support the law, that is why we ask you, Mr. Counsellor, above all by will. Not so much because of their legal difficulties. Because law is like Swiss knives, some said, has multiple possibilities of use. And, of course, with the literal tenor of the law – we have said it before and we repeat it again – the government should have no problem regulating in relation to subjective law without undermining it. What I ask of you, Mr. Counsellor, is that you express to us the will of the Government. If it is to maintain the conditions of access in the case of the supplementary housing benefit, when the right to housing is monetized in this case, in the terms in which it is already in, or propose the draft decree as something inexcusable that the transitional provision cannot be read in other terms and that, therefore, it will harden the conditions of access, an aspect that we reject. That is why we are asking you, Mr. Counsellor: by the will of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u123	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u124	Thank you, ma'am. Look, Mr Itxaso, I start at the end: if the government's will had been crooked, the decree would have been passed in terms that surely would not satisfy you. And I anticipate that, with the rhythms and the time we have to take to agree on the terms of the decree, it will be quite reasonable to think that the decree is not going to be approved in this legislature. And fortunately, we have provided ourselves with a transitional time during which the two systems will be in place. A transitional time that cannot be eternal, but as long as we need to reach reasonable consensus that does not harm our citizens. What more can you ask for as the government's will? I'm going to talk to you more technically. The processing of the decree on the development of the subjective right to the legal occupation of housing began on 29 December 2015. You say that there is ample space left to the Government. Yes, but when the law was passed, the Nationalist Parliamentary Group was not given ample space to join in the adoption of the law. It was adopted quickly, without giving it the chance to join. It was then necessary to make improvements and modifications to the text, to make the necessary contrast at the internal level by which, in fact, the new text was recently included both in Legegunea – as you said – and in the Platform for Transparency of the Basque Government. Since the entry into force of the Housing Act, and particularly since the first draft of the decree on the development of subjective law was known, there have been numerous agents and associations who have transferred to this department – I understand that also to parliamentary groups – their considerations, not only on the content of the decree, but on the law itself. And that is why we in the department have considered it opportune to continue with the processing of the decree, in order to open the phase of hearing and to be able to collect in writing and in an official way the proposals of the agents affected by this subjective right. We have notified the draft decree to the most important municipalities, to the outlaws and to Eudel. The notification has been sent to associations, to trade unions that had previously referred to the department, whether informally or verbally, their views and considerations on subjective law. In particular, we have addressed Elkartean, EAPN Euskadi, the European Network to Fight Poverty, the ESK union, SOS Racism, Argilan and Berrio-Otxoa. And, in any case, as it cannot be otherwise, if other agencies, agents or trade unions were contacted by the department, they would also be notified of the text to receive their contributions. In this regard, we have given a longer time frame than is legally set for them to submit their contributions, and we will not refuse to extend the time frame, if necessary, to improve it. This is a complex issue, and a longer period is needed to carry out an appropriate study of the text. Finally, I must say to you, Mr Itxaso, that from the department we reiterate that, in view of the current difficulties in integrating the two aid systems to facilitate access to rented housing, both systems remain in force. I've told you before. Therefore, not a single person is currently unprotected, and it is not the will of this Government to leave it unprotected. I'd miss more! Law is true that it is interpretable, but what is not interpretable afterwards is what the authorities and the procedures we have to go through for a decree to be finally passed. Therefore, persons who could access the supplementary housing benefit will gradually be added to the beneficiaries of the subjective right. And if we had put at cruising speed the approval of the decree, then today we would be in worse condition. Better take the time we need. It is necessary, I believe, a consensus to achieve an adequate integration of the two systems, but as long as this consensus is reached, it is the duty of this Government to develop this new subjective right, to provide us with greater legal certainty and security, so that the beneficiaries also know it, and without harming the people who are currently receiving the supplementary benefit or those who are going to be. But I also believe that without us skipping what legislation obliges us and mandates us to comply.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u125	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interlation, made by the members of the U.S.A.A.C.D.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.C.C.C.S.S.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.C.C.C.A.S.A.S.S.C.S.S.C.S.S.C.C.C.C.C.C.S.S.S.C.S.S.S.C.S.C.C.C.S.S.C.S.S.S.C.S.S.S. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u126	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Mr. Chief physician, you know better than you know that this group has introduced a thousand different enterprises to the remuneration of our rights as a citizen. And as soon as the law is over, we intend to end it as we began, defending our rights. You've often admitted that we need to improve our current system, and that, in our opinion, we're clearly considering a lot of gaps and privations. And the effects of these gaps, by chance, are generally reduced. The interaction we make to the desktop today is around one of those gaps. EH Collect has more than once expressed that he is ready to reflect deeply and calmly on the whole system. But the key of the explanation of today, and the question to which it is proposed, may be easily and easily solved without this profound reflection. We all know that 3/2015 Housing law recognizes and regulates the subjective right of appropriating the housing or property, for people who have no housing and have no financial means to buy their housing. We think that's a terrible advance to the people's rights. To demand this right, however, which we have observed, some conditions must be fulfilled; Protecting housing and being registered in a valid form in the Lifeland Scouts register. We believe that request is quite logical and that the problem is not in the law. The problem is, that to name the register mentioned, other conditions or criteria must be fulfilled, which regulate the Orders of October 15, 2012. The order of the then Housing Advisor, to which we are referring, of October 15, 2012, in its articles 9 and 10 except for the need to register in Etxebide. In other words, specific groups are left out, including people in vulnerable, sensitive and genuinely needy situations. On the one hand there are persons with a property that are immersed in a process of separation or divorce. And we are particularly concerned about women victims of sexist violence, who have to leave their homes urgently and, therefore, will not be able to register until they have a final divorce sentence. On the other hand, persons who, even if they own a home, are involved in eviction proceedings and who cannot register in such a register until that home is awarded judicially to their creditor. On the other hand, there are also persons with property who have been forced to leave their homes, albeit because of force majeure, including persons and families who have to leave their homes because of a natural disaster. And we are also very concerned about people who, even living in Araba, Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa, are in an irregular situation because they do not have the residence permit in force. That is to say, this particular group of people, who are already in a vulnerable situation, also have serious difficulties, when it is not impossible for them, in order to complete an inclusive process, simply by their origin or by their administrative situation. Hence those groups which have been observed by the 15th of October 2012, cannot receive any additional preparation for domestic expenses. We can't deny that, as we said before, when we're working around the scalding collectives, we have to make all our efforts to cancel those mistakes, gaps or restrictions. We hope the chief physician will share our meditations, and if not, he will have his reasons, and we shall hear them with great care. But you must know that on our side at least we will do everything that is in our power to carry this initiative forward. We are speaking of subjective rights, and it is clear that it is a great deal of fun that all the people are entitled to guarantee all the rights we have, in this case, a decent housing. On the other hand, as has been remarked, we are facing a serious problem. For we must consider that some persons or collective persons, who up to this day receive any additional preparation from the housing, have been left without preparation, when they are in an irregular state, for the case. And in this very House EH Bildu – you will also remember – through an initiative of your own has put into value the contributions that foreign people make to our society. It is clear and proven that they bring much more than they receive. And it should be remembered that most of the times what they receive are precisely, or cuts, or difficulties accessing the system, or campaigns to discredit them for the mere fact that they were born elsewhere. Let's see if we are able to make this collective receive less and less sticks and receive more rights. But the mention of a team doesn't mean we forget the others. And, as has been said before, by the 15th of October 2012, we can't forget the women or the victims of domestic injury. And we can't turn our backs on all these people. Finally, chief physician, we are again trying to show that we are speaking of rights, and that is, in our opinion, the most important thing. EHGG, at least, is clear that the right to be a decent apartment or to occupy it must be secured without dissemination. That's why we'd like to know what the funk will do to make sure he can make sure he hasn't that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u128	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, and the good afternoon again. Dear Mrs. Blanco, on the 24th of May 2013, was at the head of an hour's Eplegu and of the Polic Society, Juan Aburto answered a question similar to what you are asking me to-day, about the 15th of October 2012. The difference between now and then is what you've been talking about, Housing Law wasn't in force. First, I want to remind you, that this order of 2012 was admitted in the precedent law, and by which, besides the register of the housingrs, the houses of the official protection and the assignment of the doctrines of the housing are also regulated by adjudicion. You have referred, Mrs Blanco, to other collectives, although it is true that the most important collective is that of irregulars, that of foreigners, of whom I share who certainly contribute much more than some collectives want to tell us to take us away. Chapter II of the order regulating the registration and registration of applications, and in particular Articles 8, 9 and 10 thereof, provides for the requirements and exceptions thereto and the requirements of foreign persons. And, in relation to foreign persons, article 10 of the order we have cited determines the requirements for their access to the Register of Housing Claimants, the first of which is to be in possession of an existing residence permit. I shall refer to that later. As in May 2014, the Basque Autonomia Esquimia is in full and voluntary jurisdiction in the housing area. But when the development of our jurisdiction in the field of the dwelling-house affects those of immigration, we must necessarily be the Organic Law of the Common-wealth, in spite of the will and not willing. For by this organic law, besides the social integration of strangers, their rights and duties are regulated. And in this regard, I will give you a brief review of the legislation relating to the rights of foreign persons in the State and the development, to the worst, that has suffered in the last sixteen years. And I anticipate that I assume – and I suppose quite well – that our parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies will be in a position that, if the conditions are met and some of the cuts that have been introduced in the organic laws affecting the rights of foreigners and immigrants are amended, it will vote for it and appreciate it very positively. But, in the meantime, we will comply with the regulations that are in force and that we have an obligation to comply with. We are not, nor do we want, nor are we going to be disobedient in these matters. I believe that the institutional rigour and the rigour of legal compliance is a characteristic of this government and that I would like it to be of this Parliament, which I believe is genuinely so. In its first text, article 13 to which I refer, on housing rights, determined that foreign residents and those registered in the register were entitled to access the public housing aid system under the same conditions. In other words, persons who were in an irregular situation but were registered in the municipal register had the right to access the public system. It is important to note, however, that, in accordance with the provisions of the organic law itself, it was necessary to understand as an irregular situation the absence of an extension of stay, the absence of a residence permit or the expiry of authorization, provided that no further renewal had been requested in time. Only a few months later, in December 2000, article 10 was amended, omitting the reference to foreign persons who were registered in the municipal register. As a result, access to the public housing system was linked to obtaining temporary or long-term residence. We start with the cuts, serious cuts, that force the Housing Act that was passed in this Parliament. The last amendment took place in 2009, which equates the right to access to the public housing aid system for long-term foreign residents. Therefore, the conclusion to be drawn is that at the time of exercising the regulatory competence to regulate access to the public Basque housing system we have an obligation to respect the principles laid down in the said organic law, whether we like it or not; I say it by active and passive. And, therefore, the order regulating the registration of applicants for protected housing and endowment housing complies with the provisions of that law. It couldn't have been any other way. On the other hand, the decision to introduce such requirements was made as a result of the need to address the reference issue, which was causing practical problems in the territorial delegations of Housing. At this point I would also like to point out that in order to establish the new regulation, we had the specific advice of the Basque Service of Integration and Intercultural Co-existence Biltzen, a service then and now linked to the Directorate of Immigration of the Basque Government, which also, of course, certainly against its will, had to respect the organic law, which is a basic law. In addition, there was a contradiction: on the one hand, an official protection housing had to be awarded, the main feature of which is its use as a habitual domicile – as provided for in Decree 39/2008 on the Legal Regime of Public Protection Housing – and, on the other hand, such persons did not have a residence permit; a permit granted by another administration, in this case the State, as mentioned above. It must be said, however, that the Basque Government has gone beyond what is stipulated in the organic law, and it is indeed required for its registration to possess an existing residence permit, but it is possible for foreign persons with temporary authorization to register in the register of tenants of dwellings, not in the form of a purchase permit. And, therefore, the Order of 15 October 2012 grants greater protection, in compliance with the law of bases, of the organic law, to foreign persons with a temporary authorization, than that provided for in article 13 of the State organic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u129	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u130	Thanks again. Mr. Chief physician, at your first round, we're not clear whether you're sharing the diagnosis we've made on our first round. And it's very important for us, and you didn't say it outright. Do you share our reading? If you don't share it, it'll be very difficult to find a solution. That's for starters. We were talking, and you were also saying, that this group is precisely the largest, the one that is discriminated against, but we were talking about other groups, because they are also going through truly difficult or painful situations. We were talking about women victims of sexist violence, people and families who are in a process of eviction, people who have lost their homes because of a natural disaster (by fire, by flooding, by the collapse of a hillside, for example), and who are now discriminated against in terms of access to housing and in terms of receiving this very concrete economic benefit. Well, you say that that order cannot be changed, and you have made reference to organic laws, you have made reference to how the legislation is in the Spanish State, and you better than anyone else know that we and we do the same reading you do with respect to the laws in the Spanish State, but, of course, we and we are interested in knowing what we can do from here. And I don't think we can hide in that so we don't change the order. Because if the order – it is true that it was not in this legislature; it was in the previous legislature, it was Mr Patxi López who published that order – can be changed to make restrictions, why can't it be changed again to make those restrictions and cuts go away? That's what we're wondering. We therefore think that something can be done, and we certainly have competence in this matter in order to be able to put an end to that situation, which is only discriminating against groups that are already quite discriminated against on their own, is it not? Because that majority group, those people who are in an irregular administrative situation, also have to endure or face other really unfair situations. Let us remember that they have already seen their rights in access to health cut, that they have had to endure xenophobic speeches for electoral interests, as I said in the first round, and that even in the educational sphere they are experiencing stigmatizing situations. We have nothing more to do with the situation of some educational centres in Gasteiz. And the truth is that, in one way or another, the foreign people, and in particular those who are in this irregular administrative situation, are in the vanguard, and we cannot turn our backs on them. For us and we are people, Basques and Basques, who have come here to work out a future and to try to live in dignity. And if something as basic as a decent home cannot be guaranteed, then, of course, its inclusion is going to be really complicated. First, we would like to know – to see if you are a little more explicit on this turn – if you share that diagnosis that we and we make. If you share that this collective is actually living in a discriminatory situation. And then, rather than shielding ourselves in what is happening in the government in the Spanish state, to see if we are able to find a solution for this collective. And we have told you on many occasions: take advantage, Mr. Counsellor, that in this case you have us on your side and you have us on your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u132	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Blanco, as I have told you before, is the most remarkable difference between the situation we now live in, and the situation of 2013, that we have at present a law of housing which is now established, and that by this law the right of making a legal occupation of a decent and suitable house has been regulated. This subjective right can be satisfied in two ways: preferably, through the provision of a rental accommodation or accommodation, and subsidiaryly – and now we will make an important distinction – for when there is no adequate accommodation, through the economic benefit. I said that the order of 2012 we have stretched it. It was extended in its day also in what was possible, at least accepting the temporary residence to request housing for rent. What we can't do is ignore her. I don't protect myself in Spanish law, but when I have to comply, I have to comply, and that's it. Another thing is to show agreement or disagreement about them. But I'm going to make a very important distinction, which I don't know if we're still very conscious. The Inclusion Act 2008, which provided for supplementary housing benefits, did not provide for the subjective right to housing. The Housing Act recognizes the subjective right to housing and, alternatively, an economic housing benefit. What's the matter with us? That the laws of the State fully enter into force here, and therefore seriously affect us to a subjective right to housing, as they require, by mandate of organic law, temporary residence, or long-term or definitive. But it does not allow mere registration, and this must be understood by you, Mrs White. How you won't understand me! So, we're in a different situation. This new economic preparation is already given, and a subjective right must be developed in life with another sub-absorbed aid which is to be faced with the existing rental expense, namely, with additional support for the PCV housing. You'll join me, Mrs. Blanco, with the same purpose, that two subsidies that are intended to pay for rent don't make any sense. Still, they'll be there as long as we need them. More especially if the management of these two subsidies is made in two different systems, and also if the two benefited collectives differ. It is the intention of the Department of Police and Employment and Society, and it is necessary, to integrate these two systems, and facilitate the introduction of a rental life to those who have the greatest need of housing. However, as I have just explained to Mr. Iso, even in this case the constituency will be necessary. A consensus, yes, Mrs. Blanco, a system of social associations and a review of the Housing Act. It's only possible to integrate both help with changes in the rules of these two systems without leaving anyone outside the system. However, this inquiry that you have made here today, in my opinion, should have been carried out not now, but also – and I have told Mr Itxaso – during the processing of the Housing Act. You have to recognize me. We will work together to build consensus, but it would have been good to get it before. Now perhaps it is possible, but you have to admit that it is now more complicated, because now perhaps we have to amend laws that, if they hadn't been passed that way, we wouldn't have these problems now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u133	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula Group of Education, Language Policy, and Cultural Division, about the Eucadicus document report and the project of the file system." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The department headed by Mrs Uriarte has left its bills for the end of the legislature. And that is a criticism, but it is not what we want to do now or what we want to be answered now. The Euskadi documentary heritage and archival system bill is being seen in this House. I do not know whether Mrs Uriarte has seen the experts' appearances or told them, but the appearances before the Basque Parliament's Committee on Culture in connection with the processing of this draft law on documentary heritage and the Euskadi archival system have concluded that this would not be the law that Euskadi needs for the management of these important subjects. That is to say, the presence in committee of certain experts and collectives who group them has put on the table and provided data on the shortcomings, contradictions and shortcomings of this bill, which in our view transcend the possibility of being completed in an analysis of amendments or in a paper work, also mainly for time. It's a faulty project from the base. The experts who informed us in committee and took it out in committee have found this out. In other words, there are several shortcomings. And I ask you: how do you rate the negative opinion of the group of experts on the Euskadi documentary heritage and archives bill?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u135	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u136	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Mr Barrio, everything in this life is likely to improve, but, on the basis of that premise, let me tell you that the Basque Government has referred to this House the most appropriate bill to ensure the management and preservation of the documentary heritage of Euskadi and the access of citizens to it, and also in time. A draft law whose drafting has been guided by three guiding principles: the search for maximum efficiency in the normative field; scrupulous respect for the division of jurisdiction with the State, the historical territories and the local administration; and cooperation in the drafting process. I want to emphasise this last point, cooperation. Like I said, we've been working on the line for text preparation. There have been a number of meetings with the sector and various contributions. For we have received more than 200 commissions from the organizations and associations. These received accounts have been very interesting, and, of course, we've noticed the last text we could write. In fact, thanks to these contributions, we've managed to enrich the text. Mr Barrio, all the contributions, reflections and suggestions are positive, and the enriching debate, provided it is done with intent to add. The important thing is that the text resulting from this whole process responds to the current reality and needs, and we understand that it does, at least in our area of competence. The Euskadi Documentary Heritage and Archives Bill has three main objectives: to protect, preserve and disseminate the Euskadi Documentary Heritage; to articulate the Euskadi Archives System; and to promote access by citizens to documentation. These are the objectives of the law, which I sincerely consider to be achieved through the proposed article.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u138	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor. We have been told that this bill is not the right one for documentary heritage and the archival system. And we have been told by the top experts in this country in relation to the archival and documentary heritage system. We have been told by members of the association that brings together archivists, librarians and documentalists of public institutions fundamentally and privately in this country, responsible for provincial historical archives. We have been told by officials of the Basque Government for more than thirty-five years in archives, libraries and documentation. And they told us that if they could and depended on them they would withdraw the law. We've been told. And not only have they told us (because you can say it's an opinion): they have explained it to us, counselor. They've explained it to us in detail and clearly. I was going to ask him in this second round if he had intended to withdraw the law. Everything indicates no. But if you do not think so, we will have to help you, because it is quite clear, Counsellor, that this bill has not matured enough. And they also told us and explained it to us. That is, if it is a technical issue, it deserves training in relation to archives and documentary heritage, we have realized..., but it is that the negative aspects that have explained to us affect everything: negative aspects with regard to its object; negative aspects with regard to titles in which the law is divided, by contradictions; negative aspects with regard to the scope of application of the law (does not clarify the current picture); negative aspects with regard to documents and documentary heritage, with regard to documents and documentary management, with regard to the documentary heritage of private ownership, with regard to instruments, with regard to archival systems and coordination, with regard to electronic administration, with regard to the materialization of access and its relationship with the Law on Transparency and the Law on Local Entities. And then they gave us proposals. That is, consider the proposals, and withdraw this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u139	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u140	Mr. Barrius, the transition of the laws has its course, so we will let him go on his way. It is true that there are certain particular aspects of the law, that there are different opinions and points of view. This week, as you have said, we have been able to discuss the differences. These differences are principally founded on these three points. The first point is that the administrative function of archives is connected with the capacity of administration. In this sense, it must be said that this function cannot and ought not to be regulated by this law, because it transcends the sphere of prerogative. The second aspect relates to the permanent value of documentary heritage. In that sense, I must say that, contrary to what has been transmitted in some of the appearances, I understand that because it is a misinterpretation of the bill, it offers a greater guarantee of the documentary heritage and guarantees access to it. And finally, the file system. The profound theme, which is planned around the archives system, is very simple. The question is to promote a divisional portion of multiple members to a better co-ordination. Even if all of us are lost in fun, forts and private archives, we'll all win. This example, in our opinion, is positive to all. That's how we let the sector know. They also have in their hand, as I have already told you, to be able to call to appear, also in commission, both to myself and to the vice-counsel, so that they can give the appropriate explanations of the law. You're in your right! In any case, Mr Barrio, as you know, there are also many points of consensus. For example, ALDEE also stressed in his appearance the will to coordinate and direct the policy, the strengthening of the concept of documentary heritage, the sanctioning regime, the will to promote access... These are aspects that the association noted as positive of the law. In short, Mr Barrio, I believe that you have a good bill in your hands and a good opportunity for Euskadi, with the contributions and improvements that can still be made, to finally count on the documentary heritage law and archival system that he deserves and needs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the company of Patxi Eleola AEspeitia, a member of the United States and of the political department of the region, between Donostya and the Coasts of Urola, about the experiments of Eukot's Penitentiane. " Mr. Ella.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u142	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, good noon, chief physician, and fellow members of the law. We're back here on the Gaut thing. It could be boring for some, but not for us. And why do we come back to the same subject today? Because it's the last-control plone and we have our last chance to make our request through a question. I'll do a bit of chronology, too, short. You remember, in 2014, he was ahead of me by Jesús Wides, and he was accepted. And so it was said: "Hacer studios en el menor tempore possible" with fun and all of them. The next step was that the council and the council of Zuma and the town of Zhumia knew it well, because I introduced the motation to them in the words of the country, but, adding, "The best possible way, for the summer of 2014, to serve the Gaut." We went on, I came here, and, as there was still no answer, we made an interpelation. In this connexion we explained the benefit of this service, and the use of those who dwell about it. We told them all about it. So I introduced a motion to the Gaitnas on a schedule to start the service. He also introduced another medium to this lot of government, and the EH Collectors. And just now the middle-class one said: "The U.S.P.S.P.P.P.P.P. and Gimp. In conjunction with the Gimpian Transport Authority, let them examine it as briefly as possible in the passage of Donstrosia and Urola, the necessity of the moving of the citizens in the corridor of the coasts of the coasts, and the proper means of answering them." Well, considering this, and considering that he says "the shortest possible and the shortest time" to the argument, and that from the 21st of April to the 3rd of June, 43 days have already passed, our question goes: What steps has your department taken to follow the order given by this legislature, or at what period do you expect it to be executed? And this is my question, and this morning I will give you the same opportunity that they have given to the President: answer as far as you please and in a tone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Lady Oregi, turn to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u144	Good morning, everyone. Yes, it is the will of the division I direct to follow what has been agreed on in this legislature, and to work together with the Giant Fordala of Gipus, in order to answer to the needs of the movable necessities of the corridor of which we speak. In fact, this organization has jurisdiction of the transport of travellers on the road, and this government has the right to the railway transport, as you know. You will understand, all operators, the railway or the highway, would like to give the alleged request the best possible answer, even if they wish to be the default of their bearable public service. Nevertheless, according to the decision made on this legislature, we will send the Gipuese Transport Authority with the use of the Asanada on June the 9th. That way, there'll be a team between the fun and the 'Rodal Dreams' going to start. There, the Euskot will have a delegation and will consult the request for such a service as Gaut's. Also, I inform you that the Giupian Transport Authority is working on the planning plan for the Gypuz transport. Consider that this was a request made by the local representatives. This may be considered as a co-worker in the domestic rights of all the Giupicians and guitars, in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u146	Thanks again. I haven't been here long, but I've noticed that things here are moving at different speeds, both the themes of the train and the other topics. The affairs which the Government presents must be made with haste, and those of others with ease or tranquillity; for, I tell you, it is 43 days since the decision was made. You say you'll send it to the table on June 9th. That gives me about 52 days. During this time the President will present elections, and in the meantime you won't set up an ordinary service, because if you spend two months renting it up to the others, both to the wrong and the other operators, what can we expect? Do you ask the others in the same way? It's up to you to fix this thing, and it's up to you to give the right answer to this request before the election's over. We don't agree with what we said, or at least not with pleasure.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u148	Yes, at least 8 years ago, Euscot offers night services both during weekends and even if he has any events. So between Lastra and Hendaia (topo) the signal index is 43%,1; Deva-Billa index is 34%; between Bilbao-Bermae, covering index %25; Birder, covering index 18.01. In the corridor you're talking about, please remember, I've explained it to you at other times-and the show index is 10%. And in that corridor there hasn't been any night service either. 2009 and 2012. Even in years. There were, on the other hand, the others mentioned. But in that period the men of Eukot's hour didn't notice the necessity you mention in your question. Of course, the frequency of this part of the path shown by Eukoten works for the improvement. From this Illustol, for instance, I will show you from this year's September that the frequency of tram service between the Ebar-Eltoibar will increase during unconsumed hours. That's right, because the Eukotens understands that there's a valid request that can be tolerated by a railroad response in this station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-03.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Next, against capital punishment, I will read the institutional expression for Pablo's solidarity with Ibar. "The legislature of Europe, the supreme organ of the delegation of the Basque People, has always had a unanimous engagement against capital punishment and against it in all the countries of the world, because it thinks that the laws of punishment ought to serve to render men socialized, and that the death penalty is a brutal action, which annihilates the value of human life, and is a symbol of terror, cruelty, and primitiveism. "He has known in the Euskikak all these obscure sects of punishment which is almost contemptible, contemptible, and inaccessible; Paco and Pablo Ibar were sentenced to death, and their families have fought terribly, and society has helped them to fight against this unjust punishment. "On February 4, 2016, the Florida Supreme Court decided to set aside Ibar's guilt and therefore his death sentence, for not relying on the outcome of the trial in which Ibar received such cruel, inhuman and degrading conviction, because he did not enjoy his constitutionally recognized right to an effective defence. On 16 May 2016, the Florida Supreme Court dismissed the appeal filed in time and form by the State of Florida, and the decision of 4 February 2016 became final. "The Basque Parliament welcomes these latest developments, but cannot help but note that Pablo Ibar is now facing a new trial in which he can face another death sentence. The Basque Parliament also recalls that the death penalty is no longer included in our legal system. "According to the above, the Basque Parliament agrees to the following institutional declaration: "Bat. The Basque Parliament rejects the death penalty everywhere and under any circumstances, as it is a form of discriminatory, inhuman, irrevocable and a form of violative punishment of human rights, and is ratified in the rejection of the death penalty, in line with the majority feeling of Basque society that it has publicly and continuously expressed its defence of the right to life and respect for all fundamental human rights. "Bill. The Basque Parliament recalls that, according to international declarations of human rights, criminal laws should serve to reintegrate those who commit crimes into society and not just as punishment. "Hiru. The Basque Parliament stands in favour of the abolitionist struggle of millions of people in the world and applauds the work of national and international organizations, non-governmental associations and human rights activists in favour of the disappearance of the death penalty in all countries, and in any case in favour of the implementation of the decisions of the international bodies of moratorium on executions; this is in the common belief that the death penalty violates the fundamental right to life of all persons. "Four. The Basque parliament expresses its solidarity with Pablo Ibar and his family for the new judicial cause which has begun, where it is to be supported that he has the right to be a fair judge with legal and legal sanctions. "Five. The Basque Parliament calls the Basque People in prison where Pablo Ibar will be allowed to send letters of protection to the Basque People. The prison address will be reported on the website of the Society against the Death Penitentiary of Pablo Ibar, www.pabblobar.com, as soon as we meet him. "Six. The European law calls the Spanish Government to defend the basic rights of life of the citizens who have the Spanish nationality, and to support the legal, legal, economic, and diplomatic assistance of the people who are punished with death. And in this case, to ensure that Pablo Ibarri, because of the appeal to the Supreme Court of Florida, he will be spending a great deal. "Seven. The Basque parliament demands to confirm the death penalty throughout the world, and, in this case, to be an efficient defense for organisms and institutions, such as the match of the Society against the Death of Pablo I Bar, request, and need to respond as far as possible to the funds of the Esquily Ernomy. "Eight. This institutional statement will be sent by the Basque parliament to the Aquel, the People's Defendor, the Society against the Death of Pablo of the Ibar, and to Mr. Ibar, where he is imprisoned, and the latter will declare our support and solidarity." Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two and twenty-one in the afternoon.
